KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
ORDINANCE # 2019- 07—0 |
Jui 22,2019
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING TITLE 12 AND AMENDING CHAPTER 19.94 OF THE
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP MUNICIPAL CODE, TO ENACT A “CODE
ENFORCEMENT AND COMMUNITY ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM” AND TO
UPDATE THE CIVIL PENALTIES FOR CODE VIOLATIONS
WHEREAS, the current remedies available for ordinance enforcement rely heavily on fines
and court action to resolve violations of the Metro Township Code; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §10-2a-414(3), the Metro Township’s code
enforcement provisions are based on Salt Lake County’s ordinances and were enacted pursuant to
Title 17, which pertains to counties, as opposed to Title 10, which governs municipalities; and
WHEREAS, resolving code enforcement actions through the current enforcement process
is often costly, can take years to resolve, and can allow violations to exist unabated for significant
periods to time, forcing citizens to endure an unsightly and unhealthy living environment; and
WHEREAS, fines and penalties can accrue on a daily basis while violations of the Metro
| Township Code await resolution in court, and can result in substantial, cumulative fines for
relatively minor violations; and
WHEREAS, other municipalities in Utah utilize a combination of administrative, civil, and
. criminal remedies to bring about compliance with municipal ordinances, and such an approach can
bring about compliance in a reasonable amount of time and in a more cost-effective manner; and
WHEREAS, the Metro Township Planning and Zoning Commission (“Commission”) held
a public hearing on June 10, 2019, to review and take public comment on: (1) the proposed
adoption of a new, more comprehensive code enforcement program (the “Program’’) that is based
on Title 10 of the Utah Code and would be set forth in Title 12 of the Metro Township Code; and
(2) amendments to Chapter 19.94 of the Kearns Metro Township Code to update and revise the
civil penalties imposed on code violations and to make conforming edits to enhance the code
enforcement process; and
WHEREAS, after holding the public hearing on June 10, 2019, the Commission
recommended the adoption of the Program and the amendments of Chapter 19.94; and
WHEREAS, the Metro Township staff and attorney have reviewed the Program and the
proposed changes to Chapter 19.94; and
WHEREAS, the Council held a public hearing on Kearns to take public comment on the
Program and the proposed changes to Chapter 19.94 pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-205; and
1

WHEREAS, the Council is authorized to enact the Program and the amendments to
Chapter 19.94 pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §§ 10-3-702 — 703.7, 10-3-716, 10-8-60, and 10-11-1,
et seq., among other applicable laws and authorities;

WHEREAS, after considering public comment on the matter and the Commission’s
recommendation, the Council does hereby determine that it is in the best interests of the health,
safety, and welfare of the citizens of the Kearns Metro Township to adopt immediately the Program
and to amend immediately Chapter 19.94 to facilitate compliance with municipal ordinances and
to improve the appearance of the community.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Kearns Metro Township Council that:

Section 1. Enactment. Title 12 of the Kearns Metro Township Code, as set forth in
Exhibit A, is hereby enacted.

Section 2. | Amendment. Chapter 19.94 of the Kearns Metro Township Code is revised
pursuant to the changes set forth in Exhibit B.

Section 2. Repealer. Any provision of the Kearns Metro Township Code found to be
in conflict with this ordinance is hereby repealed.

Section 3. Effective Date. This ordinance will go into effect immediately after its
posting pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-711(1)(b)(ii) and Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-712.

Kelly Bush, Mayor
ATTEST:

) ) C)
Sherrie Swensen
Salt Lake County Clerk
Kearns Metro Township Recorder
VOTING
Council Member Brown voting yes
Council Member Bush voting yes
Council Member Peterson voting yes
Council Member Schaeffer voting yes
Council Member Snow voting yes

2

EXHIBIT A
Title 12 — Code Enforcement and Community Preservation

TITLE 12 —- CODE ENFORCEMENT AND COMMUNITY
PRESERVATION
CHAPTER 12.1 - GENERAL
12.1.010 SHORT TITLE.
This Title shall be known as the “Code Enforcement and Community Preservation Program.” This
Chapter shall also be known as Chapter 12.1, of the Kearns Metro Township Municipal Code. It
| may be cited and pleaded under either designation.
12.1.020 AUTHORITY.
| The Metro Township promulgates this Ordinance pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §§ 10-3-702— 703.7;
10-3-716; 10-8-60; 10-11-1, et seq.; 76-10-801, et seq.; and any other applicable law or successor
statute(s).
12.1.030 DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
The Kearns Metro Township Metro Township finds that the enforcement of its Municipal Code
and applicable state codes throughout the municipality is an important public service. Code
enforcement and abatement are vital to the protection of the public's health, safety, and quality of
life. The Council recognizes that enforcement starts with the drafting of precise regulations that
can be effectively applied in administrative code enforcement hearings and judicial proceedings.
The Council further finds that a comprehensive code enforcement system that uses a combination
of judicial and administrative remedies is critical to gain compliance with these regulations in a
manner that is fair and equitable to the Metro Township and its citizens. Failure to comply with an
administrative code enforcement action may require the Metro Township Attorney to file a judicial
action to gain compliance.
12.1.040 SCOPE.
The provisions of this Title may be applied to all violations of the Kearns Metro Township Code.
It has been designed as an additional remedy for the Metro Township to use in achieving
compliance of its ordinances.
12.1.050 EXISTING ORDINANCES AND LAWS CONTINUED.
The provisions of this Title do not invalidate any other title or ordinance but shall be read in
conjunction with those titles and ordinances as an additional remedy available for the enforcement
of those ordinances together with any and all other applicable laws. If there is a conflict between
this Title and another provision of the Metro Township Code, this Title shall control.
12.1.060 CRIMINAL PROSECUTION RIGHT.
The Metro Township has sole discretion in deciding whether to file a civil or criminal case for the
violation of any of its ordinances. The Metro Township may choose to file both, or one, or the
]

other. The enactment of the administrative remedies set forth in this Title shall in no way interfere
with the Metro Township’s right to prosecute ordinance violations as criminal offenses in a court
of law. The Metro Township may use any of the remedies available under the law in both civil and
criminal prosecution. If the Metro Township chooses to file both civil and criminal charges for the
same day of violation, no civil penalties may be assessed, but all other remedies will be available.
12.1.070 EFFECT OF HEADINGS.
Title, chapter, part and section headings contained herein shall not be deemed to govern, limit,
modify, or in any manner affect the scope, meaning, or intent of the provisions of any title, chapter,
part, or section hereof.
12.1.080 VALIDITY OF TITLE — SEVERABILITY.
If any chapter, part, section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, portion, or provision of this Title
is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Title. The
Council hereby declares that it would have adopted this Title and chapter, part, section, subsection,
sentence, clause, phrase, portion, or provision thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, clauses, phrases, portions, or provisions be declared invalid or
unconstitutional. This Section shall apply to all amendments heretofore or hereafter made to this
Title.
12.1.090 NO MANDATORY DUTY — CIVIL LIABILITY.
It is the intent of the Council that in establishing performance standards or establishing an
obligation to act by a Metro Township officer, employee, or designee, these standards shall not
be construed as creating a mandatory duty for purposes of tort liability if the officer, employee, or
designee fails to perform his or her directed duty or duties.
12.1.100 GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION OF ORDINANCES.
For purposes of this Title:
(1) Any gender includes the other gender(s).
(2) “Shall” is mandatory; “may” is permissive.
(3) The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the singular.
(4) Words used in the present tense include the past and future tense, and vice versa.
(5) Words and phrases used in this Title, and not specifically defined, shall be construed

according to the context and approved usage of the language.

2

12.1.110 DEFINITIONS APPLICABLE TO TITLE GENERALLY.

The following words and phrases, whenever used in this Title, shall be constructed as defined in

this section, unless a different meaning is specifically defined elsewhere in this Title and

specifically stated to apply:

(1) “Abate” or “Abatement” means any action the Metro Township may take on public or private
property and any adjacent property as may be necessary to remove or alleviate a violation,
including, but not limited to, demolition, removal, repair, boarding, and securing or
replacement of property.

(2) “Administrative Code Enforcement Order” means an order issued by an Administrative Law

Judge. The order may include an order to abate the violation, pay civil penalties and
administrative costs, or take any other action as authorized or required by this Title and
applicable state codes.

(3) “Administrative Law Judge” or “hearing officer” means the position established by the
Kearns Metro Township § Code 1.16 “Administrative Hearing.”

(4) “Animal Control Administrator” means the supervisor of the Animal Control Division,
established in the Kearns Metro Township § Code 8.1.

(5) “Chief Building Inspector” means the official authorized and responsible for planning,
directing, and managing the building inspection activities within the Metro Township.

(6) “Council” means the Kearns Metro Township Council.

(7) “Code Enforcement Lien” means a lien recorded to collect outstanding civil penalties,
administrative fees, and costs.

(8) “Code Enforcement Performance Bond” means a bond posted by a responsible person to
ensure compliance with the Metro Township Code, applicable state titles, a judicial action,
or an administrative code enforcement order.

(9) “County” means Salt Lake County, Utah.

(10) “Department” means the Metro Township’s Planning and Development Services
Department, or its designee.

(11) “Director” means the director of the Metro Township’s Planning and Development Services
Department or his/her authorized agent(s) or any other person/entity and their authorized
agent(s) that the Metro Township has authorized to provide code enforcement services.

(12) “Enforcement Official” means any person authorized to enforce violations of the Metro
Township Code or applicable state codes.

(13) “Financial Institution” means any person that holds a recorded mortgage or deed of trust on
a property.

3

(14) “Fire Department” means the applicable entity that is authorized and responsible for
providing fire and emergency services to the Metro Township.

(15) “Good Cause” means incapacitating illness; death; lack of proper notice; unavailability due
to unavoidable, unpreventable, or extenuating emergency or circumstance; if a required act
causes an imminent and irreparable injury; and acts of nature adverse to performing required
acts.

(16) “Imminent Life Safety Hazard” means any condition that creates a present, extreme, and
immediate danger to life, property, health, or public safety.

(17) “Kearns Metro Township,” means the Kearns Metro Township, a municipal corporation
under state law. May also be referred to “the Metro Township” and/or “the Municipality”
pursuant to Utah Code § 68-3-12.5(6).

(18) “Legal Interest” means any interest that is represented by a document, such as a deed of trust,
quitclaim deed, mortgage, judgment lien, tax or assessment lien, mechanic's lien, or other
similar instrument that is recorded with the County Recorder.

(19) “Metro Township” or “Municipality” means the area within the territorial municipal limits
of the Kearns Metro Township, and such territory outside of this Metro Township over which
the Kearns Metro Township has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any constitutional or
incorporation provisions or any law.

(20) “Minor violation” means nuisance violations, as defined in state law and by Utah State
Courts, to include:

a. Land uses that do not conform to existing zoning of the property;

b. Unauthorized collections of motor vehicles that are unlicensed, unregistered, and/or
inoperable;

c. Trash, litter, itlegal dumping, and weeds;

d. Nuisance noise and lighting;

e. Illegal advertising; and

f. The unauthorized use of public streets and sidewalks that stem from news racks,
merchandise displays, mobile food vending, and other such illegal uses.

(21) “Notice of Compliance” means a document issued by the Metro Township, representing that
a property complies with the requirements outlined in the notice of violation.

(22) “Notice of Satisfaction” means a document or form approved by the Administrative Law
Judge or his or her designee, which indicates that all outstanding civil penalties and costs
have been either paid in full, or that the Metro Township has negotiated an agreed amount,
or that a subsequent administrative or judicial decision has resolved the outstanding debt. In
addition to the satisfaction of the financial debt, the property must also be in compliance with
the requirements outlined in the notice of violation.

4

(23) “Notice of Violation” means a written notice prepared by an enforcement official that
informs a responsible person of code violations and orders them to take certain steps to
correct the violations.

(24) “Oath” includes affirmations and oaths.

(25) “Person” means any natural person, firm, joint venture, joint stock company, partnership,
association, club, company, corporation, business trust, organization, or the manager, lessee,
agent, sergeant, officer, or employee of any of them, or any other entity that is recognized by
law as the subject of rights or duties.

|
| (26) “Program” means the Code Enforcement and Community Enhancement Program authorized
under this Title.

(27) “Property Owner” means the record owner of real property based on the county assessor's
records.

(28) “Public Nuisance” means any condition caused, maintained, or permitted to exist that
constitutes a threat to the public's health, safety, and welfare, or that significantly obstructs,
injures, or interferes with the reasonable or free use of property in a neighborhood or
community or by any considerable number of persons. A public nuisance also has the same
meaning as set forth in the Utah Code Annotated.

(29) “Responsible Person” means a person who has charge, care, or control of any premises,
dwelling, or dwelling unit as the legal or equitable owner, agent of the owner, lessee, or as
an executor, administrator, trustee or guardian of the estate of the owner. In all cases, the
person with legal title to any premises, dwelling, or dwelling unit shall be considered a
responsible person, with or without accompanying actual possession thereof.

(30) “Treasurer” means the Kearns Metro Township Treasurer as designated pursuant to Utah
Code Ann. § 10-3c-203.

(31) “Written” includes handwritten, typewritten, photocopied, computer printed, or facsimile.

12.1.111 ACTS INCLUDE CAUSING, AIDING, AND ABETTING.

Whenever any act or omission is made unlawful in this Title, it shall include causing, permitting,

aiding, or abetting such act or omission.

12.1.200 PART 2 — SERVICE REQUIREMENTS.

12.1.210 SERVICE OF PROCESS.

(1) Whenever service is required to be given under this Title, service shall be made in accordance
with Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-2 or any applicable successor statute(s), unless another form
of service is required by law.

(2) Ifservice complies with the requirements of this Section, it shall be deemed a valid service
even if a party claims not to have received the service and it shall not affect the validity of

5

any proceedings taken under this Title.
(3) The failure to serve all responsible person(s) shall not affect the validity of any proceedings.
12.1.220 CONSTRUCTIVE NOTICE OF RECORDED DOCUMENTS.
Whenever a document is recorded with the County recorder as authorized or required by this Title
or applicable state codes, recordation shall provide constructive notice of the information
contained in the recorded documents.
12.1.300 PART 3 —- GENERAL AUTHORITY AND OFFENSES.
12.1.310 GENERAL ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
Whenever the Director or enforcement official finds that a violation of the Metro Township Code
or applicable state codes has occurred or continues to exist, the appropriate administrative
enforcement procedure may be used as outlined in this Title. The Director or any designated
enforcement official has the authority and power necessary to gain compliance with the provisions
of the Metro Township Code and applicable state codes. These powers include the power to issue
notices of violation and administrative citations, inspect public and private property, abate public
and private property, and use whatever judicial and administrative remedies are available under
the Metro Township Code or applicable state codes.
12.1.320 ADOPTION OF POLICY AND PROCEDURES.
The Administrative Law Judge is authorized to develop policies and procedures relating to the
hearing procedures, scope of hearings, subpoena powers, and other matters relating to the Program.
12.1.330 AUTHORITY TO INSPECT.
The Director or any designated enforcement official is authorized to enter upon any property or
premises to ascertain whether the provisions of the Metro Township Code or applicable state codes
are being obeyed and to make any examinations and surveys as may be necessary in the
performance of the enforcement duties. Provided that the Director or any designated enforcement
official may not enter a gated backyard without probable cause that a violation exists. This may
include the taking of photographs, samples, or other physical evidence. All inspections, entries,
examinations, and surveys shall be done in a reasonable manner based upon cause. If the
responsible person refuses to allow the enforcement official to enter the property, the enforcement
official shall obtain a search warrant.
12.1.340 POWER TO ARREST.
The Director or any designated enforcement official is authorized to issue a misdemeanor citation
or administrative citation whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the person has
committed a violation of the Metro Township Code or applicable state codes in the enforcement
official's presence.
6

12.1.350 FALSE INFORMATION OR REFUSAL PROHIBITED.

It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully make a false statement or refuse to give his or her

name or address with intent to deceive or interfere with a duly authorized Metro Township official

or agent, including but not limited to the Director any authorized enforcement officials, when in
the performance of his or her official duties under the provisions of this Title. A violation of this

Section is a class B misdemeanor.

12.1.360 FAILURE TO OBEY A SUBPOENA.

It is unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to obey a subpoena issued for an administrative code

enforcement hearing. Failure to obey a subpoena constitutes contempt and is a class B

misdemeanor.

CHAPTER 12.2 - ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT
PROCEDURES

12.2.010 AUTHORITY.

Any condition caused, maintained, or permitted to exist in violation of any provisions of the Metro

Township Code or applicable state codes that constitutes a violation may be abated by the Metro

Township pursuant to the procedures set forth in this Chapter.

12.2.020 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.

(1) Whenever the Director or any designated enforcement official determines that a violation of
the Metro Township Code or applicable state codes has occurred or continues to exist, the
Director or enforcement official will issue a notice of violation to a responsible person. The
notice of violation shall include the following information and shall comply with Utah Code
§ 10-11-2 or the applicable successor statute(s):

a. Name of the property owner of record according to the records of the County Recorder;

b. Street address of violation;

c. Nature and results of the examination and investigation conducted;

d. Date and approximate time the violation was observed;

e. All code sections violated and description of condition of the property that violates the
applicable codes;

f. A statement explaining the type of remedial action required to permanently correct
outstanding violations, which may include corrections, repairs, demolition, removal,
eradication, destruction, or other appropriate action;

g. A specific date for the responsible party to correct the violations listed in the notice of
violation, which date shall be at least ten days from the date of service unless the Director

7

determines that the violation requires emergency abatement under Section 12.2.200;

h. Explanation of the consequences should the responsible person fail to comply with the
terms and deadlines as prescribed in the notice of violation, which may include, but is
not limited to, criminal prosecution; civil penalties; revocation of permits; recordation of
the notice of violation; withholding of future municipal permits; abatement of the
violation by the Metro Township and re-payment to the Metro Township for the costs of
the abatement; other costs incurred by the Metro Township; administrative fees; and any
other legal remedies;

i. That civil penalties will begin to accrue immediately on expiration of the date to correct
violations;

j. The amount of the civil penalty on each violation and that the penalty will accrue daily
until the property is brought into compliance;

k. That only one notice of violation is required for any 12-month period, and that civil
penalties begin immediately upon any subsequent violations of the notice. The
responsible person may request a hearing on the renewed violations by following the
same procedure as provided for the original notice;

1. Procedures to appeal the notice and request a hearing as provided in Section 12.2.530,
and consequences for failure to request one; and

m. Procedures to request an inspection after the violation has been abated pursuant to
Section 12.2.040.

(2) The notice of violation shall be served by one of the methods of service listed in Section
12.1.210 of this Title.

(3) More than one notice of violation may be issued against the same responsible person, if it
encompasses different dates, or different violations.

12.2.030 FAILURE TO BRING PROPERTY INTO COMPLIANCE.

(1) Ifaresponsible person fails to bring a violation into compliance within the compliance period
specified in the notice of violation, civil penalties shall be owed to the Metro Township for
each and every subsequent day of violation.

(2) Failure to comply with the notice of violation is a Class C misdemeanor.

12.2.040 INSPECTIONS.

It shall be the duty of the responsible person served with a notice of violation to request in writing

an inspection when his or her property has been brought into compliance. It is prima facie evidence

that the violation remains on the property if no inspection is requested. Civil penalties accumulate
daily until the property has been inspected and a notice of compliance is issued. Re-inspection fees
shall be assessed if more than one inspection is necessary.

8

12.2.200 PART 2 —- EMERGENCY ABATEMENT

12.2.210 AUTHORITY.

(1) Whenever the Director determines that an imminent life safety hazard exists that requires
immediate correction or elimination, the Director may exercise the following powers without
prior notice to the responsible person:

a. Order the immediate vacation of any tenants, and prohibit occupancy or entry until all
repairs are completed, provided that an order prohibiting entry shall specify how entry is
to be made to mitigate damage, complete repairs, retrieve personal property, or for any

other purpose, if any, during the abatement process.

b. Post the premises as unsafe, substandard, or dangerous;

c. Board, fence, or secure the building or site;

d. Raze and grade that portion of the building or site to prevent further collapse, and remove
any hazard to the general public;

e. Make any minimal emergency repairs as necessary to eliminate any imminent life safety
hazard; or

f. Take any other action appropriate to eliminate the emergency.

(2) The Director and his or her agents have the authority, based on cause, to enter the property
without a search warrant or court order to accomplish the above listed acts to abate the safety
hazard.

(3) The responsible person shall be liable for all costs associated with the abatement of the life
safety hazard. Costs may be recovered pursuant to this Title.

12.2.220 PROCEDURES.

(1) The Director shall pursue only the minimum level of correction or abatement as necessary to
eliminate the immediacy of the hazard. Costs incurred by the Metro Township during the
emergency abatement process shall be assessed and recovered against the responsible person
through the procedures outlined in Chapter 12.3 of this Title regarding “Administrative and
Judicial Remedies” section.

(2) The Director may also pursue any other valid and legal administrative or judicial remedy to
abate any remaining violations.

12.2.230 NOTICE OF EMERGENCY ABATEMENT.

After an emergency abatement, the Metro Township shall notify the owner or responsible person

of the abatement action taken in writing. This notice shall be served within ten days of completion

9

of the abatement and will describe in reasonable detail the abatement actions taken.

12.2.300 PART 3 —- DEMOLITIONS

12.2.310 AUTHORITY.

Whenever the Director determines that a property or building requires demolition, he or she may

demolish or remove the offending structure, or exercise any or all of the powers listed in Section

12.2.210 once appropriate notice has been given to a responsible person pursuant to the Uniform

Abatement of Dangerous Buildings Code or Uniform Fire Codes as required under state law,
| provided that the notice shall include a written description of the Director’s findings explaining

the need for the demolition and citations to the applicable ordinances or laws authorizing the
demolition. The responsible person shall be liable for all costs associated with the demolition.

Costs may be recovered pursuant to this Title.

12.2.320 PROCEDURES.

Once the Director has determined that the Metro Township Chief Building Inspector or the Fire

Department has complied with all of the notice requirements of the applicable laws, the property

will be demolished. Other applicable remedies may also be pursued.

12.2.400 PART 4— ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS

12.2.410 DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.

The Council finds that there is a need for an alternative method of enforcement for minor violations

of the Metro Township Code and applicable state codes. The Council further finds that an

appropriate method of enforcement is an administrative citation program,

The procedures established in this Part shall be in addition to criminal, civil, or any other legal

remedy established by law that may be pursued to address violations of the Metro Township Code

or applicable state codes.

12.2.420 AUTHORITY.

(1) Any person violating any minor provision of the Metro Township Code or applicable state
codes may be issued an administrative citation by an enforcement official as provided in this
Part.

(2) A civil penalty shall be assessed by means of an administrative citation issued by the
enforcement official, and shall be payable directly to the Metro Township Treasurer's Office,
or other offices designated to receive payment on behalf of the Metro Township.

(3) Penalties assessed by means of an administrative citation shall be collected in accordance
with the procedures specified in the remedies section of this Title.

10

12-2-403. PROCEDURES.

(1) Upon discovering any violation of the Metro Township Code, or applicable state codes, an
enforcement official may issue an administrative citation to a responsible person in the
manner prescribed in this Part or as prescribed in Section 12.1.210. The administrative
citation shall be issued on a form approved by the Director.

(2) Ifthe responsible person is a business, the enforcement official shall attempt to locate the
business owner and issue an administrative citation to the business owner. If the enforcement
official can only locate the manager of the business, the administrative citation may be given
to the manager of the business. A copy of the administrative citation may also be mailed to
the business owner or any other responsible person in the manner prescribed in Section

| 12.1.210 of this Title.

(3) Once the responsible person has been located, the enforcement official shall attempt to obtain
the signature of that person on the administrative citation. If the responsible person refuses
or fails to sign the administrative citation, the failure or refusal to sign shall not affect the
validity of the citation and subsequent proceedings.

(4) Ifthe enforcement official is unable to locate the responsible person for the violation, then
the administrative citation shall be mailed to the responsible person in the manner prescribed
in Section 12.1.210 of this Title.

(5) Ifno one can be located at the property, then the administrative citation may be posted in a
conspicuous place on or near the property and a copy subsequently mailed to the responsible
person in the manner prescribed by Section 12.1.210 of this Title.

(6) The administrative citation shall also contain the signature of the enforcement official.

(7) The failure of any person with an interest in the property to receive notice shall not affect the
validity of any proceedings taken under this Part.

12.2.440 CONTENTS OF ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION.

Administrative citations shall include the information required in Section 12.2.020 and shall:

(1) State the amount of penalty imposed for the minor violations; and

(2) Explain how the penalty shall be paid, the time period by which the penalty shall be paid,
and the consequences of failure to pay the penalty.

12.2.450 CIVIL PENALTIES ASSESSED.

(1) The Metro Township Council shall establish policies to assist in the assessment of civil
penalties for administrative citations.

(2) Civil penalties shall be assessed immediately for each violation listed on the administrative
citation. The penalties shall be those established in the Consolidated Fee Schedule.

11

(3) Payment of the penalty shall not excuse the failure to correct the violations, nor shall it bar
further enforcement action by the Metro Township.

12.2.500 PART 5 —- HEARING PROCEDURES

12.2.510 DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.

The Council finds that there is a need to establish uniform procedures for administrative code

enforcement hearings conducted pursuant to the Metro Township Code. It is the purpose and intent

of the Council to afford due process of law to any person who is directly affected by an
administrative action. Due process of law includes notice, an opportunity to participate in the
administrative hearing, and an explanation of the reasons justifying the administrative action.

These procedures are also intended to establish a forum to efficiently, expeditiously, and fairly

resolve issues raised in any administrative code enforcement action.

12.2.520 AUTHORITY AND SCOPE OF HEARINGS,

The Administrative Law Judge will preside over hearings of Metro Township Code violations.

The Administrative Law Judge shall develop policies and procedures to regulate the hearing

process for any violation of the Metro Township Code and applicable state codes that are handled

pursuant to the administrative abatement procedures, the emergency abatement procedures, the
demolition procedures, or the administrative citation procedures. If there is a conflict between the
appeal procedures in this Title and the appeal procedures in another code incorporated by the

Township, this Title shall control.

12.2.530 REQUEST FOR ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING.

(1) A person served with one of the following documents or notices has the right to request an
administrative code enforcement hearing, if the request is filed within 20 calendar days from
the date of service of one of the following notices:

a. Notice of violation;

b. Notice of itemized bill for costs;
c. Administrative citation;

d. Notice of emergency abatement;

(2) The request for hearing shall be made in writing and filed with the Administrative Law Judge.
The request shall contain the case number, the address of the violation, and the signature of
the responsible party.

(3) As soon as practicable after receiving the written notice of the request for hearing, the
Administrative Law Judge shall schedule a date, time, and place for the hearing.

(4) Failure to request a hearing as provided shall constitute a waiver of the right to a hearing and
a waiver of the right to challenge the action.

12

12.2.540 HEARINGS AND ORDERS.

(1) If the responsible person fails to request a hearing before the expiration of the 20-day
deadline, the Director may request a default hearing, which the Administrative Law Judge
shall schedule. The responsible person shall be notified of the date, time, and place of the
hearing by one of the methods listed in Section 12.2.210.

(2) A default hearing shall be scheduled for all cases that have outstanding or unpaid civil
penalties, fines, fees and/or costs due to the Metro Township before collection, if a hearing

on that case has not already been held.

(3) Atany hearing, the responsible person shall have the opportunity to present evidence to show
that good cause exists, as defined in the Title, to do one or more of the following in addition
to any other rights afforded under other provisions of the Metro Township Code or applicable
law:

a. Waive or reduce the fines which have accumulated;

b. Postpone an abatement action by the Metro Township; or

c. | Excuse the responsible person's failure to request a hearing within the 20-day period.

(4) Ifthe responsible person fails to establish good cause to take one or more of the actions set
forth in paragraph (3), the Administrative Law Judge shall review the notice of violation and
any other relevant information included in the case file. The Administrative Law Judge shall
not accept any other evidence.

a. If the evidence shows that the violations existed, the Administrative Law Judge shall
enter an order requiring abatement of the violations, and the payment of all fines and
fees. Fines shall run until the Director or other duly authorized representative of the
Metro Township issues a Notice of Compliance stating when the violations were actually
abated.

12.2.550 NOTIFICATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT

HEARING.

(1) Written notice of the day, time, and place of the hearing shall be served to a responsible
person as soon as practicable prior to the date of the hearing.

(2) The format and contents of the hearing notice shall be in accordance with rules and policies
promulgated by the Administrative Law Judge.

(3) The notice of hearing shall be served by any of the methods of service listed in Section
12.1.210 of this Title.

12.2.560 DISQUALIFICATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE.

(1) Aresponsible person may file a written motion to disqualify an Administrative Law Judge
for bias, prejudice, a conflict of interest, or any other reason for which a judge may be

13

disqualified in a court of law. The motion to disqualify shall be accompanied by an affidavit
or unsworn declaration as described in Title 78B of the Utah Code or applicable successor
statute(s) signed by the responsible person, which shall:
a. State that the motion is filed in good faith;
b. Allege facts sufficient to show, bias, prejudice, a conflict of interest, or any other reason
that would disqualify a judge in a court of law in Utah; and
c. State when and how the Responsible Party came to know of the reason for
disqualification.

(2) The responsible person must file the motion within 21 days of the assignment of the action
to an Administrative Law Judge or the date on which the responsible person knew or should
have known of the grounds on which the motion is based, whichever is later.

(3) A-responsible person can only file one motion to disqualify an Administrative Law Judge,
unless a second or subsequent motion is based on grounds that the responsible person did not
know of and could not have known of at the time of the earlier motion.

(4) The Administrative Law Judge who is the subject of a motion to disqualify must, without
taking any further action, provide the Director with a copy of the motion and refer the motion
to the Metro Township Council.

(5) Upon receipt of a motion to disqualify, the Metro Township Council will schedule and notice
the matter for review at its next regular scheduled meeting. The Metro Township Council
may, in its sole discretion, elect to hold a special meeting to hear the motion before its next
regularly scheduled meeting. The Metro Township Council shall first review the motion to
disqualify to determine if it satisfies the requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this
Section. If the motion to disqualify does not satisfy the requirements of this Section, the
Council will deny the motion and remand it to the Administrative Law Judge for further
proceedings. If the motion to disqualify satisfies the requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2)
of this Section, the Metro Township Council shall determine whether the motion is legally
sufficient to warrant disqualification. If the Metro Township Council determines that
disqualification is warranted, it will assign the matter to another Administrative Law Judge.
If the Metro Township Council determines that the motion to disqualify is not legally
sufficient, it will remand the matter back to the Administrative Law Judge.

12.2.570 POWERS OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE.

(1) The Administrative Law Judge has the authority to hold hearings, determine if violations of
Metro Township ordinances exist, order compliance with Metro Township ordinances, and
enforce compliance as provided in this Title on any matter subject to the provisions of the
Title.

(2) The Administrative Law Judge may continue a hearing based on good cause shown by one
of the parties to the hearing. The Administrative Law Judge must enter on the record the
good cause on which a continuance is granted.

14

(3) The Administrative Law Judge, at the request of any party to the hearing, may sign subpoenas
for witnesses, documents, and other evidence where the attendance of the witness for the
admission of evidence is deemed necessary to decide the issues at the hearing. All costs
related to the subpoena, including witness and mileage fees, shall be borne by the party
requesting the subpoena. The Administrative Law Judge shall develop policies and
procedures relating to the issuance of subpoenas in administrative code enforcement
hearings, including the form of the subpoena and related costs.

(4) The Administrative Law Judge has continuing jurisdiction over the subject matter of an
administrative code enforcement hearing for the purposes of granting a continuance; ordering
compliance by issuing an administrative code enforcement order using any remedies
available under the law; ensuring compliance of that order, which includes the right to

authorize the Metro Township to enter and abate a violation; modifying an administrative
| code enforcement order; or, where extraordinary circumstances exist, granting a new
hearing.

(5) The Administrative Law Judge has the authority to require a responsible person to post a
code enforcement performance bond to ensure compliance with an administrative code
enforcement order.

12.2.580 PROCEDURES AT ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT

HEARING.

(1) Administrative code enforcement hearings are intended to be informal in nature. Formal rules
of evidence and discovery do not apply; however, an informal exchange of discovery may
be required. The request must be in writing. Failure to request discovery shall not be a basis
for a continuance. Complainant information is protected and shall not be released unless the
complainant is a witness at the hearing. The procedure and format of the administrative
hearing shall follow the procedures promulgated by the Administrative Law Judge.

(2) The Metro Township bears the burden of proof at an administrative code enforcement
hearing to establish the existence of a violation of the Metro Township Code or applicable
state codes.

(3) The standard of proof to be used by the Administrative Law Judge in deciding the issues at
an administrative hearing is whether the preponderance of the evidence shows that the
violations exist.

(4) Each party shall have the opportunity to cross-examine witnesses and present evidence in
support of his or her case. A written declaration signed under penalty of perjury may be
accepted in lieu of a personal appearance. Testimony may be given by telephone or other
electronic means.

(5) All hearings are open to the public. They shall be recorded by audio tape. Hearings may be
held at the location of the violation.

(6) The responsible person has a right to be represented by an attorney. If an attorney will be
representing the responsible person at the hearing, notice of the attorney's name, address, and
telephone number must be given to the Metro Township at least one day prior to the hearing.

15

If notice is not given, the hearing may be continued at the Metro Township's request, and all
costs of the continuance assessed to the responsible person.

(7) No new hearing shall be granted, unless the Administrative Law Judge determines that
extraordinary circumstances exist which justify a new hearing.

12.2.590. FAILURE TO ATTEND ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT

HEARING.

Any party whose property or actions are the subject of any administrative code enforcement

hearing and who fails to appear at the hearing is deemed to waive the right to a hearing, and will

result in a default judgment for the Metro Township, provided that proper notice of the hearing
has been provided.

12.2.591 ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT ORDER.

(1) Once all evidence and testimony are completed, the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an
administrative code enforcement order that affirms, modifies, or rejects the notice or citation.
The Administrative Law Judge may increase or decrease the total amount of civil penalties
and costs that are due pursuant to the Metro Township's fee schedule and the procedures in
this Title.

(2) The parties may enter into a stipulated agreement, which must be signed by both parties. This
agreement shall be entered as a stipulated administrative code enforcement order. Entry of
this agreement shall constitute a waiver of the right to a hearing and the right to appeal.

(3) The Administrative Law Judge may order the Metro Township to enter the property and
abate all violations, including but not limited to demolitions and the removal of vehicles,
garbage, animals, and other property kept in violation of the Metro Township Code.

(4) The Administrative Law Judge may revoke a kennel permit, an animal license, or the right
to possess animals as provided in the Metro Township Code.

(5) As part of the administrative code enforcement order, the Administrative Law Judge may
condition the total or partial assessment of civil penalties on the responsible person's ability
to complete compliance by specified deadlines.

(6) The Administrative Law Judge may schedule subsequent review hearings as may be
necessary or as requested by a party to the hearing to ensure compliance with the
administrative code enforcement order.

(7) The Administrative Law Judge may order the responsible person to post a performance bond
to ensure compliance with the order.

(8) The administrative code enforcement order shall become final on the date of the signing of
the order.

(9) The administrative code enforcement order shall be served on all parties by any one of the
methods listed in Section 12.1.210 of this Title.

16

12-2-595 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER.

(1) Upon the failure of the responsible person to comply with the terms and deadlines set forth
in the administrative code enforcement order, the Metro Township may abate the violation
as provided in Chapter 3, Part 3 of this Title and use all appropriate legal means to recover
the civil penalties and administrative costs to obtain compliance.

(2) After the Administrative Law Judge issues an administrative code enforcement order, the
Administrative Law Judge shall monitor the violations and determine compliance.

12.2.600 PART 6 —- ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT APPEALS
12.2.610 APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING
DECISION.

(1) Any person adversely affected by any decision made in the exercise of the provisions of this
Chapter may file a petition for review of the decision or order by the district court within 30
days after the decision is rendered.

(2) No person may challenge in district court an administrative code enforcement hearing
officer's decision until that person has exhausted his or her administrative remedies.

(3) Within 120 days after submitting the petition, the party petitioning for appeal shall request a
copy of the record of the proceedings, including transcripts of hearings when necessary. The
Administrative Law Judge shall not submit copies of files or transcripts to the reviewing
court until the party petitioning for appeal has paid all required costs. The petitioning party's
failure to properly arrange for copies of the record, or to pay the full costs for the record,
within 180 days after the petition for review was filed shall be grounds for dismissal of the
petition.

a. Ifa transcript of a hearing cannot be prepared because the tape recording is incomplete
or unintelligible, the district court may, in its discretion, remand the matter to the
Administrative Law Judge for a supplemental proceeding to complete the record. The
district court may limit the scope of the supplemental proceeding to issues that, in the
court's opinion, need to be clarified.

(4) The district court's review is limited to the record of the administrative decision that is being
appealed. The court shall not accept nor consider any evidence that is not part of the record
of that decision.

(5) The courts shall:

a. Presume that the administrative code enforcement hearing officer's decision and orders
are valid; and

b. Review the record to determine whether or not the decision was arbitrary, capricious, or
illegal.

17

CHAPTER 12.3 — ADMINISTRATIVE AND JUDICIAL REMEDIES

12.3.100 PART 1 -RECORDATION OF NOTICES OF VIOLATION

12.3.110 DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.

The Council finds that there is a need for alternative methods of enforcement for violations of the
| Metro Township Code and applicable state codes that are found to exist on real property. The
Council further finds that an appropriate method of enforcement for these types of violations is the

issuance and recordation of notices of violation.

The procedures established in this Part shall be in addition to criminal, civil, or any other remedy

established by law that may be pursued to address the violation of the Metro Township Code or

applicable state codes.

12.3.120 AUTHORITY.

Whenever the Director determines that a property or violation has not been brought into

compliance as required in this Title, the Director has the authority, in his or her discretion, to record

the notice of violation or administrative code enforcement order with the County Recorder's

Office.

12.3.130 PROCEDURES FOR RECORDATION.

(1) Once the Director has issued a notice of violation to a responsible person, and the property
remains in violation after the deadline established in the notice of violation, and no request
for an administrative hearing has been filed, the Director shall record a notice of violation
with the County Recorder's Office.

(2) Ifan administrative hearing is held, and an order is issued in the Metro Township's favor, the
Director shall record the administrative code enforcement order with the County Recorder's
Office.

(3) The recordation shall include the name of the property owner, the parcel number, the legal
description of the parcel, and a copy of the notice of violation or order.

(4) The recordation does not encumber the property, but merely places future interested parties
on notice of any continuing violation found upon the property.

12.3.140 SERVICE OF NOTICE OF RECORDATION.

A notice of the recordation shall be served on the responsible person and the property owner

pursuant to any of the methods of service set forth in Section 12.1.210 of this Title.

18

12.3.150 FAILURE TO REQUEST.

The failure of any person to file a request for an administrative code enforcement hearing when

served with a notice of violation shall constitute a waiver of the right to an administrative hearing

and shall not affect the validity of the recorded notice of violation.

12.3.160 NOTICE OF COMPLIANCE — PROCEDURES.

(1) When the violations have been corrected, the responsible person or property owner may
request an inspection of the property from the Director.

| (2) Upon receipt of a request for inspection, the Director shall re-inspect the property as soon as
practicable to determine whether the violations listed in the notice of violation or the order
have been corrected, and whether all necessary permits have been issued and final
inspections have been performed.

(3) The Director shall serve a notice of satisfaction to the responsible person or property owner
in the manner provided in Section 12.2.210 of this Title, if the Director determines that:

(4) All violations listed in the recorded notice of violation or order has been corrected;

(5) All necessary permits have been issued and finalized;

(6) All civil penalties assessed against the property have been paid or satisfied; and

(7) The party requesting the notice of satisfaction has paid all administrative fees and costs.

(8) Ifthe Director denies a request to issue a notice of satisfaction, upon request, the Director
shall serve the responsible person with a written explanation setting forth the reasons for the
denial. The written explanation shall be served by any of the methods of service listed in
Section 12.1.210 of this Title.

12.3.170 PROHIBITION AGAINST ISSUANCE OF MUNICIPAL PERMITS.

The Metro Township may withhold business licenses; permits for kennels; or permits for any

alteration, repair, or construction pertaining to any existing or new structures or signs on the

property, or any permits pertaining to the use and development of the real property or the structure.

The Metro Township may withhold permits until a notice of satisfaction has been issued by the

Director. The Metro Township may not withhold permits that are necessary to obtain a notice of

satisfaction or that are necessary to correct serious health and safety violations.

12.3.180 CANCELLATION OF RECORDED NOTICE OF VIOLATION.

The Director or responsible person shall record the notice of satisfaction with the County

Recorder's Office. Recordation of the notice of satisfaction shall cancel the recorded notice of

violation.

19

12.3.200 PART 2 — ADMINISTRATIVE CIVIL PENALTIES

12.3.210 AUTHORITY.

(1) Any person violating any provision of the Metro Township Code, or applicable state codes,
may be subject to the assessment of civil penalties for each violation.

(2) Each and every day a violation of any provision of the Metro Township Code or applicable
state codes exists is a separate violation subject to the assessment of civil penalties.

| (3) Civil penalties cannot be assessed when a criminal case has been filed for the same date and
violation, because fines will be assessed with the criminal case.

(4) Interest shall be assessed per Metro Township policy, or at the judgment rate provided in
Utah Code Ann. § 15-1-4 in the absence of a Metro Township policy, on all outstanding civil
penalties balances until the case has been paid in full.

(5) Civil penalties for violations of any provision of the Metro Township Code or applicable
state codes shall be assessed pursuant to the Metro Township’s applicable fee schedule.

12.3.220 PROCEDURES FOR ASSESSING CIVIL PENALTIES.

(1) Ifa responsible person fails to bring a violation into compliance within ten days of service
of the notice of violation, civil penalties shall be owed to the Metro Township for each and
every subsequent day of violation.

(2) Civil penalties are assessed and owing immediately for any violation of the Metro Township
Code or applicable state codes for an administrative citation.

12.3.230 DETERMINATION OF CIVIL PENALTIES.

(1) Civil penalties shall be assessed per violation per day pursuant to the applicable Metro
Township fee schedule.

(2) Civil penalties shall continue to accrue until the violation(s) has/have been brought into
compliance with the Metro Township Code or applicable state codes.

12.3.240 MODIFICATION OF CIVIL PENALTIES.

(1) Upon completion of the notice of violation or administrative enforcement order, the
responsible person may request a modification of the civil penalties on a finding of good
cause.

(2) Civil penalties may be waived or modified by the Administrative Law Judge, in his or her
discretion, if there is a finding of good cause based on the responsible person's claim of
nonconforming use or conditional use and:

(3) The Metro Township’s need to verify the claim; or

20

(4) The responsible person's filing of an application for either use before expiration of the date
to correct.

12.3.250 FAILURE TO PAY PENALTIES.

The failure of any person to pay civil penalties assessed within the specified time may result in the

Director pursuing any legal remedy to collect the civil penalties as provided in the law.

12.3.300 PART 3 —- ABATEMENT OF VIOLATION

12.3.310 AUTHORITY TO ABATE.

The Director is authorized to enter upon any property or premises to abate the violation of the

Metro Township Code and applicable state codes pursuant to this Part. The Director is authorized
to assess all costs for the abatement to the responsible person and use any remedy available under
the law to collect the costs. If additional abatements are necessary within two years, treble costs
may be assessed against the responsible person(s) for the actual abatement.

12.3.320 PROCEDURES FOR ABATEMENT.

(1) The Director may abate a violation pursuant to this Part after providing notice under Section
12.2.020 and by following the process set forth in Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or any
applicable successor statute(s) if the Responsible Party or Parties:

a. Do not abate a violation within the time period prescribed in a notice issued pursuant to
Sections 12.2.020 and 12.2.400, et seq.; and

b. The Responsible Party or Parties did not file a request for an administrative code
enforcement hearing under Section 12.2.530.

(2) The Director may, in his or her discretion, request a default hearing pursuant to Section
12.2.504 but is not required to do so to abate the violation under this Part and may abate the
violation without a default hearing pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or applicable
successor statute(s).

(3) The Director may use Metro Township personnel or by a private contractor acting under his
or her direction or the direction of the Metro Township to abate the violation.

(4) Metro Township personnel or a private contractor may enter upon private property in a
reasonable manner to abate the ordinance violation as specified in the notice of violation or
administrative code enforcement order.

(5) Ifthe responsible person abates the violation before the Metro Township performs the actual
abatement pursuant to a notice of violation or administrative code enforcement order, the
Director may still assess all costs incurred by the Metro Township against the responsible
person.

(6) When the abatement is completed, the Director shall prepare an itemized statement of the
work performed that complies with Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or any applicable successor

21

statute(s).

(7) The Director shall serve the itemized statement on the responsible person in accordance with
Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or any applicable successor statute(s).

(8) The Administrative Law Judge shall hear any appeals filed by a responsible person in
response to an itemized statement issued under this Part and shall conduct such appeals and
any related hearings in accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or any applicable
successor statute(s).

12.3.400 PART 4-— COSTS

12.3.410 DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.

(1) The Council finds that there is a need to recover costs incurred by enforcement officials and
other Metro Township personnel who spend considerable time inspecting and re-inspecting
properties throughout the Metro Township in an effort to ensure compliance with the Metro
Township Code or applicable state codes.

(2) The Council further finds that the assessment of costs is an appropriate method to recover
expenses incurred for actual costs of abating violations, re-inspection fees, filing fees,
attorney fees, hearing officer fees, title search, and any additional actual costs incurred by
the Metro Township for each individual case. The assessment and collection of costs shall
not preclude the imposition of any administrative or judicial civil penalties or fines for
violations of the Metro Township Code or applicable state codes.

12.3.420 AUTHORITY.

(1) Whenever actual costs are incurred by the Metro Township on a property to obtain
compliance with provisions of the Metro Township Code and applicable state codes, the
Director may assess costs against the responsible person.

(2) Once a notice of violation has been issued, the property will be inspected one time. Any
additional inspections shall be subject to re-inspection fees pursuant to the applicable Metro
Township fee schedule as adopted in the Metro Township’s annual budget.

12.3.430 NOTIFICATION OF ASSESSMENT OF REINSPECTION FEES.

(1) Notification of any applicable re-inspection fees adopted by the Metro Township shall be
provided on the notice of violation served to the responsible person(s).

(2) Re-inspection fees assessed or collected pursuant to this Part shall not be included in any
other costs assessed.

(3) The failure of any responsible person to receive notice of the re-inspection fees shall not
affect the validity of any other fees imposed under this Part.

22

12.3.440 FAILURE TO TIMELY PAY COSTS.

The failure of any person to pay assessed costs by the deadline specified in the invoice shall result

in a late fee pursuant to Metro Township policy.

12.3.500 PART 5 —- ADMINISTRATIVE FEES

12.3.510 ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.

The Director or the Administrative Law Judge is authorized to assess administrative fees for costs

incurred in the administration of this program, such as investigation of violations, preparation for
hearings, hearings, and the collection process. The fee assessed shall be the amount set in the
applicable Metro Township fee schedule.

12.3.600 PART 6 — INJUNCTIONS

12.3.610 CIVIL VIOLATIONS — INJUNCTIONS.

In addition to any other remedy provided under the Metro Township Code or state codes, including

criminal prosecution or administrative remedies, any provision of the Metro Township Code may

be enforced by injunction issued in the Third District Court upon a suit brought by the Metro

Township.

12.3.700 PART 7 — PERFORMANCE BONDS

12.3.710 PERFORMANCE BOND.

(1) As part of any notice, order, or action, the Director or Administrative Law Judge has the
authority to require responsible persons to post a performance bond to ensure compliance
with the Metro Township Code, applicable state codes, or any judicial action.

(2) Ifthe responsible person fails to comply with the notice, order, or action, the bond will be
forfeited to the Metro Township. The bond will not be used to offset the other outstanding
costs and fees associated with the case.

23

CHAPTER 12.4 - RECOVERY OF CODE ENFORCEMENT PENALTIES
AND COSTS

12.4.100 PART 1 —- CODE ENFORCEMENT TAX LIENS
12.4.110 DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.

| The Council finds that recordation of code enforcement tax liens will assist in the collection of
civil penalties, administrative costs, and administrative fees assessed by the administrative code
enforcement hearing program or judicial orders. The Council further finds that collection of civil
penalties, costs, and fees assessed for code enforcement violations is important in deterring future
violations and maintaining the integrity of the Metro Township's code enforcement system. The
procedures established in this Part shall be used to complement existing administrative or judicial
remedies that may be pursued to address violations of the Metro Township Code or applicable
state codes.

12.4.120 PROCEDURES FOR TAX LIENS WITHOUT A JUDGMENT.

(1) Once the Metro Township has abated a property for weeds, garbage, refuse, or unsightly or
deleterious objects or structures, the Director shall prepare three copies of the Itemized
Statement of Costs incurred in the removal and destruction of the violations and deliver them
to the Metro Township Mayor within 10 days after completion of the work of removing the
violations.

(2) The Director shall send, by registered mail to the property owner's last known address, a
copy of the Itemized Statement of Costs informing him or her that a code enforcement tax
lien is being recorded for the amount of actual costs of abatement. Payment shall be due
within 20 calendar days from the date of mailing.

(3) Upon receipt of the Itemized Statement of Costs, the Metro Township Mayor shall record a
Code Enforcement Tax Lien against the property with the County Treasurer's office.

(4) The failure of any person with a financial interest in the property to actually receive the notice
of the lien shall not affect the validity of the lien or any proceedings taken to collect the
outstanding costs of abatement.

12.4.130 PROCEDURES FOR TAX LIENS WITH A JUDGMENT.

Once a judgment has been obtained from the appropriate court assessing costs against the

responsible person(s), the Director may record a code enforcement tax lien against any real

property owned by the responsible person(s).

12.4.140. CANCELLATION OF CODE ENFORCEMENT TAX LIEN.

Once payment in full is received for the outstanding civil penalties and costs, or the amount is

deemed satisfied pursuant to a subsequent administrative or judicial order, the Director shall either

record a Notice of Satisfaction of Judgment, or provide the property owner or financial institution
with the Notice of Satisfaction of Judgment so that it can record this notice with the county
24

recorder's office. The notice of satisfaction of judgment shall include the same information as

provided for in the original Code Enforcement Tax Lien. Such notice of satisfaction of judgment

shall cancel the code enforcement tax lien.

12.4.200 PART 2 —- WRIT OF EXECUTION

12.4.201 RECOVERY OF COSTS BY WRIT OF EXECUTION.

After obtaining a judgment, the Director may collect the obligation by use of all appropriate legal
means. This may include the execution on personal property owned by the responsible person by

filing a writ with the applicable court.

12.4.300 PART 3 —- WRIT OF GARNISHMENT

12.4.310 RECOVERY OF COSTS BY WRIT OF GARNISHMENT.

After obtaining a judgment, the Director may collect the obligation by use of all appropriate legal

means. This may include the garnishment of paychecks, financial accounts, and other income or

financial assets by filing a writ with the applicable court.

12.4.400 PART 4- ALLOCATION OF FUNDS COLLECTED UNDER

ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING PROGRAM

12.4.410 ABATEMENT FUND.

There is, hereby established, a revolving fund to be known as the "Abatement Fund" to defray

costs of administrative and judicial abatements. The fund shall be reimbursed by collection from

the property or property owner as specified in this Title and by the courts. The Metro Township

Council shall establish accounting procedures to ensure proper account identification, credit, and

collection. This fund may be operated and used in conjunction with procedures ordered or

authorized under the abatement provision of this Title.

12.4.420. REPAYMENT TO ABATEMENT FUND.

All monies recovered from the sale or transfer of property or by payment for the actual abatement

costs shall be paid to the Metro Township Treasurer, who shall credit the appropriate amount to

the Abatement Fund.

12.4.430 CODE ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATIVE FEES AND COST FUND.

Administrative fees and administrative costs, except for actual abatement costs, collected pursuant

to this Part shall be deposited in a fund established by the Metro Township Council for the

enhancement of the Metro Township's code enforcement efforts and to reimburse the Metro

Township for investigative costs and costs associated with the hearing process. Fees and costs

deposited in this fund shall be appropriated and allocated in a manner determined by the Metro

Township Council. The Metro Township Council shall establish accounting procedures in

consultation with the Metro Township Auditor to ensure proper account identification, credit, and

collection.

25

12.4.440 ALLOCATION OF CIVIL PENALTIES.
Civil penalties collected pursuant to this Part shall be deposited in the General Fund of the Metro
Township. Civil penalties deposited in this fund shall be appropriated and allocated in a manner
determined by the Metro Township Manager and the Metro Township Council. The Metro
Township Council shall establish accounting procedures to ensure proper account identification,
credit, and collection.

26

EXHIBIT B
Chapter 19.94 — Code Enforcement and Community Preservation

|
Chapter 19.94 - ENFORCEMENT
19.94.010 - Enforcement authority.
The director of development services or his authorized agent is designated as the officer charged
with the enforcement of this title. The director of animal services is designated as the enforcement official =
for Section 19.04.305 of the Kearns Metro Township Code of Ordinances which shall be enforced | Deleted: Salt Lake
pursuant to Section 8.10.010 of this code. — ———— —
| Deleted: County _|
19.94.020 - Powers and duties.
| A. The Director of Development Services is authorized to inspect or cause to be inspected all buildings | Deleted: d 7 “|
and structures in the course of construction, modification or repair and to inspect land uses to determine "Dele ted: d OY
compliance with the provisions of this title; provided, however that no such inspection shall be required ee
| as a condition precedent to commence, or continug any construction, modification or repair of building |_Deleted: se _—___- _|
or structure. | Deleted: ment _ |
B. The director shall enforce all of the provisions of this title, employing all legal means available to do | Deleted: ation of BO
so. In the enforcement of this title, the director or any employee of the division authorized to represent _ TT
the director shall have the right to enter any building for the purpose of determining the use thereof or
to enter the premises for the purpose of determining compliance with the provisions of this title,
provided that such right of entry shall be exercised only at reasonable hours and that in no case shall
entry be made to any occupied building in the absence of the owner or tenant thereof without the
written order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
19.94.030 - Unlawful use prohibited.
A. No land, building or structure shall be used for any purpose or use not allowed in the zone in which
such land, building or structure is located.
| B. _ Violation of any of the provisions contained in this title is prohibited. Any person who violates these, | Deleted: at OO |
provisions of this title shall be subject to the criminal and civil penalties set forth in this chapter. TO
19.94.040 - Violation—Penalties and remedies.
A. Violation of any of the provisions of this title is punishable as a Class C misdemeanor upon conviction.
In addition, the provisions of this title may also be enforced by injunctions, mandamus, abatement,
civil penalties, or any other remedies provided by law.
B. Any one, all, or any combination of the penalties and remedies set forth in subsection A of this section
may be used to enforce the provisions of this title.

C. Each day that any violation continucs after notification by the director of development services or his
agent that such violation exists shall be considered a separate offense for purposes of penalties and
remedies set forth in this title.

D_ Accumulation of penalties for continuing violations, but not the obligation for payment of penalties
already accrued, shall stop upon correction of the violation.

19.94.050 - Violation—Persons liable.

Any person, corporation or other entity, whether as owner, occupant, agent or employee, who causes,
permits or otherwise participates in any violation of the provisions of this title may be held responsible for
the violation, suffer the penalties, and be subject to the remedies provided by law.

19.94.060 - Violation—Notice and order.

A. Upon inspection and discovery that any provision of this title is being violated, the director shall
provide a written notice of violation and order to the property owner and to any other party who may
be responsible for the violation.

B. The written notice and order shail: (1) indicate the nature of the violation; (2) order the action
necessary to correct the violation; (3) give information regarding the established warning period for
the violation; and (4) state the action the director intends to take if the violation is not corrected within
the warning period.

C. The written notice shall be delivered personally or mailed to the property owner, as shown on the
records of the county recorder, and to any other person who may be responsible for the violation.
Receipt of notice shall mean three days after the date written notice is delivered or mailed as provided
herein.

D. The written notice shall serve to start any warning periods provided in this chapter, commencing upon
receipt of notice. If the violation remains uncured within five days after the expiration of the warning
period, a second notice of violation and order shall be delivered in the same manner as the first notice.
The second notice shall serve to start the civil penalties.

E. In cases where the director determines that a delay of enforcement would pose a danger to the public
health, safety or welfare, or would otherwise compromise the effective enforcement of this title, the
director may seek immediate enforcement without prior written notice by instituting any of the
remedies, other than civil penalties, authorized by Section 19.94.040 of this chapter.

19.94,.070 - Civil penalties.

A. Civil Penalties. Violations of the provisions of this title shall result in civil penalties pursuant to the
following schedule:

CIVIL PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF ZONINGREGULATIONS
| WARNING PERIOD: 4 DAYS FOR ALL VIOLATIONS | | Deleted: 28 |
_ ee a Fine Per D:
Type of Zone Classification of Violation me or “y :
(after warning period)
a Residential Zones Conditional use without a permit $75 —*?
| R-I's Other violations | (Deleted: 25 ——$
R-2's _ |
R+4-8.5 a
. | Nonpermitted use $150 | Deleted: FR's _ __)
r +—Violation of permit or approval | : | | Deleted: 50 _
| | | Deleted: F-1 a
- Mixed Zones | Conditional use without a permit | $100 $$.
| R-M | Other violations — pDeleted: 50 00 __J
MD's |
. Nonpermitted use | $200 | Deleted: FM's
S-1-G Violation of permit or approval | — | Deleted: 100 7 |
| Conditional use without a permit ——_——___—-- a
| Commercial/ Manufacturing Zones | Other violations | 150° | | Deleted: 100 |
Ss
onpermitted use $$$.
O-R-D | $300 :
| Violation of permit or approval B00 | (Deleted:20000
|
Conditional use without a permit | ——- oo
| Agricultural Zones | Other violations | [Deleted:250 0 _|
A's | = a — a
P | Nonpermitted use §150 | { Deleted: FA's : |
Violation of permit or approval —= | | Deleted: 50 |
Overlay Zones | _
AOZ Violation of provisions | $200 | [ Deleted:100
. | | | Deleted: HPZ |
}
B. Daily Violations. Each day a violation is continued or maintained after receipt of notice shall give rise
to a separate civil penalty for each day of violation.
C. Violation Appeal Procedures.

1. The mayor shall appoint such hearing officers as he/she deems appropriate to consider matters
relating to the violation of this title.
2. Any person having received notice of such violation, or the owner of any affected property, may
appear before a hearing officer and present and contest such alleged violation of this title.
3. The burden to prove any defense specified in subsection (C)(4) of this section shall be upon the
person raising such defense.
4. Ifthe hearing officer finds that no violation occurred and/or a violation occurred but one or more
of the defenses set forth in this section is applicable, the hearing officer may dismiss the notice of
| violation. Such defenses are:
a. At the time of the receipt of the notice of violation, compliance would have violated the
criminal laws of the state;
b. Compliance with the subject ordinances would have presented an imminent and irreparable
injury to persons or property.
5. Ifthe hearing officer finds that a violation of this title occurred and no applicable defense exists, _ ;
| the hearing officer may, in the interest of justice and on behalf of the Mciro, enter into an | Deleted: county
agreement for the timely or periodic payment of the applicable penalty by the violator. =>
6. Noaction by a hearing officer shall relieve the violator from complying with any of the provisions
of this title.
D. Abatement for Correction and Payment.
1. Civil penalties shall be partially abated after the violation is cured and in the discretion of a
hearing officer considering the following guidelines and factors:
a. Prompt Cure, Reductions are generally appropriate for promptly curing the violation
pursuant to the following schedule, but the hearing officer may grant greater or lesser
abatements depending on the facts of the case:
i. Cured within fourteen days after second notice—seventy-five percent reduction,
ii. Cured within twenty-eight days after second notice—fifty percent reduction, or
iii. Cured within fifty-six days after second notice—twenty-five percent reduction;
b. I fstrict compliance with the notice and order would have caused an imminent and irreparable
injury to persons or property;
c. Ifthe violation and inability to cure were both caused by a force majeure event such as war,
act of nature, strike or civil disturbance;
| d. Such other mitigating circumstances as may be approved by the Metro Township attorney
or designee;
| e. Ifa change in the actual ownership of the property was recorded in the recorder's office after — f Deleted: r 7 a |
the first or second notice was issued and the new owner is not related by blood, marriage or ———— = ==
common ownership to the prior owner.
2. Ifthe hearing officer finds that the noticed violation occurred and no applicable defense applies, —
| the hearing officer may, in the interest of justice and on behalf of the Metro, enter into an | Deleted; county |
agreement for the delayed or periodic payment of the applicable penalty.
E. Collection of Civil Penalties.

| 1. Ifthe penalty imposed pursuant to this chapter remains unsatisfied after jhirty days or when the | Deleted: forty |
penalty amounts to five thousand dollars from the receipt of notice, or ten days from such date as _
| may have been agreed to by the hearing officer, the Mctro may use such lawful means as are | Deleted: county
available to collect such penalty, including costs and attorney's fees. 7
2. Commencement of any action to remove penalties shall not relieve the responsibility of any
penalty to cure the violation or make payment of subsequently accrued civil penalties nor shall it : ;
require the Metro to reissue any of the notices required by this chapter. | Deleted: county
we Separate civil penalties and subsequent legal action may be pursued for properties with | Deleted: 4 7
recurring violations or niultiple violations. ;
