                          KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
                               ORDINANCE No.               .   0 'L. ()
                                  JANUAR-Y         IS      , 2017
                                  f-"e.\r:;,  Fi
                                         1·•v1•>

     AN ORDINANCE RA 11FYING THE LETTER SENT TO THE UTAH STATE TAX
     COMMISSION PRIOR TO INCORPORATION ACCEPTING THE ONE-PERCENT
 LOCAL SALES AND USE TAX AND DIRECTING THE PROCEEDS FROM THE TAX BE
     REMITTED TO THE GREATER SALT LAKE MUNICIPAL SERVICES DISTRICT.



 BE IT KNOWN AND REMEMBERED THAT, the Kearns Metro Township Council met in a
                          ,::      <W"/· .···
                          1 2\ ,r,.5-
 regular public meeting on -fanua1':Y  I L::J,
                                             2017

                                            WITNESS

        WHEREAS, the incorporation of the Kearns Metro Township requires the Council to
adopt and accept the Local Sales and Use Tax; and

        WHEREAS, prior to the creation ofthe Kearns Metro Township, Salt Lake County
collected the Local Sales and Use Tax to fund municipal services delivered to Kearns; and

        WHEREAS, the Kearns Metro Township adopting and accepting the Local Sales and Use
Tax does not add a new tax but rather transitions the collection and reporting point for the tax to
  Mt,gna;and
l\((°\V'f\S
           WHEREAS, to insure a smooth transition of the collection and reporting of the Local
 Sales and Use Tax, the Utah State Tax Commission had to be notified of Kearns' intent prior to
January I, 2017; and

        WHEREAS, the Kearns voters, in the November 3, 20 I 5 election, voted to incorporate as
a Metro Township and to join the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (GSLMSD) as
members of the District; and
        WHEREAS, per State Law, a Metro Township that voted to join a Municipal Services
District shall remit their Local Sales and Use Tax revenues to the District to fund the services
provided by the District; and

        WHEREAS, to insure a proper transition of the reporting and remitting of revenues, a
letter of notification to the Utah State Tax Commission to accept and remit the Local Sales and
Use Tax was created; and

        WHEREAS, this work had to be performed prior to the Council's official terms of office
commencing; and

        WHEREAS, the elected members of the Kearns Metro Township Council approved the
letter, accepted the pending section of municipal code and authorized their chair to sign the
letter; and

        WHEREAS, the required documents were filed with the Utah State Tax Commission on
December 22, 2016.




                                          RESOLUTION

        NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, the Kearns Metro Township Council does
hereby ratify and approve the letter to accept and remit the Local Sales and Use Tax to the Utah
State Tax Commission.




ATTACHMENTS

COPY OF LETTER PRESENTED TO TAX COMMISSION

COPY OF PENDING CODE SECTION TO AUTHORIZING THE LOCAL SALES AND USE
TAX FOR KEARNS
APPROVEDAND ADOPTED in Kearns, Salt Lake County, Utah this \b
2017.




                                          By:
                                                 ~.
                                                 ;k                n -
                                                              0 , '¥ r?1
                                                              /J
                                                Steven A. Perry, Council Chaif



ATTEST




Sherrie Swensen
Salt Lake County Clerk
Kearns Metro Township Clerk/Recorder



VOTING
Council Member Bush voting
Council Member Perry voting
Council Member Peterson voting
Council Member Schaeffer voting
Council Member Snow voting
Kearns Metro Township
5778 S Clear Vista Cir Kearns, UT 84118 j 801~680-2282 I



December 15, 2016

Utah State Tax Commission
210 N 1950 West
SLC,UT84134

Subject: Notice of Acceptance and Remittance     of the Local Sales and Use Tax - Kearns Metro
Township

Dear Utah State Tax Commission:
Pursuant to law contained in the 1.p_calSales and Use Tax Law of Utah. Title 59.Chapter 12. Part 2 Utah
Code Annotated (1953) as amended, and specificallyUCA §59-12-203, l hereby notify and request
certification from the Utah State Tax Commissi.onof the Kearns Metro Township, a municipal corporation,
to accept local sales and use tax generated within the Kearns Metro Township.

Pursuant to UCA17B-Za-1108, Kearns requests all local sales and use taxes entitled to Kearns be remitted
to the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services Dist1ict.

I, Steven A. Perry, Chairman of the Kearns Metro Township, hereby certify the Kearns Metro Township
has complied with all of the requirements of this requested action.




St~vcA.Pcrry
Chairman
Kearns Metro Township Council

SUBSCRIBEDAND SWORN to before me this                l>1d~ of December2016.
My Commissionex1>h-es:




                                                                      PAUL
                                                                         HASHTON
Enclosure                                                         !VOTARY
                                                                      PUBUC    OFUTAH
                                                                          •STAJE
                                                                  MyCol!missionJu.,
                                                                           &pres 18,2019
                                                                    COI.MSSION
                                                                           NUMBER
                                                                               68422f
Copy of KMTCA§3.04 - Local Sales and Use Tax
Title 3 - REVENUE AND FINANCE

Chapters:

Chapter 3.04 - LOCAL SALES AND USE TAX

Sections:

3.04.010 - Title of provisions.

    The ordinance codified in this chapter shall be known as "the Local Sales and Use
Tax Ordinance of the Kearns Metro Township."
3.04.020 - Purpose of provisions.

     The council hereby declares that the ordinance codified in this chapter is adopted to
achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be
interpreted in order to accomplish these purposes:
    A   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance that complies with the requirements and
        limitations contained in the Local Sales and Use Tax Law of Utah, Title 59,
        Chapter 12, Part 2 Utah Code Annotated (1953), as amended;
    B. To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to
       those of Chapters 12 of Title 59, Utah Code Annotated (1953), as amended,
       insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and
       limitations contained in said Local Sales and Use Tax Law of Utah;
    C. To adopt a taxing ordinance that levies a metro sales and use tax, that provides
       the measure thereof upon which to impose said tax as permitted by state law,
       and that meets the statutory requirements and administrative procedures
       followed by the State Tax Commission in the administration and collection of
       sales and use taxes in the state;
    D. To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner
       that will exclude the receipts of particular sales from the measure of the sales tax
       imposed by this metro which have been included in the measure of the sales tax
       imposed by any other metro township, county or municipality, and avoid imposing
       a use tax on the storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property
       in this metro when the gross receipts from the sales of or the use of that property
       have been subject to a sales or use tax by any other metro township, county or
       municipality of the state of Utah, pursuant to a sales and use tax chapter enacted
       under the provisions of the Sales and Use Tax Law of Utah.

3.04.030 - Sales tax - Imposed - Amount.

    There is hereby levied for collection a tax upon every retail sale of tangible personal
property, services and meals made within the Kearns Metro Township ("Metro") which
sales tax shall be imposed at the rate of one percent of the purchase price paid or charged
on said retail sale. The taxability of any sale or use shall be determined pursuant to the
provisions of Utah Code Ann. Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 1.

3.04.040 - Place where sales consummated.

     For the purposes of this chapter, all retail sales shall be presumed to have been
consummated at the place of business of the retailer, unless the tangible personal
property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination. In the
event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the state or has more than one
place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be
as determined under the rules and regulations prescribed and adopted by the State Tax
Commission. Public utilities, as defined by Title 54, Utah Code Annotated, shall not be
obligated to determine the place or places within any metro township, county or
municipality where public utilities' services are rendered, but the place of the sale of the
sales tax revenues arising from such service allocable to the Metro shall be as determined
by the State Tax Commission pursuant to an appropriate formula and other rules and
regulations prescribed and adopted by it.

3.04.050 - Retailer license and registration.

     If a license has been issued by the State Tax Commission pursuant to the provisions
of Section 59-12-106, Utah Code Annotated (1953), as amended, to a person in the Metro
who is required to collect a sales tax, said person shall not be required to obtain a similar
license from the Metro because of the provisions of this chapter.

3.04.060 - Exclusions.

   There shall be excluded from the purchase price paid or charged by which the tax is
measured:
    A.   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state upon a retailer or
         consumer;
    B. Receipts from the sale of tangible personal property upon which a sales or use
       tax has become due by reason of the same transaction to any other metro
       township, county and any municipality in the state of Utah under a sales or use
       tax ordinance enacted by that metro township, county or municipality in
       accordance with the Local Sales and Use Tax Law of Utah.

3.04.070 - Use tax-Imposed-Amount.

     There is hereby levied for collection a tax upon the storage, use or other consumption
in the Metro of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer for storage, use or
other consumption in the Metro. Such use tax shall be imposed at the rate of one percent
of the sales price of the property, the storage, use, or consumption of which is subject to
the tax.
3.04.080 - Exemptions.

     There shall be exempt from the taxes due under this chapter:
     A. The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state under Title 59, Chapter
        12, Utah Code Annotated (1953), as amended;
     B. The sale, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property, the
        purchase price from the sale of or the cost of which has been subject to the
        imposition of a sales or use tax under a sales and use tax ordinance enacted in
        accordance with the provisions of Title 11, Chapter 9, Utah Code Annotated
        (1953), as amended, by another metro township, county or municipality in
        another county in the state of Utah.

3.04.090 - Statutes adopted-Alternating      operability.

A.   1.   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are inconsistent with
          the provisions of the Local Sales and Use Tax Law of Utah, all of the provisions
          of Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 1, Utah Code Annotated (1953), are hereby adopted
          and made a part of this chapter as though fully set forth herein.
     2.   Wherever and to the extent that in Chapter 12, Part 1 of Title 59, Utah Code
          Annotated (1953), the state of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing agency,
          the name of this Metro shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this subsection
          shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the Metro for the word
          "state" when that word is used as part of the title of the State Tax Commission,
          or of the Constitution of the state, nor shall the name of the Metro be substituted
          for that of the state when the result of that substitution would require action to be
          taken by or against the Metro or any agency thereof, rather than by or against the
          State Tax Commission in performing the functions incident to the administration
          or operation of this chapter.

3.04.11 0 - Administration-Contract     with State Tax Commission.

     Prior to the effective date of the ordinance codified herein, the Metro shall contract
with the State Tax Commission for the said Commission to perform all functions required
and incidental to the administration and operation of this chapter, and collect the taxes
levied hereunder. The records of the State Tax Commission, the Commission's
performance under the contract, and the records of any taxpayer subject to this tax shall
be subject to review and audit as provided in the contract and as by law. The State Tax
Commission shall be compensated for its services pursuant to the provisions of Utah
Code Ann.§ 59-12-206.

3. 04.120 - Violation-Penalty.

    Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
Class B misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punishable as set forth in
Chapter 1.12 of this code.
   Kearns Metro Townsl1ip
   5'7'7HS Clear Vista Cir Kearns, UT 841 HJ I 801-680-2282   I




   Utah State Tax Commission
   210 N 1%0 West
   SLC,UT 84134

   Subject: Req11est to move the Date of Enactment from April 1, 2017 to Ja,ly 1, Zill'/ for the Notice of
   Acceptance am! Remittance of !he Local Sales am! Use 'fax•· Kearns Metro Township

   Dear IJtah State Tax Commissimi:

   The Kearns Metro Township Council requests the Utah State Tax Commission change the dale of
   enactment on the request sent to the Commission dated December 15, 2016, from April J, 2017 to July 1,
   2017. This change ofcffective date is being requested lo accommodate the legislative actions and
   administrative work needed lo insure a smooth u·ansition of revenue distributions from Salt Lake County
   to Kearns, and ultimately the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District.

   The Council appreciates the time the Commission and Staff spent with our Council Chair clarifying the
   position of the Tax Commission and providing the information necessa1-y for the Council to make the
   necessary requested changes in a timely manner. Thank you for taking the time to help us understand and
   your otfor lo work with us as we move forward.

   If you need any additional information, please let us know.

   S]'i1
       ocrcly,      /,,_..)
      .,,,sL~-f\ ./ /_,..--~-// /
              (!(
   ----~:
       .....
         ~.-:::.J"-""\_---
                  ,-·'""""
                       ----
                        -~:::_~"'""''"'""'
                              ----
   S lcvcn A. Pchy, Chair

   ATTESJ'



    ~JJw~
~cSwen~cn
   Salt Lake County Clerk
   Metro Township Clerk/Recorder
