KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP
Ordinance No. 2021-01-01 Date: January 11, 2021
AN ORDINANCE REVISING THE DENSITY LIMITS FOR PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENTS AND DWELLING GROUPS WITHIN THE KEARNS METRO
TOWNSHIP CODE TO CONFORM TO THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP
GENERAL PLAN
WHEREAS, the Kearns Metro Township (“Kearns”) incorporated as a municipality in 2017; and
WHEREAS, Pursuant to Utah Code 10-2a-414, Kearns inherited the Salt Lake County Code, which
included certain density limits for planned unit developments and dwelling groups; and
WHEREAS, the Kearns Council adopted a new general plan on October 22, 2020, which organizes
Kearns into specific character areas and assigns new density limits to each character area; and
WHEREAS, the Kearns Council desires to revise the applicable density limits and make related
revisions in the Kearns Code to account for the new character areas and conform to the general plan.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL:
1. Section 19.04.190 is repealed and replaced with the following:
19.04.190 Dwelling Group
"Dwelling group" means a group of two or more dwellings located on a parcel of land in one
ownership and having any yard or court in common. A dwelling group does not include a single-
family residence with an accessory dwelling unit authorized under Chapter 19.15.
2. Section 19.04.215 is repealed and replaced with the following:
19.04.215 Dwelling Unit
"Dwelling unit" means one or more rooms physically arranged to create an independent
housekeeping establishment for occupancy by one family with separate toilets and facilities for
cooking and sleeping. Buildings with more than one kitchen or set of cooking facilities are
considered to contain more than one dwelling unit unless the additional cooking facilities are clearly
accessory to a dwelling unit as determined by the development services director. Factors for
determining whether cooking facilities are accessory to a dwelling unit may include but are not
limited to:
A. A building design which allows all occupants ready access to all portions of the building
including cooking facilities;
B. No portion of the building containing cooking facilities can be separated from the remaining
rooms to form a separate dwelling unit; and
C. There is only one electric and/or gas meter for the building.
Notwithstanding these provisions, a single-family residence with an accessory dwelling unit
authorized under Chapter 19.15 will constitute one dwelling unit.

13. The following portions of Section 19.78.030 are revised as follows:
19.78.030(B)
Open Space. Common and private open space shall be provided and shall cover no less than
Jorty percent of the gross site area. Common open space shall be provided in the amount of at
least twenty percent of the gross site area. For purposes of this chapter, gross site area is
defined as the total area of a planned unit development excluding anything in the public right-
of-way.
The required common open space shall be land areas that are not occupied by buildings,
dwellings, structures, parking areas, streets, public park strips, curb-gutter-sidewalk,
driveways, or alleys and shall be accessible by all residents of the development. Buildings
erected for the purpose of providing an amenity may be included as open space. Said open
space may be an area of land or water set aside, or reserved for use by residents of the
development, including an expanse of lawn, trees, plants, fully accessible landscaped roof
areas, or other natural areas. Common open space also includes common walkways (but not
curb-gutter-sidewalk), formal picnic areas, and recreational areas. Common open space may
be distributed throughout the development and need not be in a single large area. Common
open space may include sensitive areas, such as areas with thirty percent or greater slope, fault
zones, flood plains, high water tables, and wetlands, if they have been designed as an integral
element of the project.
Private open space is that space which is provided for each dwelling unit for personal use.
Private open space is typically located immediately adjacent to or attached to the dwelling unit
it is designed to serve and is for the exclusive use of the residents of the dwelling unit.
Landscaped roof areas, balconies, or decks attached to individual units are considered private
open space and are not to be calculated as part of required common open space.
LIFEO3ZOEHF)
19.78.030(K)
Site Plan. All developments shall be guided by a total design plan in which the following
development standards may be varied to allow density-bonuses-and flexibility and creativity in
site design and building location. The planning commission may require such arrangements of
structures, open spaces, landscaping, buffering, and access within the site development plan so
that adjacent properties will not be adversely affected. The following criteria shall be used by
the planning commission principally to assure the design objectives of this section are met.
1. Density. Subjeet-tothefollowing-density—bonuses, The density allowed for a development
shall be ne-greater-than-that-atlowed-in-thezonein-whieh-itistocated determined pursuant to
Chapter 19.96. Density shall be calculated using only net developable acreage. A-density-bernus

3

four-family dwellings 18.0 units per acre
multi-family dwellings 25.0units per acre
E. Recreation Hub: 0.0 dwelling unit per acre.
F. Neighborhood Mixed Use:
two-family dwellings 12.0 units per acre
three-family, four-family, .
and multi-family dwellings a
G. Kearns Corner:
two-family dwellings 12.0 units per acre
three-family dwellings 15.0 units per acre
four-family dwellings 18.0 units per acre
multi-family dwellings 25.0 units per acre
H. Walkable Commercial Center: 0.0 dwelling units per acre.
I. Moderate Income Housing Opportunities:
two-family dwellings 12.0 units per acre
three-family dwellings 15.0 units per acre
four-family dwellings 18.0 units per acre
multi-family dwellings 20.0 units per acre
5

APPROVED and ADOPTED this 11" day of January, 2021.
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
By: ar F. 2ush, a
Kelly Bush, Mayor
ATTEST APPROVED AS TO FORM:
herrie Swensen, Clerk/Recorder Nathan Bracken,
Metro Township Attorney
VOTING
Council Member Bush voting Yea
Council Member Butterfield voting Yea
Council Member Peterson voting Yea
Council Member Schaeffer voting Yea
Council Member Snow voting Yea
(Complete as applicable)
Summary of ordinance published in newspaper: | | 14 | 20 2(
Date of publication: | | 24 | 20 Z|
Effective date of ordinance: LZ | al 20 2
8

SUMMARY OF
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP ORDINANCE NO. 2021-01-01
On January 11, 2021, the Kearns Metro Township Council enacted Ordinance No 2021-
01-01, revising the density limits for planned unit development and dwelling groups within the
Kearns Metro Township Code. A complete copy of this ordinance is available in the office of the
Kearns Metro Township Clerk, located at 2001 South State Street, N2-700, Salt Lake City, Utah.
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
By: Rhy F Push, Map:
Kelly Bush, Mayor
ATTEST APPROVED AS TO FORM:
? or W nA.
Sherrie Swensen, Clerk/Recorder Nathan Bracken,
Metro Township Attorney
VOTING
Council Member Bush voting Yea
Council Member Butterfield voting Yea
Council Member Peterson voting Yea
Council Member Schaeffer voting Yea
Council Member Snow voting Yea
