                      FRANCHISE AGREEMENT
  KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP AND MCIMETRO ACCESS TRANSMISSION
   SERVICES CORP. D/B/A VERIZON ACCESS TRANSMISSION SERVICES

ORDINANCE NO. 20-04-01                                          April 6, 2020


       AN ORDINANCE GRANTING A FRANCHISE TO MCIMETRO ACCESS
       TRANSMISSION SERVICES CORP D/B/A VERIZON ACCESS
       TRANSMISSION SERVICES TO OPERATE AND MAINTAIN A
       TELECOMMUNICATIONS NETWORK IN KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP.

       THIS FRANCHISE AGREEMENT (hereinafter "Agreement") is entered into by and
between Kearns Metro Township, Utah (hereinafter "TOWNSHIP"), with principal offices at
4956 West 6200 West, Suite #527, Kearns, UT 84118, and MCIMETRO ACCESS
TRANSMISSION SERVICES CORP. d/b/a Verizon Access Transmission Services, a
Delaware corporation (hereinafter "PROVIDER") with its principal offices at 600 Hidden
Ridge, Irving, TX 75038.

                                  W I T N ES S E T H:

       WHEREAS, the PROVIDER desires to provide voice, data or video transmission
services within the TOWNSHIP and in connection therewith to establish a
telecommunications network in, under, along, over and across present and future rights-of-
way of the TOWNSHIP; and

       WHEREAS, the TOWNSHIP, in exercise of its management of public Rights-of-Way,
believes that it is in the best interest of the public to provide the PROVIDER a nonexclusive
franchise to operate a telecommunications network in the TOWNSHIP.

        NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements of the
parties contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the TOWNSHIP and
the PROVIDER agree as follows:

                      ARTICLE 1. FRANCHISE AGREEMENT.

        1.1 Agreement. Upon execution by the parties, this Agreement shall be deemed to
constitute a contract by and between TOWNSHIP and PROVIDER.

       1.2 Franchise Description. The Telecommunications Franchise provided hereby shall
confer upon the PROVIDER the nonexclusive right, privilege, and franchise to construct and
maintain a telecommunications network in, under, above and across the present and future
public Rights-of-Way in the TOWNSHIP. The franchise does not grant to the PROVIDER
the right, privilege or authority to engage in community antenna (or cable) television
business; although, nothing contained herein shall preclude the PROVIDER from: (1)
permitting those with a cable franchise who are lawfully engaged in such business to utilize




                                             1
the PROVIDER's System within the TOWNSHIP for such purposes; or (2) from providing
such service in the future if an appropriate franchise is obtained and all other legal
requirements have been satisfied or (3) leasing all or a part of PROVIDER’s telecommunications
network to affiliates or third parties, provided that PROVIDER maintains ownership of the
telecommunications network. Nothing in this Agreement shall limit or in any way limit or negate
the obligations of third parties that use or lease PROVIDER’s system to comply with all applicable
laws, regulations, and TOWNSHIP Ordinances.

       1.3 Licenses. The PROVIDER acknowledges that it has obtained the necessary
approvals, licenses or permits required by federal and state law to provide telecommunication
services consistent with the provisions of this Agreement.

       1.4 Relationship. Nothing herein shall be deemed to create a joint venture or principal-
agent relationship between the parties and neither party is authorized to, nor shall either party
act toward third persons or the public in any manner that would indicate any such relationship
with each other.

                               ARTICLE 2. FRANCHISE FEE.

      2.1 Utah Code Ann. § 10-3c-204 currently prohibits the Township from imposing a
municipal telecommunication’s license tax as that term is defined in Chapter 1, Part 4, of Utah’s
Municipal Telecommunications License Tax Act, Utah Code Ann. § 10-1-401, et. seq.

       2.2 Franchise Fee. If Utah law, including but not limited to Utah Code Ann. § 10-3c-204,
is modified to allow the TOWNSHIP to impose a municipal telecommunications license tax, the
PROVIDER shall pay to the TOWNSHIP a tax in accordance with the Municipal
Telecommunication License Tax Act (Utah Code Ann. 10-1-401 to l0-1-410), less any
business license fee or business license tax enacted by the TOWNSHIP. All payments shall
be made to the Utah State Tax Commission, and sent as follows:

                                  Utah State Tax Commission
                                     210 North 1950 West
                                  Salt Lake City, Utah 84134

        2.3 Equal Treatment. TOWNSHIP agrees that if any service forming part of the base
for calculating the franchise fee under this Agreement is, or becomes, subject to competition
from a third party, the TOWNSHIP will either impose and collect from such third party a fee
or tax on Gross Revenues from such competing service in the same percentage specified
herein, plus the percentage specified as a utility revenue tax or license fee in the then current
ordinances of the TOWNSHIP, or waive collection of the fees provided for herein that are
subject to such competition.

                           ARTICLE 3. TERM AND RENEWAL.

       3.1 Term and Renewal. The franchise granted to PROVIDER shall be for a period of
ten (10) years commencing on the first day of the month following execution of this




                                                2
Agreement by the TOWNSHIP, unless this Franchise be sooner terminated as herein
provided. At the end of the initial ten (10) year term of this Agreement, the franchise granted
herein may be renewed by the PROVIDER upon the same terms and conditions as contained
in this Agreement for an additional five (5) year term, by providing to the TOWNSHIP's
representative designated herein written notice of the PROVIDER's intent to renew not less
than ninety (90) calendar days before the expiration of the initial franchise term.

       3.2 Rights of PROVIDER upon Expiration or Revocation. Upon expiration of the
franchise granted herein, whether by lapse or time, by agreement between the PROVIDER
and the TOWNSHIP, or by revocation or forfeiture, the PROVIDER shall have the right to
remove from the Rights-of-Way any and all of its System, but in such event, it shall be the
duty of the PROVIDER, immediately upon such removal to restore the Rights-of-Way from
which such System is removed to as good condition as the same was before the removal was
effected.

                           ARTICLE 4. PUBLIC USE RIGHTS.

        4.1 Township Uses of Poles and Overhead Structures. The TOWNSHIP shall have the
right, without cost, to use all poles owned by the PROVIDER within the TOWNSHIP for fire
alarms, police signal systems, or any lawful public use; provided, however, any said uses by
the TOWNSHIP shall be for activities owned, operated or used by the TOWNSHIP for any
public purposes and shall not include the provision of telecommunications service to third
parties.

        4.2 Limitations on Use Rights. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to require
the Provider to increase pole capacity, alter the manner in which the PROVIDER attached
equipment to the poles, or alter the manner in which the PROVIDER operates and maintains
its equipment. Such TOWNSHIP attachments shall be installed and maintained in accordance
with the reasonable requirements of the PROVIDER and the current National Electrical
Safety Code. TOWNSHIP attachments shall be attached or installed only after written
approval by the PROVIDER, which approval will be processed in a timely manner and will
not be unreasonably withheld.

       4.3 Maintenance of TOWNSHIP Facilities. The TOWNSHIP’s use rights shall also
be subject to the parties reaching an agreement regarding the TOWNSHIP's maintenance of
the TOWNSHIP attachments.

                             ARTICLE 5. POLICE POWERS.

        5.1 TOWNSHIP expressly reserves, and the PROVIDER expressly recognizes, the
TOWNSHIP's right and duty to adopt, from time to time, in addition to provisions herein
contained, such ordinances and rules and regulations as the TOWNSHIP may deem necessary
in the exercise of its police power for the protection of the health, safety and welfare of its
citizens and their properties.




                                              3
          ARTICLE 6. CHANGING CONDITIONS AND SEVERABILITY.

        6.1 Meet to Confer. The PROVIDER and the TOWNSHIP recognize that many
aspects of the telecommunication business are currently the subject of discussion, examination
and inquiry by different segments of the industry and affected regulatory authorities and that
these activities may ultimately result in fundamental changes in the way the PROVIDER
conducts its business and the way the TOWNSHIP regulates the business. In recognition of
the present state of uncertainty respecting these matters, the PROVIDER and the TOWNSHIP
each agree, upon request of the other during the term of this Agreement, to meet with the
other and discuss in good faith whether it would be appropriate, in view of developments of
the kind referred to above during the term of this Agreement, to amend this Agreement or
enter into separate, mutually satisfactory arrangements to effect a proper accommodation of
any such developments.

   ARTICLE 7. EARLY TERMINATION, REVOCATION OF FRANCHISE AND
                        OTHER REMEDIES.

      7.1 Grounds for Termination. The TOWNSHIP may terminate or revoke this
Agreement and all rights and privileges herein provided for any of the following reasons:

   (a) The PROVIDER fails to make timely payments of the franchise fee as required under
       Article 2 of this Agreement and does not correct such failure within sixty (60) calendar
       days after written notice by the TOWNSHIP of such failure;

   (b) The PROVIDER, by act or omission, materially violates a material duty herein set
       forth in any particular within the PROVIDER's control, and with respect to which
       redress is not otherwise herein provided. In such event, the TOWNSHIP, acting by or
       through its TOWNSHIP Council, may determine, after hearing, that such failure is of
       a material nature, and thereupon, after written notice giving the PROVIDER notice of
       such determination, the PROVIDER, within sixty (60) calendar days of such notice,
       shall commence efforts to remedy the conditions identified in the notice and shall have
       ninety (90) calendar days from the date it receives notice to remedy the conditions.
       After the expiration of such 90-day period and failure to correct such conditions, the
       TOWNSHIP may declare the franchise forfeited and this Agreement terminated, and
       thereupon, the PROVIDER shall have no further rights or authority hereunder;
       provided, however, that any such declaration of forfeiture and termination shall be
       subject to judicial review as provided by law;

   (c) For any period of performance or cure under this Agreement, the time period within which
       PROVIDER is to perform or cure, as the case may be, shall be extended, without liability
       to PROVIDER, for at least as long as PROVIDER’s ability to perform or cure is delayed
       for reasons beyond PROVIDER’s control that are due to Acts of God, war, civil
       disturbance, strike or other events that beyond PROVIDER’S reasonable control
       (collectively, a “FORCE MAJEURE EVENT”), provided that PROVIDER shall employ
       all commercially reasonable efforts to eliminate or mitigate the impact of said reasons and
       to thereafter reasonably accelerate, where feasible, its performance or cure; or




                                               4
   (d) The PROVIDER becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay its debts, is adjudged
       bankrupt, or all or part of its facilities should be sold under an instrument to secure a
       debt and is not redeemed by the PROVIDER within sixty (60) days.

        7.2 Reserved Rights. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to preclude the
PROVIDER from pursuing any legal or equitable rights or remedies it may have to challenge
the action of the TOWNSHIP.

        7.3 Remedies at Law. If the PROVIDER or the TOWNSHIP fails to fulfill any of its
respective obligations under this Agreement, the TOWNSHIP or the PROVIDER, whichever
the case may be, shall have a breach of contract claim and remedy against the other, in
addition to any other remedy provided herein or by law; provided, however, that no remedy
that would have the effect of amending the specific provisions of this agreement shall become
effective without such action that would be necessary to formally amend the Agreement.

        7.4 Third Party Beneficiaries. The benefits and protection provided by this Agreement
shall inure solely to the benefit of the TOWNSHIP and the PROVIDER. This Agreement shall
not be deemed to create any right in any person who is not a party and shall not be construed
in any respect to be a contract in whole or in part for the benefit of any third party (other than
the permitted successors and assigns of a party hereto).

                           ARTICLE 8. PARTIES' DESIGNEES.

       8.1 TOWNSHIP designee and Address. The TOWNSHIP Mayor or his or her
designee(s) shall serve as the TOWNSHIP's representative regarding administration of this
Agreement. Unless otherwise specified herein, all notices from the PROVIDER to the
TOWNSHIP pursuant to or concerning this Agreement, shall be delivered to the
TOWNSHIP's representative at Kearns Metro Township, 4957 West 6200 South, P.O. Box
527, Kearns, UT 84118, or such other officer and address as the TOWNSHIP may designate
by written notice to the PROVIDER.

        8.2 PROVIDER Designee and Address. The PROVIDER's Franchise Manager or
his or her designee(s) shall serve as the PROVIDER's representative regarding
administration of this Agreement. Unless otherwise specified herein, all notices from the
TOWNSHIP to the PROVIDER pursuant to or concerning this Agreement, shall be
delivered to PROVIDER's headquarter offices at Verizon Access Transmission Services,
Attn: Franchise Manager, 600 Hidden Ridge Mail code: HQE02E102, Irving, TX 75038, with
copy (except for invoices) to: Verizon Legal Department, Attn: Network Legal Team, 1300 I
Street, NW, 5th Floor, Washington, DC 20005, and such other office as the PROVIDER may
designate by written notice to the TOWNSHIP.

       8.3 Failure of Designee. The failure or omission of the TOWNSHIP's or PROVIDER's
representative to act shall not constitute any waiver or estoppels by the TOWNSHIP or
PROVIDER.




                                                5
                ARTICLE 9. INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION

        9.1 Insurance. Prior to commencing operations in the TOWNSHIP pursuant to this
Agreement, the PROVIDER shall furnish to the TOWNSHIP evidence that it has adequate
general liability and property damage insurance. The evidence may consist of a statement that
the PROVIDER is effectively self-insured if the PROVIDER has substantial financial
resources, as evidenced by its current certified financial statements and established credit
rating, or substantial assets located in the State of Utah. Any and all insurance, whether
purchased by the PROVIDER from a commercial carrier, whether provided through a self-
insured program, or whether provided in some other form or other program, shall be in a
form, in an amount and of a scope of coverage acceptable to the TOWNSHIP.

         9.2 Indemnification. The PROVIDER agrees to indemnify, defend and hold the
TOWNSHIP harmless from and against any and all claims, demands, liens, and all liability
or damage of whatsoever kind on account of or arising from the PROVIDER's acts or
omissions pursuant to or related to this Agreement, and to pay any and all costs, including
reasonable attorneys' fees, incurred by the TOWNSHIP in defense of such claims. The
TOWNSHIP shall promptly give written notice to the PROVIDER of any claim, demand,
lien, liability, or damage, with respect to which the TOWNSHIP seeks indemnification and,
unless in the TOWNSHIP's judgment a conflict of interest may exist between the parties with
respect to the claim, demand, lien, liability, or damage, the TOWNSHIP shall permit the
PROVIDER to assume the defense of such with counsel of the PROVIDER's choosing, unless
the TOWNSHIP reasonably objects to such counsel. Notwithstanding any provision of this
Section to the contrary, the PROVIDER shall not be obligated to indemnify, defend or hold
the TOWNSHIP harmless to the extent any claim, demand, lien, damage, or liability arises
out of or in connection with negligent acts or omissions of the TOWNSHIP or PROVIDER
suffers a FORCE MAJEURE EVENT.

                 ARTICLE 10. INSTALLATION AND OPERATIONS

        10.1 Coordinated Installation. In order to prevent and/or minimize the number of cuts
to and excavations within the TOWNSHIP Rights-of-Way, PROVIDER shall provide written
notice to the TOWNSHIP and other providers or users of the TOWNSHIP Rights-of-Way,
before such cuts, excavations, and installations are made. When possible, installation, repairs,
maintenance of lines and facilities, or other activities (“INSTLLATION ACTIVITES”)
undertaken by PROVIDER that involve the TOWNSHIP Rights-of-Way shall be made in the
same trench and at the time other INSTALLATION ACTIVITIES are conducted within the
TOWNSHIP Rights-of-Way and will be made in accordance with all applicable, laws,
regulations, and TOWNSHIP ordinances and policies. PROVIDER will be entitled to request
in writing and receive from TOWNSHIP any available schedules of street repairs in advance
of TOWNSHIP work which schedule may be subject to change based upon funding. In
addition, PROVIDER will be entitled to request and receive meetings with TOWNSHIP to
obtain updates to road projects and opportunities to share costs on burying lines.

      10.2 Underground Installation. In portions of the TOWNSHIP where other utilities
are underground, PROVIDER shall construct its facilities underground. PROVIDER




                                               6
expressly agrees to conduct all INSTALLATION ACTIVITIES and maintain all of its
facilities in accordance with all applicable laws, regulations, and TOWNSHIP Ordinances
regarding the undergrounding of utility lines, in effect at the time this Agreement is entered
into and as subsequently amended during the term of this Agreement. PROVIDER may be
permitted to install facilities overhead if (1) it is infeasible to go underground at the time; (2)
lines can be placed on already existing poles; and (3) PROVIDER agrees to move the facilities
underground when the TOWNSHIP directs and so long as the TOWNSHIP, at the same time,
directs other franchises with overhead facilities in the same location to move their facilities
underground. Nothing herein shall require PROVIDER to convert existing overhead facilities
to underground facilities until and unless other similarly situated providers in the same
location are required to do so.

        10.3 Trimming/Cutting Trees. PROVIDER upon consultation with the TOWNSHIP,
shall have the right to trim and keep clear of its poles, wires, cables, underground conduits,
manholes, and other conductors and fixtures, the trees in and along the TOWNSHIP Rights-of-
Way. ln the exercise of such right, PROVIDER shall not cut or otherwise injure any trees to any
greater extent than is reasonably necessary.

        10.4 Restoration. PROVIDER shall cause to be restored, reconstructed, or repaired any
TOWNSHIP Right-of-Way, as well as any sewer, gas, effluent, water main, pipe, or fire alarm,
disturbed or destroyed by the exercise of any right granted to PROVIDER by this Agreement in
accordance with applicable law and TOWNSHIP Ordinances, as amended. If the TOWNSHIP
determines PROVIDER has not made such restoration, reconstruction, or repair in a reasonably
satisfactory manner, TOWNSHIP, after giving PROVIDER written notice and an opportunity to
correct such failure, shall have the right to carry out such restoration, reconstruction, or repair, and
PROVIDER shall reimburse TOWNSHIP in full for all reasonable expenses incurred by the
TOWNSHIP in carrying out all or part of such restoration, reconstruction, or repair.

        10.5 Safety. PROVIDER shall at all times employ ordinary care and shall install and
maintain in use commonly accepted methods and devices for preventing failure and accidents
which are likely to cause damage, injuries, or nuisances to the public. All INSTALLATION
ACTIVITIES in, over, under, and upon the TOWNSHIP Rights-of-Way shall at all times be kept
and maintained in a safe, suitable, substantial condition, and in good order and repair. Any opening
or obstruction in the TOWNSHIP Rights-of-Way shall be guarded and protected at all times by
placement of adequate barriers, fences, or boardings, the bounds of which shall be clearly
designated by warning lights.

       10.6 Protection of Traffic During Installation Activity. To the extent an
INSTALLATION ACTIVITY will impact traffic, PROVIDER will minimize interference
with or interruption of traffic to the greatest extent possible. PROVIDER will conform to
such instructions that TOWNSHIP or TOWNSHIP’s agent may provide with respect to the
handling of traffic, and will at all times maintain such watchmen, barricades, lights or other
measures for the protection of traffic as may be required to warn and safeguard the public
against injury or damage during PROVIDER’s INSTALLATION ACTIVITIES.

        10.7 Inspection. TOWNSHIP shall have the right to inspect all construction or
installation work performed in, over, under, and upon the TOWNSHIP Rights-of-Way, subject to



                                                   7
the provisions of this Agreement, and make such inspections as it shall find necessary to ensure
compliance with the terms of this Agreement

       10.8 Poles/Structures. No new poles or structures shall be erected by PROVIDER
without prior approval of TOWNSHIP, through established permit procedures pursuant to
applicable TOWNSHIP Code provision, as amended.

        10.9 Removal or Relocation of Infrastructure. It is expressly understood and agreed
by the parties hereto and as part of the consideration for this agreement that the TOWNSHIP
or TOWNSHIP’S agent will have the right to require removal or relocation of any
infrastructure PROVIDER may install within the TOWNSHIP Rights-of-Way whenever
TOWNSHIP determines that the infrastructure negatively affects public health, safety, and welfare
or that relocation of the infrastructure is necessary for construction, reconstruction, or
maintenance of the TOWNSHIP public Rights-of-Way and related public infrastructure,
including but not limited to highway expansion or reconstruction, storm drain installation or
maintenance, and curb, gutter, and sidewalk installation or maintenance. TOWNSHIP or
TOWNSHIP’s agent will give PROVIDER thirty (30) days’ notice before construction is to
commence.

        10.10 Temporary Relocation when Requested by Township. PROVIDER shall, upon
reasonable notice from the Township, protect, support, temporarily disconnect or relocate its
property in the Streets, Roads, or Public Rights-of-Way when required by the Township or State
by reason of traffic conditions, public safety, street closing or abandonment, highway or street
construction, change or establishment of street grade, or any other types of public structures or
public improvements. The Township shall bear the cost to the extent such request for relocation
or disconnection is for aesthetic purposes.

        10.11 Temporary Relocation when Requested by Third Parties. PROVIDER shall, on the
request of any Person holding a building-moving permit issued by the TOWNSHIP, temporarily
relocate its facilities to permit the moving of buildings, water, effluent, or sewer lines on
TOWNSHIP Rights-of-Way. The expense of such relocation shall be paid by the Person
requesting the same, and PROVIDER shall have the authority to require such payment.
PROVIDER shall be given not less than thirty (30) days' notice to arrange for such relocation,
unless such notice is not possible due to an emergency that poses an imminent threat to public
health, safety, and welfare.

        10.12 No Interference. PROVIDER shall not intentionally interfere with wireless
connections of persons not served by PROVIDER, nor shall PROIVDER’s wireline network or
use of the TOWNSHIP Rights-of-Way interfere with, obstruct, or hinder in any manner, the
operation of the various other utilities serving the residents within the confines of the Township,
including but not limited to the Township’s communication systems, water system, sewer system,
fire department system, police department system, public works systems, or court system.




                                                8
                          ARTICLE 11. GENERAL PROVISIONS

       11.1 Binding Agreement. The parties represent that: (a) when executed by their
respective parties, this Agreement shall constitute legal and binding obligations of the parties;
and (b) each party has complied with all relevant statutes, ordinances, resolutions, by-laws
and other legal requirements applicable to their operation in entering into this Agreement.

       11.2 Utah Law. This Agreement shall be interpreted pursuant to Utah law.

       11.3 Time of Essence. Time shall be of the essence of this Agreement.

        11.4 Interpretation of Agreement. The invalidity of any portion of this Agreement shall
not prevent the remainder from being carried into effect. Whenever the context of any
provision shall require it, the singular number shall be held to include the plural number and
vice versa, and the use of any gender shall include any other and all genders. The paragraphs
and section headings in this Agreement are for convenience only and do not constitute a part
of the provisions hereof.

       11.5 No Presumption. All parties have participated in preparing this Agreement.
Therefore, the parties stipulate that any court interpreting or construing the Agreement shall
not apply the rule of construction that the Agreement should be more strictly construed
against the drafting party.

      11.6 Amendments. This Agreement may be modified or amended by written
agreement only. No oral modifications or amendments shall be effective.

      11.7 Binding Agreement. This Agreement shall be binding upon the heirs, successors,
administrators and assigns of each of the parties.

       11.8 This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, but all such
counterparts will be deemed but one original Agreement for all intents and purposes.

                                    [execution on following page]




                                               9
                              SUMMARY OF
               KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP ORDINANCE NO. 20-04-01

       Kearns Metro Township Ordinance No. 20-04-01 grants a franchise to MCImetro
Access Transmission Services, Corp. d/b/a/ Verizon Access Transmission Services to operate
and maintain a telecommunications network in Kearns Metro Township; setting forth
conditions accompanying the grant of the franchise; providing for Township regulation and
administration of the telecommunications network; and prescribing penalties for violation
of the franchise provision.

      A copy of Ordinance No. 20-04-01 is available in the office of the Kearns Metro
Township, located at:

                                    4956 West 6200 South
                                        P.O. Box 527
                                     Kearns, Utah 84118



KEARNS MTERO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL


By ______________________________
   Chair/Mayor


ATTEST (SEAL)


By _____________________________
   Kearns Metro Township Clerk


Council Member Bush voting                 Yea
                                           _____
Council Member Butterfield voting          Yea
                                           _____
Council Member Peterson voting             Yea
                                           _____
Council Member Schaeffer voting            Yea
                                           _____
Council Member Snow voting                 Yea
                                           _____




                                             11
                              ACCEPTANCE OF FRANCHISE

        This is to certify that MCIMetro Access Transmission Services Corp. d/b/a Verizon Access
Transmission Services (“Franchisee”) accepts the franchise to construct and maintain a
telecommunications network in, under, above and across the present and future public rights-
of-way in the Kearns Metro Township, State of Utah, as evidenced by Ordinance No.
20-04-01 and adopted by the Kearns Metro Township Council on April 6, 2020. Franchisee
accepts the franchise as approved and agrees that it will be bound by and observe and carry out
the terms and conditions of the franchise.

        Franchisee designates the following representative to receive and respond to issues in
connection with the franchise, and such other office as Franchisee may designate by written
notice to the Kearns Metro Township:

       Verizon Access Transmission Services
       Attn: Franchise Manager
       600 Hidden Ridge Mail code: HQE02E102
       Irving, TX 75038

       With copy (except for invoices) to:

       Verizon Legal Department
       Attn: Network Legal Team
       1300 I Street, NW, 5th Floor
       Washington, DC 20005,

       Dated this ___20th day of __April_______, 2020.


                                                   MCIMETRO ACCESS TRANSMISSION
                                                   SERVICES CORP. D/B/A VERIZON
                                                   ACCESS TRANSMISSION SERVICES


                                                   ___________________________________

                                                   Robert J. Hayes

                                                   By its: Sr. Manager - Network Eng. & Ops.




                                              12
