KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE No. _|4- 6\- 0\ Vahualy \+ , 2019
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS 19.04.315 AND 19.80.035 OF THE UNIFORM ZONING
| ORDINANCE OF KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP, UTAH BY AMENDING THE DEFINITION OF
| “JUNK” AND CLARIFYING THE ALLOWABLE PARKING SURFACE FOR VEHICLES IN
RESIDENTIAL ZONES.

The Kearns Metro Township Council hereby ordains as follows:

SECTION I. The amendments made herein are designated by underlining the new substituted words.

Words being deleted are designated by brackets and interlineations.

SECTION II. Section 19.04.315 of the Uniform Zoning Ordinance of Kearns Metro Township, Utah is

hereby amended as follows:

19.04.315 - Junk.

A. "Junk" means any salvaged or scrap copper, brass, iron, steel, metal, rope, rags, batteries, paper, wood,
trash, plastic, rubber, tires, waste or other articles or materials commonly designated as junk. Junk,
except as provided in subsections (B) or (C), shall also mean any dismantled, wrecked or inoperable
motor vehicles or recreational vehicles or parts thereof which are stored or parked on property outside
of an enclosed building and which remain in such condition for a period of time in excess of sixty
days. An automobile, truck or bus shall be considered inoperable if it is not currently registered and
licensed in this state or another state.

G) One truck, [yith-a-capacity- ef eneten-ertess—or] automobile. or recreational vehicle, (hereafter
“vehicle,”) which is not currently licensed and registered in this state or another state [butis-ctherwise
eperable] may be [stered-on-prepertyfer-a_peried net te-exceed_tweo-years if it is-secured with the

p gjags
two-years] parked on private property on a parking surface in compliance with section 19.80.035 of
this ordinance, provided:
1. The fautemebite ertruck] vehicle is secured with the windows closed, the trunk and hood closed
and the doors locked and is not damaged exposing jagged metal; and
2. The [autemebile-crtruck] vehicle is completely on private property and not encroaching on any
sidewalk, park strip, or [shal net-be-visible-from-any] public street; and
3. The vehicle does not drip any fluids such as oil, transmission fluid, brake fluid, coolant, etc. onto
the parking surface or its surroundings. [autemebile-er-truekis-entirely concealed-by-a-covering
fromthe date-ofthe-enactment of this section-orany-amendment therete-]
l

SECTION Ill. Section 19.80.035 of the Uniform Zoning Ordinance of Kearns Metro Township, Utah is
| hereby amended as follows:
| 19.80.035 - Parking in R-1 and R-2 Residential Zones.
A. Driveways. A driveway shall be provided for vehicular access from the street or right-of-way to the
required parking spaces of any dwelling in an R-1 or R-2 zone. The driveway shall be constructed of
| a durable, hard surface such as: concrete (including permeable concrete), asphalt (including permeable
asphalt), brick, pavers, stone, or block. The number, location, and width of driveways shall comply
with the specifications set forth in sections 14.12.110 and 14.36.060 of the metro township Code of
| Ordinances. Driveways over one hundred fifty feet in length are subject to approval by the fire
| authority. The area within the front yard of any single- or two-family dwelling not occupied by a
driveway or parking surface set forth above shall be landscaped in compliance with the applicable
provisions of this title regulating landscaping. In no case shall paved or gravel parking areas or
driveways occupy more than 50% of the area of a front or rear yard.

B. Private vehicles. Private vehicles parked on residential property in any R-1 or R-2 zone shall [eomply
4+,—4]be parked or stored on a paved surface in compliance with section 19.80.030.C or 19.83.035.A,
[a-private-vehicle-may-beteeated] in the front yard, side yard, or rear yard of a dwelling.

[2-H parked or stored on any other type of surface, private -vehicles-must-be behind the frontline of

C. Recreational Vehicles. Recreational vehicles parked or stored on residential property in any R-1 or R-
2 zone shall [compl withthe felewine:
4+-—¥]] be parked or stored on a paved surface in compliance with section 19.80.030.C or 19.83.035.A,
[a-+tecreational yehicle-may—beleeated] in the front yard, side yard, or rear yard of a dwelling.
Additionally, a recreational vehicle may be parked or stored on a parking pad which is constructed of
six inches of compacted gravel. This area must be kept weed free.

[2- If parked or stored on-any-other type-of surface, recreational yehicles-must be behind the font

D. Commercial vehicles. Commercial vehicles shall not be parked or stored on residential property in an
R-1 or R-2 zone, except in the following circumstances:

1. Commercial vehicles may be parked on a property in conjunction with lawfully- permitted
construction, maintenance, or site development activities so long as said activities are diligently
pursued.
2. One commercial vehicle may be parked behind the front line of the dwelling and, screened from
view from public streets or neighboring properties with a six-foot tall (minimum) opaque fence,
provided it is parked on a paved surface in compliance with section 19.80.030D or 19.83.035A.
3. One commercial vehicle may be parked in the front yard or side yard of a dwelling, in the R-1 or
R-2 zones upon issuance of a permit by planning and development services, as long as all of the
following criteria are met:

a. No other commercial vehicle is parked or stored on the property.

2

b. The operator of the vehicle is required to be on call 24 hours a day to use the vehicle in response
to an emergency;
c. The commercial vehicle is parked on a paved surface in compliance with section 19.80.030.C
or 19.80.035.A;
d. The commercial vehicle is parked entirely on private property, not parked on or over the street
or sidewalk; and
e. The commercial vehicle does not exceed Class 5 (two-axle, six tire single unit trucks) in
Federal Highway Administration vehicle classification.
SECTION IV.
This ordinance shall take effect fifteen (15) days after its passage and upon at least one publication in a
newspaper published in and having general circulation in Kearns Metro Township, and if not so published
within fifteen (15) days then it shall take effect immediately upon its first publication.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Kearns Metro Township Council has approved, passed and
adopted this ordinance this__\\ day of Sow a0 a , 2019.
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Kearns Metro Township Attorney
Date:_1/14/2019
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
IN
MAXOR
A | we
Sherrie Swensen, County Clerk
Council Member Brown voting Syps—
Council Member Bush voting Svs
Council Member Schaeffer voting See
Council Member Snow voting BINT
Council Member Peterson voting Sg
3
