KEARNS CITY COUNCIL
FRANCHISE ORDINANCE
QUESTAR GAS COMPANY

ORDINANCE NO. 2025-0-05 DATE February 10, 2025

AN ORDINANCE GRANTING TO QUESTAR GAS COMPANY d/b/a

DOMINION ENERGY UTAH A NONEXCLSUIVE FRANCHISE FOR THE

CONSTRUCTION, OPERATION, AND MAINTENANCE OF A NATURAL

GAS DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM WITHIN THE CITY OF KEARNS, STATE OF

UTAH.

WITNESSETH

WHEREAS, Questar Gas Company d/b/a Dominion Energy Utah, a Utah corporation,
(“Dominion Energy”), is a regulated public utility that provides natural gas distribution service;
and

WHEREAS, Dominion Energy desires to construct, maintain, and operate a natural gas
distribution system within the City of Kearns (“Kearns”); and

WHEREAS, providing a natural gas distribution system requires the installation,
operation, and maintenance of pipelines and other gas transmission appurtenances to be located
within or near the public rights-of-way; and

WHEREAS, Kearns, acting pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-8-21, has the authority to
regulate natural gas distribution system facilities within its public rights-of-way and to grant to
Dominion Energy a general utility easement for the use thereof; and

WHEREAS, the Kearns City Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the
City’s citizens to grant a nonexclusive franchise to Dominion Energy to use the roads and streets
within the City for such purpose; and

WHEREAS, Kearns desires to set forth the terms and conditions by which Dominion
Energy will use its public rights-of-way.

NOW, THEREFORE, the Kearns City Council ordains as follows (“Ordinance”):

FRANCHISE

SECTION 1. Grant of Franchise and General Utility Easement. Kearns grants to
Dominion Energy a nonexclusive franchise (“Franchise”) to construct, maintain, and operate in
the present and future roads, streets, alleys, highways, and other public rights-of-way within City
limits, including any property annexed or otherwise acquired by Kearns after the effective date of
this Franchise, (collectively “Streets”) a distribution system for furnishing natural gas to the City
and its inhabitants for heating and other purposes. Dominion Energy will have the right, privilege,
and authority to erect, construct, equip, maintain, upgrade, and relocate along, over, and under the
Streets a system of mains, pipes, laterals, gas regulation stations, valves, valve boxes, and cathodic
protection facilities, and related equipment (collectively “Gas Facilities”) as are reasonably
necessary for supplying natural gas service in accordance with this Franchise.

SECTION 2. Nonexclusive Franchise. Dominion Energy’s right to use and occupy the
Streets will be nonexclusive. Kearns reserves the right to use the Streets for itself or any other
entity that provides service to residences and business located within the City; provided, however,
that such use will not unreasonably interfere with Dominion Energy’s Gas Facilities or Dominion
Energy’s rights as granted within this Franchise.

SECTION 3. Term. This Franchise is granted for an initial term of thirty (30) years. At
the expiration of the initial term, the Franchise will continue in effect upon the same terms and
conditions for up to two additional terms (each of which is a renewal period) of fifteen (15) years
each. Kearns may terminate the Franchise at the end of the initial term, or at the end of any renewal
period, by giving Dominion Energy written notice of the City’s intent to so terminate not less than
ninety (90) calendar days before the expiration of the initial term or any renewal period

SECTION 4. Consideration. In consideration of this Franchise, Dominion Energy will
pay to Kearns the sum of $50.00 upon acceptance of this Franchise and will provide natural gas
service in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Franchise.

SECTION 5. Acceptance by Dominion Energy.

5.1 Unconditional, Written Acceptance of Franchise. Within sixty (60) days
after the passage of this Ordinance, Dominion Energy will file with the City
Clerk/Recorder an unconditional written acceptance thereof, declaring its acceptance of the
Franchise and its intention to be bound by the Franchise’s terms and conditions. Dominion
Energy will use the “Acceptance of Franchise” form provided herein for accepting the
Franchise.

5.2 Failure to Accept within 60-Day Acceptance Period. If Dominion Energy
fails to accept the Franchise within the prescribed 60-day acceptance period, this Ordinance
and Franchise will be considered null and void.

SECTION 6. City Regulatory Authority. In addition to the provisions contained in this
Franchise, Kearns reserves the right to adopt such additional ordinances and regulations as may be
deemed necessary in the exercise of its police power for the protection of the health, safety, and

welfare of its citizens and their properties, or exercise any other rights, powers, or duties required
or authorized, under the Constitution of the State of Utah, the laws of Utah, Kearns Municipal
Ordinance, or other applicable law or regulation. Dominion Energy reserves all lawful right to
oppose or challenge any such ordinance or regulation as provided by law.
SECTION 7. Plan, Design, Construction, and Installation of Gas Facilities.
7.1 Compliance with City Ordinances. Dominion Energy will comply with all
City ordinances, regulations, and requirements and will pay all applicable
excavation fees and charges that are or may be prescribed by Kearns, with respect
to the construction, maintenance, and operation of all Gas Facilities.
7.1.1 Conflict. However, these obligations will apply only so long as
such ordinances, regulations, requirements, or fees are not preempted by
or otherwise in conflict with any applicable statutory or constitutional law,
rule, or regulation, or the tariffs approved by regulatory bodies having
jurisdiction over Dominion Energy, including this Franchise and any
lawful revisions made and accepted by Dominion Energy during the term
of the Franchise.
7.2 Conformity with Gas Distribution Construction Practices. All Gas
Facilities will be constructed in accordance with established gas distribution
construction practices and in such fashion as to protect the Gas Facilities from all
traffic loads.
7.3 Visual Appearance of Installed Gas Facilities. Without unreasonable
additional cost to Dominion Energy, all Gas Facilities that are installed during the
term of the Franchise will be sited to be visually unobtrusive and to preserve the
natural beauty and neighborhood aesthetics within City limits.
7.4 Right to Inspect. Kearns will have the right to inspect the construction,
maintenance, and operation of all Gas Facilities to ensure proper compliance with
applicable City ordinances, regulations, and requirements.
7.5 Failure to Comply. If Dominion Energy should fail to comply with the terms
of any City ordinance, regulation, or requirement, Kearns will give Dominion
Energy written notice of such non-compliance and the time for correction
provided by ordinance or a reasonable time for correction if there is no time frame
provided by the applicable ordinance, regulation, or requirement.
7,5.1 Self-Correction. Excluding any correction, modification, or change
to the Gas Facilities, and after written notice and failure of Dominion
Energy to make correction, Kearns may, at its sole risk, make such
correction itself and charge the cost to Dominion Energy including any
minimum cost provided by ordinance.

7.5.2 Changes or Corrections to Gas Facilities. Kearns will not make,
nor request or allow any party other than Dominion Energy, to make
changes or corrections of any kind to Dominion Energy’s Gas Facilities.
7.6 Construction Permit Requirement. Except in the case of an emergency,
Dominion Energy will, prior to commencing new construction or major
reconstruction work on Gas Facilities in the Streets, apply for any permit from
Kearns as may be required by City ordinances, which permit will not be
unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or delayed.
7.6.1 Permit Exception: Emergency Repairs. Notwithstanding the
foregoing permit requirement, Dominion Energy will not be obligated to
obtain a permit to perform emergency repairs on its Gas Facilities. For the
purpose of this Franchise an emergency will mean a situation requiring
immediate attention and remedial action to prevent or abate injuries, loss
of life, property, or catastrophic interference with normal activities and
operations.
7.7 Minimum Interference. All Gas Facilities will be located, constructed, and
installed in such manner as to render the least amount of possible interference with
vehicular traffic and public use of the Streets and to cause minimal interference
with the rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin any of
the Streets.
7.8 Damage or Alteration to the Streets or Public Property. If Dominion
Energy damages or alters the Streets or public property in any manner while
performing any work on its Gas Facilities, Dominion Energy will (at its own cost
and expense and in a manner reasonably approved by the City) replace and
restore it in as good a condition as existed before the work commenced.
7.8.1 Pre-Approval Requirement. Any repairs or restoration made to
the Streets and public property must be pre-approved in writing by the
City. Upon approval from Kearns, all such repairs must be undertaken
and completed in such manner as to minimize any undue inconvenience to
the City’s inhabitants or the public at large.
7.9 Newly Constructed Gas Distribution Lines. In addition to the installation
of underground gas distribution lines as provided by applicable state law and
regulations, Dominion Energy will, upon payment of all charges provided in its
tariffs or their equivalent, place newly constructed gas distribution lines
underground as may be required by City ordinance.
7.10 Right to Excavate. Dominion Energy will have the right to excavate the
Streets subject to reasonable conditions and requirements of the City. Before
installing new underground pipelines and appurtenances, or replacing existing
pipelines and appurtenances, Dominion Energy will first notify Kearns of such

work by written notice and will permit the City, at its own expense (comprised
of a pro rata share of the trenching costs), to share the trench of Dominion Energy
to lay its own pipeline therein, provided that such action by the City will not
unreasonably interfere with Dominion Energy’s Gas Facilities or delay project
completion.
7.10.1 Monument Preservation Permit Requirement. Pursuant to Utah
Code Ann. § 17-23-14 and Chapter 14.17 of the Kearns City Code of
Ordinances, if Dominion Energy finds it necessary to disturb a survey
monument for any non-emergency reason, Dominion Energy will notify
the County Surveyor and obtain a Monument Preservation Permit at least
five business days prior to the disturbing, damaging, moving, removing,
covering, resurfacing, roto-milling, or destroying of any existing public
survey monument(s).
7.10.2 Emergency Exception. Should any monument be disturbed
absent such a permit due to an emergency circumstance that poses a threat
to public health or safety, such as outage restoration or similar unplanned
activities, a Monument Preservation Permit must be obtained after the fact.
7.10.3 Construction of New or Replacement Survey Monuments.
New survey monuments, or replacement survey monuments, will be
constructed in accordance with the Monument Preservation Permit issued
by the Salt Lake County Surveyor’s office. Non-compliance with this
requirement is subject to penalties under Utah Code Ann. § 17-23-15 and
76-8-415.
7.10.4 Pipelines, Manholes, and Appurtenances. Pipelines, manholes,
and appurtenances will be designed, located, or adjusted during
construction to prevent interference or conflict with the permanent
location of existing Survey Monuments.
7.11 Written Notice Requirement. Before commencing any street
improvements or other work within the Streets that may affect Dominion Energy’s
Gas Facilities, Kearns will give written notice to Dominion Energy.
SECTION 8. Relocation of Gas Facilities.
8.1 Right to Require Relocation of Gas Facilities. Upon written notice, Kearns
may require Dominion Energy to remove, relocate, and reinstall (collectively
“Relocation”) its Gas Facilities located in, on, along, over, across, through, or
under any of the Streets. After receipt of such written notice, Dominion energy will
diligently being such Relocation of its Facilities as may be reasonably necessary to
meet Kearns’ requirements.

8.2 Payment of Relocation Costs. The Relocation of Gas Facilities by Dominion
Energy will be at no cost to Kearns if: (i) the Gas Facilities have been installed
pursuant to this or any other Dominion Energy franchise and not pursuant to a
property or other similar right, including, but not limited to, a right-of-way, grant,
permit, or license from a state, federal, municipal, or private entity; and (ii) the City
provides a new location for the Gas Facilities pursuant to paragraph 8.3 below.
8.2.1 Payment of Relocation Costs Exceptions.
8.2.1(a): Dominion Energy will not be responsible for any
costs associated with an authorized Kearns project that is
not attributable to Dominion Energy’s Gas Facilities in the
Streets. All such costs will be allocated among all utilities
or other persons whose facilities or property are subject to
Relocation due to an authorized City project.
8.2.1(b): Dominion Energy will not be obligated to pay the
cost of any Relocation that is required or made a condition
of a private development. If the Relocation of Gas
Facilities is caused directly or otherwise by an identifiable
development of property in the area, or is made for the
convenience of a customer, Dominion Energy may charge
the expense of Relocation to the developer or customer.
For example, Dominion Energy will not be required to pay
Relocation costs in connection with a road widening or
realignment where the road project is made a condition of
or caused by a private development.
8.3 Commencement of Relocation Work. Within a reasonable time after
receiving written notice from Kearns, Dominion Energy will promptly commence
the requested Relocation of its Gas Facilities. Before relocating the Gas Facilities,
Kearns will, with the assistance and consent of Dominion Energy, identify a
reasonable alignment for the relocated Gas Facilities within the Streets.
8.4 No Additional Payment. Following the Relocation of any Gas Facilities,
Dominion Energy may maintain and operate such Gas Facilities in the new
location within City limits without additional payment.
8.5 Reimbursement of Relocation Costs. If a City Relocation project is funded
by federal or state monies that include an amount allocated to defray the cost of
relocating Gas Facilities, then Kearns will compensate Dominion Energy up to
the extent of such amount for any Relocation costs mandated by the project to the
extent that the City actually receives or is otherwise authorized to direct or
approve payment of such federal or state funds; however, Kearns will ensure that
receipt of compensation from federal or state sources will not restrict or otherwise
obligate Dominion Energy’s ownership of the Gas Facilities in any way.

SECTION 9. Subdivision Plat Notification. Before Kearns approves any new
subdivision and before recordation of a plat that impacts or could impact the Gas Facilities, the
City will obtain Dominion Energy’s approval of Gas Facilities, including underground facilities to
be installed by the developer, and associated rights-of-way depicted on the plat. A copy of the plat
will be mailed for approval to Dominion Energy:

Dominion Energy

Attn: Planning

333 South State Street

Salt Lake City, Utah 84111

SECTION 10. Annexation.

10.1 Extension of City Limits. Upon the annexation of any territory to the City,
the rights granted under this Franchise will extend to the annexed territory to the
extent the City has such authority. All Gas Facilities owned, maintained, or
operated by Dominion Energy pursuant to a franchise agreement and located
within any public rights-of-way of the annexed territory will thereafter be subject
to all the terms and conditions of this Franchise.
10.2 Notice of Annexation. When any territory is approved for annexation to
the City, Kearns will, not later than ten (10) working days after passage of an
ordinance approving the proposed annexation, provide by certified mail to
Dominion Energy: (a) each site address to be annexed as recorded on county
assessment and tax rolls; (b) a legal description of the proposed boundary change;
and (c) a copy of the City’s ordinance approving the proposed annexation. The
notice will be mailed to:

Dominion Energy

Attn: Annexations

333 South State Street

Salt Lake City, Utah 84111

With copies to:

Dominion Energy

Attn: Office of the General Counsel

333 South State Street

Salt Lake City, Utah 84111

City of Kearns by and through its agent

the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District

Attn: Planning and Development Services

2001 South State Street #N3-600

Salt Lake City, Utah 84190

SECTION 11. Assignment. Dominion Energy may assign or transfer its rights
and obligations under the Franchise, without the City’s consent, to any parent, affiliate, or
subsidiary of Dominion Energy, to any entity having fifty percent (50%) or more direct or indirect
common ownership with Dominion Energy, or to any successor-in-interest or transferee of
Dominion Energy having all necessary approvals, including those from the Utah Public Service
Commission or its successor, to provide utility service within Kearns’s municipal limits.
Additionally, Dominion Energy may assign, mortgage. pledge, hypothecate, or otherwise transfer
its interest in this Franchise, without the City’s consent, to any financing entity, or agent on behalf
of any financing entity to whom Dominion Energy: (1) has obligations for borrowed money or in
respect of guaranties thereof; (ii) has obligations evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes, or similar
instruments; or (iii) has obligations under or with respect to letters of credit, bankers acceptances
and similar facilities or in respect of guaranties thereof. Under all other circumstances, excluding
the operation of law, Dominion Energy will not transfer, assign, or delegate any of its rights or
obligations under the Franchise to another entity without the City’s prior written approval, which
approval will not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or delayed. Inclusion of the Franchise
as an asset of Dominion Energy subject to the liens and mortgages of Dominion Energy will not
constitute a transfer or assignment requiring the City’s prior written consent.

SECTION 12. Information Exchange. Upon request by either Kearns or Dominion
Energy, as reasonably necessary, Dominion Energy and the City will meet for the purpose of
exchanging information and documents regarding construction and other similar work within City
limits, with a view towards coordinating their respective activities in those areas where such
coordination may prove mutually beneficial. Any information received by Kearns from Dominion
Energy that contains or relates to Dominion Energy’s confidential or proprietary information,
including but not limited to information regarding future capital improvements that may involve
land acquisition, will be treated with confidentiality upon request to the extent that the City may
lawfully do so.

SECTION 13. Terms of Service. Dominion Energy will furnish natural gas service
without preference or discrimination among customers of the same service class at reasonable rates
in accordance with all applicable tariffs approved by and on file with regulatory bodies having
jurisdiction over Dominion Energy, including revisions to such tariffs made during the term of the
Franchise, and in conformity with all applicable constitutional and statutory requirements.
Dominion Energy may make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations in the conduct of its
business, may require its customers to execute a gas service agreement as a condition to receiving
service, and will have the right to contract with its customers regarding the installation and
operation of its Gas Facilities. To secure safe and reliable service to the customers, and in the
public interest, Dominion Energy will have the right to prescribe the sizes and kinds of pipes and
related Gas Facilities to be used and will have the right to refuse service to any customer who
refuses to comply with Dominion Energy’s rules and regulations.

SECTION 14. Taxes and Fees. Dominion acknowledges that the City has levied a
Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax (“MET”) on the sale or use of the delivered value of taxable
energy within the City, pursuant to the Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax Act (Utah Code § 10-
1-301 et seg.) (the “Act”). To the extent consistent with the Act and City Ordinances, Dominion

Energy shall collect the MET in the amount levied, as it may be adjusted during the term of this
Franchise and pay said tax directly to the City.

Nothing in this Franchise shall affect the City’s right, under the Act, or any other applicable
law then in effect, at any time hereafter to prospectively impose upon, charge, collect a municipal
energy sales and use tax on the sale or use of taxable energy supplied by or through Dominion
Energy within the City, or to impose, charge, or collect any lawful fee, tax, license fee, license tax,
franchise fee, or similar charge, or any combination or any of the foregoing provided the City is
or becomes legally authorized to do so. If the Act is repealed, invalidated, or the maximum
allowable rate of the MET is reduced, and if said act is not superseded by a law imposing a
substantially equivalent tax, then Dominion Energy shall pay to the City a franchise fee in an
amount equal to the MET rate imposed at the time of the repeal, invalidation, or reduction in the
maximum allowable MET rate, effective on or after the day of the repeal, invalidation, or
reduction.

SECTION 15. Indemnification. Kearns will in no way be liable or responsible for any
loss or damage to property or any injury to, or death, of any person that may occur in the
construction, operation, or maintenance by Dominion Energy of its Gas Facilities. Dominion
Energy will indemnify, defend, and hold Kearns, its agents, officers and employees, harmless from
and against any and all claims, demands, liens, liabilities, damages, actions, and proceedings
arising from the exercise by Dominion Energy of its rights under this Franchise, including its
operations within City limits, and Dominion Energy will pay the reasonable cost of defense plus
the City’s reasonable attorney fees. Kearns will: (a) give prompt written notice to Dominion
Energy of any claim, demand, or lien with respect to which the City seeks indemnification under
this Franchise; and (b) permit Dominion Energy to assume the defense of such claim, demand, or
lien. If such defense is not assumed by Dominion Energy, Dominion Energy will not be subject
to liability for any settlement made without its consent. Notwithstanding any provision to the
contrary, Dominion Energy will not be obligated to indemnify, defend, or hold Kearns harmless
to the extent that any underlying claim, demand, lien, liability, damage, action, and proceeding
arises out of, or in connection with, any negligent or willful act or omission of the City or any of
its agents, officers, or employees.

SECTION 16. Insurance. Dominion Energy will responsibly self-insure or maintain
insurance to cover its obligations and liabilities as set forth in Section 15 of this Franchise, in lieu
of any insurance as may be required in any City ordinances.

SECTION 17. Waiver of Surety Bond Requirement. If any City ordinance requires
Dominion Energy to post a surety bond, that section of the ordinance is expressly waived.

SECTION 18. Notices. Unless otherwise specified herein, all notices from Dominion
Energy to Kearns pursuant to or concerning this Franchise will be delivered to the following
addresses, which the Parties may update from time to time in writing:

City of Kearns by and through its agent

the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District

Attn: Planning and Development Services

2001 South State Street #N3-600

Salt Lake City, Utah 84190

Unless otherwise specified herein, all notices from Kearns to Dominion Energy pursuant
to or concerning this Franchise will be delivered to:

Dominion Energy

Attn: Regional Business Management Director

333 South State Street

Salt Lake City, Utah 84111

If Kearns or Dominion Energy desires to use a different mailing address under this
Section 15 of the Franchise, the party requesting such change must provide written notice to the
other party.

SECTION 19. Amendment. At any time during the term of this Franchise, Kearns or
Dominion Energy may propose amendments to this Franchise by giving thirty (30) days written
notice to the other party of the proposed amendment(s) desired, and both parties thereafter, through
their designated representatives, will, within a reasonable time, negotiate in good faith in an effort
to agree upon mutually satisfactory amendment(s). No amendment or amendments to this
Franchise will be effective until mutually agreed upon by Kearns and Dominion Energy and
formally adopted as an ordinance amendment, which will be accepted in writing by Dominion
Energy.

SECTION 20. Automatic Termination. Upon expiration of the second renewal period
under Section 3 above, the Franchise will automatically terminate.

SECTION 21. No Waiver. Neither Kearns nor Dominion Energy will be excused from
complying with any of the terms and conditions of this Franchise by any failure of the other, or
any of its officers, employees, or agents.

SECTION 22. Severability and Effect of Invalidity. If any section, sentence, paragraph,
term, or provision of this Franchise is for any reason determined to be illegal, invalid, or
superseded by other lawful authority including any state or federal regulatory authority having
jurisdiction thereof, or unconstitutional, illegal, or invalid by any court of common jurisdiction,
such portion will be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent provision and such determination
will have no effect on the validity of any other section, sentence, paragraph, term, or provision of
this Franchise, all of which will remain in full force and effect for the term of the Franchise or any
renewal or renewals thereof.

SECTION 23. Effective Date. This Ordinance and Franchise will become effective upon
the date of acceptance by Dominion Energy as established above in Section 5.

[execution on following page|

APPROVAL AND ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE NO. 2025-0-05
APPROVED and ADOPTED this 10“ day of February 2025.
KEARNS CITY COUNCIL
, v
Kelly Bush, Mayor
ATTEST
Diana Baun, Recorder
VOTING
Council Member Bush voting US
Council Member Butterfield voting
Council Member Peterson _ voting Ues
Council Member Schaeffer voting Ues
Council Member Snow voting Ue sl
(Complete as Applicable)
Summary of ordinance published: Feoruaw A, 2025
Date of publication:_é\oa \ Av /O2>
Effective date of ordinance: bnravw\ 10, 202)

SUMMARY OF
CITY OF KEARNS ORDINANCE NO. 2025-0-05

City of Kearns Ordinance No. 2025-O-05 grants a nonexclusive franchise (“Franchise”)
to Questar Gas Company d/b/a Dominion Energy Utah to operate and maintain a gas distribution
system in City of Kearns; setting forth terms and conditions accompanying the grant of the
Franchise; providing for City of Kearns regulation and administration of the gas distribution
system; and prescribing penalties for violation of the Franchise’s provisions.

A copy of Ordinance No. 2025-O-05 is available in the office of the City of Kearns, located
at:

City of Kearns by and through its agent

the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District

Attn: Municipal Clerk and Recorder

2001 South State Street #N3-600

Salt Lake City, Utah 84190
KEARNS CITY COUNCIL
By

elly Bu ayor

ATTEST (SEAL)
Diana Baun, Recorder
VOTING
Council Member Bush voting UeS
Council Member Butterfield voting U€S
Council Member Peterson __ voting (eS
Council Member Schaeffer voting U€S
Council Member Snow voting S

ACCEPTANCE OF FRANCHISE
This is to certify that Questar Gas Company d/b/a Dominion Energy Utah (“Franchisee”)
accepts the nonexclusive franchise (“Franchise”) to construct, maintain, and operate a gas
distribution system in, under, above, and across the present and future public rights-of-way in
the City of Kearns, State of Utah, as evidenced by Ordinance No. 2025-O-05 and adopted by the
City of Kearns Council on February 10, 2025. Franchisee accepts the Franchise as approved and
agrees that it will be bound by and observe and carry out the terms and conditions of the Franchise.
Franchisee designates the following representative to receive and respond to issues in
connection with the Franchise, and such other office as Franchisee may designate by written
notice to the City of Kearns:
Dominion Energy Utah
Attn: Franchise Manager
333 South State Street
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111
With copy (except for invoices) to:
Dominion Energy Utah Legal Department
Attn: Network Legal Team
333 South State Street
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111
Dated this day of ¢ 2025;
QUESTAR GAS COMPANY d/b/a
DOMINION ENERGY UTAH
By its
