KEARNS CITY COUNCIL
RESOLUTION NO. R2025-08 DATE: August 11, 2025
A RESOLUTION AMENDING THE PURCHASING POLICY FOR THE CITY OF
KEARNS

WHEREAS, the City of Kearns (“Kearns”) is a municipality and political subdivision of
the State of Utah; and

WHEREAS, Utah Code § 10-6-122 requires each municipality to adopt purchasing
policies to guide the City in the purchase of goods and services; and

WHEREAS, on March 10, 2025, the Kearns Council (“Council”) adopted Resolution No.
R2025-04 amend and update the City’s purchasing policy; and

WHEREAS, during the Council’s subsequent regular meeting on April 24, 2025, the
Council directed the City staff to prepare an amendment to Resolution R2025-04 that would
authorize the use of telephone bids for construction procurements with an estimated value of
$50,001 to $250,000; and

WHEREAS, the City staff have prepared the attached amended policy pursuant to the
direction the Council provided on April 14, 2025, and the Council desires to adopt the amended
policy.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE KEARNS CITY COUNCIL:

1. Adoption of Purchasing Policy. Resolution R2025-04 is repealed in its entirety
and replaced with the purchasing policy (“Policy”) attached to this Resolution.

2. Direction to Mayor and Staff. the Mayor and staff are authorized and directed to
take such steps as may be needed: (a) for this Resolution to become effective under Utah law; and
(b) to finalize and post the Resolution to Municode, including but not limited to making non-
substantive edits to correct any scrivener’s, formatting, and numbering errors.

3. Purchasing Agent. The Council authorizes the Mayor as the purchasing agent for
the purposes of the Policy until such time as Kearns hires a city manager, at which point the city
manager shall serve as the purchasing agent.

4, Effective Date. This Resolution shall take effect immediately.

[Execution on following page]

APPROVED and ADOPTED this 11" day of August 2025.
KEARNS CITY COUNCIL
\
<u

Keety-Btish- Mayor

Cina Snow Peputy Maugor
ATTEST:
By: Drama Brun
Diana Baun, City Recorder
KEARNS CITY COUNCIL VOTE:
Council Member Bush voting absent
Council Member Butterfield voting
Council Member Peterson voting ous
Council Member Snow voting
Council Member Schaeffer voting

2

PURCHASING POLICY OF THE CITY OF KEARNS
Adopted May 14, 2018
Amended March 10, 2025
Amended August 11, 2025
I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
A. Purposes. The underlying purposes of this purchasing policy (“Policy”) are to:

1. Ensure the fair and equitable treatment of all persons who wish to or do conduct
business within the City of Kearns (“City”).

2. Provide for the greatest possible economy in City procurement activities.

3. Foster effective broad-based competition within the free enterprise system to
ensure that the City shall receive the best possible service or product at the
lowest possible price.

B. Compliance.

1. This Policy shall not prevent the City from complying with the terms and
conditions of any grant, gift, or bequest that is otherwise consistent with law.

2. When procurement involves the expenditure of federal assistance funds, the
City shall comply with applicable federal law and regulations.

C. Definitions.

1. “Business” means any corporation, partnership, individual, sole proprietorship,
joint stock company, joint venture, or any other private legal entity.

2. “Change order” means a written order signed by the purchasing agent, directing
the contractor to suspend work or make changes, which the appropriate clauses
of the contract authorize the purchasing agent to order without the consent of
the contractor or any written alteration in specifications, delivery point, rate of
delivery, period of performance, price, quantity, or other provisions of any
contract accomplished by mutual action of the parties to the contract.

3. “Construction Purchase” means the acquisition of goods, services, and
resources for a construction project.

4. “Contract” means any City agreement for the procurement or disposal of
supplies, services, or construction.

5. “Invitation for bids” means all documents, whether attached or incorporated by
reference, used for soliciting bids.

6. “Person” means any business, individual, union, committee, club, other
organization, or group of individuals.

7. “Procurement” means buying, purchasing, renting, leasing, leasing with and
option to purchase, or otherwise acquiring any supplies, construction, or other
services.

8. “Procurement Item” means any supplies, construction, or other services that the
City may acquire pursuant to this Policy.

9. “Purchasing agent” means the person duly authorized by the Kearns City
Council to enter into and administer contracts and make written determinations
with respect thereto.

10. “Purchase description” means the words used in a solicitation to describe the
supplies, services or construction to be purchased, and includes specifications
attached to or made a part of the solicitation.

11. “Request for proposals” means all documents, whether attached or incorporated
by reference, used for soliciting proposals.

12. “Sole Source Procurement” means a procurement without competition pursuant
to a determination by the purchasing agent under Section III.A.4 that there is
only one source for the procurement item.

II. PURCHASING AGENT
The Kearns City Council shall appoint a purchasing agent, who shall be responsible to make
procurements, solicit bids and proposals, enter into and administer contracts, and make
written purchasing determinations for the City in accordance with this Policy and in
accordance with applicable law.
Ill. SOURCE SELECTION AND CONTRACT FORMATION - GENERAL
PROVISIONS
A. Purchase not requiring sealed bids.

1. Small Purchases: Small purchases costing $50,000 or less in total, shall not
require bids of any type. (Purchases shall not be artificially divided to constitute
a small purchase under this section.)

4

2. Non-Construction Purchases Requiring Telephone Bids: Purchases for non-
construction projects costing between $50,001 and $100,000 in total, shall
require three (3) telephone bids.

3. Construction Purchases Requiring Telephone Bids: Purchases for construction
projects costing between $50,001 and $250,000 in total, shall require three (3)
telephone bids.

4. State Contracts: Purchases made through the cooperative purchasing contracts
administered by the State Division of Purchasing or other governmental entity
which has applied its purchasing and procurement policies.

5. Sole Source Procurement: Purchases made from a sole-source provider if the
purchasing agent determines in writing that a sole source procurement is needed
for one or more of the following reasons. The purchasing agent shall also ensure
that the terms of the contract, including price and delivery, are in the best
interests of the City.

i. There is only one source for the procurement item;

ii. The transitional costs are a significant consideration in selecting the
procurement item and the results of a cost-benefit analysis
demonstrate that transitional costs are unreasonable or cost-
prohibitive, and that the award of a contract without engaging in a
standard procurement process is in the best interest of the City; or

iii. |The award of a contact is under circumstances that make awarding
the contract through a standard procurement process impractical and
not in the best interest of the City.

6. Emergency Purchases. Purchases required during an emergency, i.e., an
eminent threat to the public’s health, welfare, or safety. However, as much
competition as practical should be obtained; and, such purchases should be
limited to amounts necessary to the resolution of the emergency. The
purchasing agent shall also document in writing the nature of the emergency
that required the emergency purchases and the actions taken to procure the
procurement item. The purchasing agent shall notify the Council as soon as
reasonably possible of the need for, amount of, and nature of any emergency
purchase made pursuant to this subsection.

7. Publication. If the City does not use competitive sealed bidding for a
procurement that exceeds the highest amounts in Section III.2 ($100,000) and
I1I.3 ($250,000), it shall provide notice of procurements pursuant to Utah Code
§ 63G-6a-802, excepting small purchases.

5

B. Purchases Requiring Sealed Bids.

1. General. The City shall award all contracts for a procurement item with an
estimated value in excess of the highest amounts in Section III.2 ($100,000)
and Section III.3 ($250,000) by competitive sealed bidding except as otherwise
provided by this Policy.

2. Invitation for Bids. An invitation for bids shall be issued when a contract is to
be awarded by competitive sealed bidding. The invitation shall include:

i. A description of the procurement item that the City seeks;
ii. Instructions for submitting a bid, including the deadline for
submitting a bid;
iii. | The objective criteria that the City will use to evaluate bids;
iv. Information about the time and manner of opening bids; and
v. | Terms and conditions that the City intends to include in a contract
resulting from the bidding process.

3. Publication. The Procurement Agent shall publish an invitation for bids in
accordance with the requirements of Utah Code § 63G-6a-112, meaning that
the Procurement Agent shall publish the bid at least seven (7) days prior to the
date set forth therein for the opening of bids on the City’s website or on a
website owned, managed by, or provided by the State of Utah for the posting of
public procurement notices. Procurement agent may, but is not required to,
public the invitation for bids in a newspaper of general circulation within
Kearns. The Procurement Agent may reduce the seven (7) day period described
in this subsection in accordance with Utah Code § 63G-6a-112.

4. Opening of Bids. Bids shall be opened publicly in the presence of one or more
witnesses at the time and place designated in the invitations for bids. The
amount of each bid and any other relevant information, together with the name
of each bidder, shall be recorded. The record and each bid shall be open to
public inspection.

5. Acceptance of Bids. Bids shall be unconditionally accepted without alternation
or correction, except as authorized in this policy. Bids shall be evaluated based
on the requirements set forth in the invitation for bids.

6

6. Corrections and Withdrawals of Bids. Correction or withdrawal of inadvertently
erroneous bids before or after award, or cancellation of awards or contracts
based on such bid mistakes, shall be permitted. After bid opening no changes in
bid prices or other provisions of bids prejudicial to the interest of the City of
fair competition shall be permitted. All decisions to permit the correction or
withdrawal of bids or to cancel awards or contracts based on bid mistakes shall
be supported by a written determination made by the purchasing agent.

7. Contract Negotiation and Awards. The contract shall be awarded with
reasonable promptness, by written notice, to the lowest bidder whose bid meets
the requirements and criteria set forth in the invitation for bids, subject to the
purchasing agent concluding any negotiations that may be needed to finalize
the contract.

8. Construction Contracts. The City shall follow the procedures contained in Utah
Code § 11-39-101 et seq. for the letting of contracts for the construction of
building improvements or public works projects as defined therein and any
provision of this policy that conflicts with the provisions of Utah Code § 11-39-
101 et seq. shall not apply to the letting of contracts covered by this chapter of
state law.

C. Prior Council Authorization. The purchasing agent shall secure the Council’s
prior authorization before purchasing a procurement item that is not a small
purchase under Section III.A.1 or an emergency purchase under Section III.A.5.

D. Cancellation and Rejection of Bids. An invitation for bids, a request for proposals,
or other solicitations may be canceled, or any or all bids or proposals may be
rejected, in whole or in part, as may be specified in the solicitation, when it is in the
best interests of the City. The reasons shall be made part of the contract file.

E. Use of Competitive Sealed Proposals in lieu of Bids (Requests for Proposals).
1. Competitive Sealed Proposals. When the purchasing agent determines in

writing that the use of competitive sealed bidding is either not practicable or not
advantageous to the City, a contract may be entered into by competitive sealed
proposals. Competitive sealed proposals are most appropriately used for
professional service-type contracts.

2. Solicitation of Competitive Sealed Proposals.

i. The request for proposals shall state the relative importance of price
and other evaluating factors;
ii. Proposals shall be solicited through a request for proposals; and
7

iii. | Public notice of the request for proposals shall be given at least ten
(10) days prior to the advertised date of the opening of the proposals.

3. Opening of Competitive Sealed Proposals. Proposals shall be opened to avoid
disclosure of contents to competing offerors during the process of negotiation.
A register of proposals shall be prepared and shall be open for public inspection
after contract award.

4. Fair and Equal Treatment. Offerors shall be accorded fair and equal treatment
with respect to any opportunity for discussion and revision of proposals, and
revisions may be permitted after submissions and prior to award for the purpose
of obtaining best and final offers. In conduction discussions, there shall be no
disclosure of any information derived from proposals submitted by competing
offerors.

5. Awards for Competitive Sealed Proposals. Awards shall be made to the person
whose proposal is determined, in writing, to be the most advantageous to the
City, taking into consideration price and the evaluation factors set forth in the
request for proposals. No other factors or criteria shall be used in the evaluation.
The contract file shall contain the basis on which the award is made.

F. Architect-Engineer Services. Architect-engineer services are qualification-based
procurements. Requests for such services should be publicly announced. Contracts
should be negotiated by the Procurement Agent based on demonstrated competence
at fair and reasonable prices.

G. Determination of Non-responsibility of Bidder. Determination of non-
responsibility of a bidder or offeror shall be made in writing. The unreasonable
failure of a bidder or offeror to promptly supply information in connection with an
inquiry with respect to responsibility may be grounds for a determination of non-
responsibility with respect to the bidder or offeror. Information furnished by a
bidder or offeror pursuant to this section shall not be disclosed outside of the
purchasing division without prior written consent by the bidder or offeror.

H. Cost-Plus-A-Percentage-Of-Cost Contracts Prohibited. Subject to the
limitations of this section, any type of contract which shall promote the best
interests of the City may be used, provided that the use of a cost-plus-a-percentage-
of-cost contract is prohibited. A cost-reimbursement contract may be used only
when a determination is made in writing that such contract is likely to be less costly
to the City than any other type or that it is impracticable to obtain the supplies,
services, or construction, required except under such a contract.

IV. APPEALS

A. Filing of Appeals. Any actual or prospective bidder, offeror, or contractor who

is aggrieved in connection with the solicitation or award of a contract may
8

appeal to the purchasing agent. An appeal shall be submitted in writing within
five (5) business days after the aggrieved person knows or should have known
of the facts.

B. Written Decision Required. The purchasing agent shall promptly issue a
written decision regarding any appeal, if itis not settled by a mutual agreement.
The decision shall state the reasons for the action taken and inform the protestor,
contractor, or prospective contractor of the right to appeal to the City Council.

C. Final Action. A written decision issued by the purchasing agent shall constitute the
City’s final administrative action on an appeal.

V. ETHICS IN PUBLIC CONTRACTING

A. Conflicts of Interest Prohibited. No person involved in making procurement
decisions may have personal investments in any business entity which shall create
a substantial conflict between their private interests and their public duties. The
procurement agent and all applicable City officials, staff, and contractors shall
comply with the City’s ethics and nepotism ordinances, policies, and other appliable
requirements when making procurement decisions or otherwise implementing this
Policy.

B. Penalties. In accordance with appliable state law, any person involved in making
procurement decisions is guilty of a felony if the person asks, receives, or offers to
receive any emolument, gratuity, contribution, loan, or reward, or any promise
thereof, either for the person s own use or the use or benefit of any other person or
organization from any person or organization interested in selling to the City.

VI. Miscellaneous.

A. Successor Statutes. Any statute referred to in this Policy shall be deemed to include
that statute as amended, restated, and/or replaced from time to time, and any
successor legislation to the same general intent and effect.

B. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this
ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this Policy.

9
