                         KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
                                  RESOLUTION #2023-03-01
                                         March 13, 2023
          A RESOLUTION OF THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
                    ADOPTING A SOCIAL MEDIA POLICY
                                           RECITALS
        WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-717(1) authorizes the Kearns Metro Township
Council (the “Council”) to exercise all administrative powers by resolution, including the adoption
of policies to govern the actions of municipal personnel and the use and operation of municipal
property; and
      WHEREAS, the Political Activities of Public Entities Act (the “Act”), Utah Code Ann. §
20A-11-1201, et seq., prohibits the use of public funds on certain electoral and other matters; and
         WHEREAS, the Council desires to adopt a social media policy to establish terms of use
for its social media platforms, ensure compliance with the Act, and otherwise ensure that Kearns’
social media accounts are used appropriately for governmental purposes; and
        WHEREAS, the Council has determined that the social media policy attached to this
resolution will serve the best interests of the Kearns Metro Township and the public.
      NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED by the Kearns Metro Township
Council that:

   1. The Kearns Metro Township webpage (www.kmtutah.org) and the Kearns Metro
      Township Facebook page (https://www.facebook.com/KearnsMetroTownship) are
      approved as official Kearns social media accounts.

   2. Jake Carpenter is designated as the moderator and administrator for each of the official
      social media platforms of the Kearns Metro Township, subject to the negotiation and
      execution of a mutually acceptable contract with Mr. Carpenter, after which this resolution
      will go into effect:

   3. The administrative law judge of the Municipal Services District is designated as the appeal
      authority for the purposes of the social media policy; and

   4. The social media policy will be posted to Kearns’s website and social media accounts and
      Kearns’s officials, personnel, and agents are instructed and authorized to take all steps
      needed to implement the policy.

         [execution on following page – remainder of this page left blank intentionally]
      APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Salt Lake County, Utah, this 13th day of March, 2023.


                                               By: _______________________
                                                   Kelly Bush, Mayor


ATTEST




By: _________________________________
   Lannie Chapman, Salt Lake County
   Clerk Kearns Metro Township/Recorder


VOTING


Council Member Bush voting            Yea
Council Member Butterfield voting     Absent
Council Member Peterson voting        Yea
Council Member Schaeffer voting       Yea
Council Member Snow voting            Yea




                                          2
                              KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP
                                SOCIAL MEDIA POLICY
                                 Adopted March 13, 2023

SECTION I – DEFINITIONS

  The following definitions will apply for the purposes of this policy:

  1. “Appeal authority” means the person designated by the Council to hear appeals under this
     policy, provided that the appeal authority may not be a moderator.

  2. “Comments or Posts” means any comment, photo, link, or other material posted to a section
     of a social media account.

  3. “Kearns” means the Kearns Metro Township.

  4. “Council” means the Kearns Metro Township Council.

  5. “Egregious violation” means a comment made to a Kearns social media account that
     expressly or impliedly threatens the safety of the public or an individual.

  6. “GRAMA” means the Government Records and Management Access Act, Title 63G,
     Chapter 2 of the Utah Code, or applicable successor statute.

  7. “Mayor” means the Mayor of the Kearns Metro Township.

  8. “Moderator” means the person the Council has authorized to administer and moderate a
     social media account.

  9. “Personnel” means:

         a. Any member of the Council;
         b. Any member of a Kearns board, commission, or committee;
         c. Any employee, contractor, or other agent duly authorized to carry out official
            Kearns business; and
         d. Any volunteer engaged in official Kearns business.

  10. “Policy” means this social media policy.

  11. “Social Media Account” means any platform that enables users to create and share content
      or to participate in social media, networking, or discussion, including but not limited to
      social media and social networking services, web feeds, blogs, wikis, photo sharing,
      podcasting, social bookmarking, mashups, widgets, virtual worlds, and micro-blogs.

  12. “Terms” means the terms of use set forth in Section V of this policy.
   13. “User” means any person or entity who uses a Kearns social media account.

SECTION II – PURPOSE

       Kearns has the discretion to use social media accounts to provide pertinent public
information to Kearns residents and other interested members of the general public.

SECTION III – SCOPE

   1. Applicability: This Policy applies to all circumstances where a social media account is
      owned, controlled, or otherwise managed by Kearns, through its personnel, or any of its
      departments, divisions, committees, commissions, or boards, including but not limited to
      any social media account used by an elected official to conduct Kearns business, even if
      conducting Kearns business is not the sole purpose of the account.

   2. Exclusions: Except as provided in Article XII, this Policy does not apply to purely personal
      social media accounts owned or controlled by:

           a. Kearns personnel in their personal and private capacity, including but not limited
              to any campaign election or re-election account owned and controlled by a
              campaign election or re-election committee or person campaigning for public
              office;

           b. The Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District unless the social media account
              is specific to Kearns only and conducted by the Greater Salt Lake Municipal
              Services District in fulfillment of one or more of its contractor responsibilities for
              Kearns; and

           c. The Kearns Community Council and the Kearns Improvement District, which are
              separate entities that are legally distinct from Kearns.

SECTION IV – COUNCIL APPROVAL REQUIRED
         The Council must approve all official Kearns social media accounts before the accounts
are created and operated. In approving a social media account, the Council will direct how the
social media account is to be published and administered. The Council may also determine, at any
time, whether public comments are allowed on a Kearns social media account, even after a social
media account has been created and placed into operation. If the Council allows public comments,
it will designate a moderator for the social media account. The Council may also close a Kearns
social media account at any time without notice.
SECTION V – TERMS OF USE
      The following terms and conditions will apply to all social media accounts where the
Council has authorized public comments.



                                                 2
1. General: Kearns’s social media accounts are intended to promote healthy and non-abusive
   public discourse and will exhibit a level of decorum that is conducive to orderly
   government.

2. No Discrimination: Kearns will not discriminate based on viewpoint, nor because a
   comment is posted anonymously or expresses disagreement with Kearns action, policy,
   custom, or practice. Such content will not be flagged, minimized, or removed, and no user
   will be blocked, so long as the content complies with the terms of use set forth in this
   policy.

3. Acceptance of Terms: Users who access or use a Kearns social media account accept and
   agree to follow, without limitation:

       a.   The Terms;

       b. Any terms of use required by the social media platform provider, over whose terms
          of use, content, commercial advertisements or other postings Kearns has no control;
          and

       c. Kearns’s right to modify the Terms and this policy without notice, which changes
          will become effective upon their posting to the applicable social media account.

4. Comments and Posts: Comments and posts must relate to discussion of Kearns programs,
   services, projects, issues, events, or activities. Neither Kearns nor its personnel will edit
   comments or posts to official Kearns social medial accounts. However, Kearns will hide
   or remove comments or posts that do not relate to Kearns business or that:

       a. Promote, foster, or perpetuate discrimination based on race, creed, color, age,
          religion, gender, marital status, national origin, physical or mental disability, sexual
          orientation, gender identity, or that otherwise encourages discrimination in
          violation of applicable laws, regulations, ordinances, or policies;

       b. Include slanderous or defamatory attacks against any person, including but not
          limited to Kearns personnel;

       c. Threatening, harassing, obscene, indecent, or profane language or content;

       d. Include obscene or sexual content, or links to obscene or sexual content, including
          indecent or pornographic material;

       e. Solicit commerce or advertisements including promotions or endorsements;

       f. Promote or condone illegal conduct or activity;

       g. Are spam that include links to external online sites;



                                             3
      h. Violate a legal ownership interest of any person, including improper use of a
         trademark or copyrighted material;

      i. Promote, endorse, or oppose the candidacy of any person, petition, or referendum
         or otherwise violate applicable laws and regulations, including but not limited to
         the Political Activities of Public Entities Act, Utah Code Ann. § 20A-11-1201, et
         seq.;

      j. Include fraudulent, deceptive, or misleading information;

      k. May compromise the safety or security of the public or public systems;

      l. Disclose private, protected, or confidential material as defined by state or federal
         laws and regulations or Kearns ordinance or policy; or

      m. Include advertisements for any purpose.

5. Use of Photographs:

      a. Kearns will not post photographs on its social media sites for which is does not
         have the copyright or the owner’s permission to use.

      b. For photographs involving one minor, permission must be obtained from the
         minor’s parent or guardian before the photograph may be posted to a Kearns social
         media site, provided that permission is not needed for photographs of multiple
         children taken at a public event.

6. Violations of Terms: Moderators will adhere to the following when hiding or removing
   comments or posts that violate the terms:

      a. When a user has violated the terms, the moderator will contact the social media
         user through direct messaging or other available means, describe the violation, and
         request voluntary removal or edit of the comment(s) or post(s).

      b. If the user fails to voluntarily remove or edit the comment(s) or post(s), the
         moderator may minimize or hide the comment or post.

      c. Before hiding or removing a comment or post, a copy must be retained (e.g.,
         through a screen shot, etc.) by the moderator.

      d. If a comment or post is hidden or removed, the moderator must notify the user
         through a direct message or other means that includes (i) a copy of the comment or
         post in question, (ii) an explanation as to why the comment or post violates this
         policy, and (iii) an explanation of the user may appeal the moderator’s decision
         pursuant to paragraph 9 of this Section, including the appeal authority’s email
         address.


                                           4
7. Blocking and Reinstating Users:

       a. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 7, below, if a user is determined to have
          violated the terms on three separate occasions, the moderator will block the user
          from making public comments or posts on all applicable Kearns social media
          accounts by notifying the user through direct message or other available means that:

               i. They have been blocked pursuant to this policy;

              ii. An explanation for why the user has been blocked, including a reference to
                  the user’s applicable prior violations; and

              iii. An explanation that the user may appeal Kearns’s decision to block the user
                   by sending an email within five business days to the appeal authority that
                   explains in reasonable detail the user’s reasons for why the decision to block
                   the user is improper; and

              iv. The appeal authority’s email address.

       b. Except as otherwise provided by this policy, a user who has been blocked may
          submit a written request to the moderator requesting reinstatement after a period of
          one year has expired from the date the user was blocked or, if appealed, the date
          the decision to block the user was upheld. The moderator will approve the request
          if (i) the moderator has reason to believe the user will abide by the terms, and (ii)
          the user signs a written statement (a) agreeing to abide by the terms and (b)
          acknowledging that subsequent violations of the terms could result in a permanent
          ban that prohibits the user from participating at any future time in applicable Kearns
          social media accounts. If the moderator denies the user’s request, the moderator
          will provide a written explanation for the basis of the denial pursuant to the process
          in paragraph 6(a). A user may appeal a denial to the appeal authority pursuant to
          the process in paragraph 6(a)(iii).

       c. If a user is reinstated under paragraph 6(b) and is subsequently found to have any
          further violation of the terms, even if on one occurrence, the moderator will block
          the user from all applicable social media accounts. The moderator will follow the
          notice process in paragraph 6(a) to notify the user that the user has been blocked.
          Users blocked under this paragraph 6(c) may appeal pursuant to the process set
          forth in paragraph 6(a)(iii). A user blocked under this paragraph 6(c) may request
          reinstatement pursuant to the process in paragraph 6(b) after a period of three years
          following the date the user was blocked or, if appealed, the date the action was
          upheld.

8. Egregious Violations: A moderator will immediately remove all comments or posts that
   constitute an egregious violation and may, in the moderator’s discretion, immediately block



                                             5
     the user from future comments or posts for such an egregious violation, subject to providing
     the user notice in accordance with the process set forth in paragraph 6(a).

  9. Appeals: A user may appeal a decision issued by the moderator under this Section by
     sending an email to the appeal authority that contains the complete decision the moderator
     issued under this Section and explains in reasonable detail the user’s reasons for why the
     moderator’s decision is not supported by this policy. A user filing an appeal must do so
     within five business days of the date the user receives notice of an action taken by the
     moderator under paragraphs 6(d) or 7(a) of this Section. The appeal authority’s review of
     an appeal will be limited to the user’s comments or actions in question, the moderator’s
     decision, the terms, and the user’s appeal, provided that the appeal authority may, in their
     discretion, ask the moderator to prepare a response the corresponds directly to the user’s
     appeal. The user filing an appeal bears the burden of proof and must show by a
     preponderance of the evidence that the moderator’s decision violates the terms. If the
     appeal authority does not uphold the moderator’s actions, the appeal authority will order
     that a comment or post be restored to public view or that user be reinstated. The appeal
     authority will issue a written decision and notify the user of the decision via email as soon
     as is reasonably practicable. The appeal authority’s decision will explain the appeal
     authority’s reasons for granting or denying the appeal. All decisions by the appeal authority
     will constitute a final agency action under Utah Code Ann. § 63G-4-401, or applicable
     successor statute.

  10. Posting of Policy: All sections of Kearns’s social media accounts that allow comments or
      posts will include a link to this policy and a link to the Kearns website for original content,
      forms, documents, and other information.

  11. Social Media Use by Personnel: Kearns personnel should not use personal social network
      accounts, user IDs, or email accounts when commenting in their official capacity on Kearns
      social media accounts or when otherwise conducting official Kearns business on non-
      Kearns social media accounts. Any personnel representing Kearns on any social media
      account will conduct themselves at all times as a representative of Kearns and in a manner
      that is professional, exhibits proper decorum, complies with the provisions of paragraph 4,
      and is otherwise conducive to orderly government. Conversely, Kearns personnel should
      not use their Kearns user IDs or Kearns email accounts when acting in their personal
      capacity on non-Kearns social media accounts or otherwise conducting personal business.

SECTION VI –GRAMA
  1. Public Records: Comments posted to Kearns’s social media accounts are considered public
     records subject to public disclosure under GRAMA to the extent they do not contain
     information that discloses private, protected, or confidential material or information.

  2. Retention: Kearns will ensure that social media account records are property retained and
     classified pursuant to GRAMA and any other applicable laws, regulations, or policies. Any
     comments or posts that are removed and information regarding blocked users will be
     considered public records and will be preserved pursuant to GRAMA.


                                                6
   3. Moderator Responsibilities: Moderators who remove a comment or post or block a user’s
      access must preserve records of the removal or blocked user for any applicable retention
      period in a format (e.g., a screen shot) that preserves the integrity of the original record and
      is easily accessible.

   4. Comments Not Considered GRAMA Request. A comment or post requesting a public
      record will not be considered a records request under GRAMA.

SECTION VII – SECURITY
       Kearns will take all reasonable steps to ensure that its social media accounts are secure
from accidental or intentional attacks. Passwords should be adequately complex to prevent
cyberattacks and should not be sent through email. If a cyberattack is suspected for a social media
account, the moderator will immediately notify the Council and all applicable personnel.
SECTION VIII – ENFORCEMENT
        Any Kearns personnel found to have knowingly violated this policy will be subject to
disciplinary action pursuant to all applicable laws, regulations, ordinances, and policies.
SECTION IX – DISCLAIMERS
        Moderators will post in a prominent location on all Kearns social media accounts a link to
this policy, the language in Section VI(1) of this policy, and the following disclaimers:
   1. Opinions Expressed Are Not Necessarily Those of Kearns: Comments posted by users on
      Kearns’s social media accounts are the opinion of the user and do not necessarily reflect
      the opinion or policy of Kearns or its elected officials, personnel, agents, commissions,
      boards, or committees.

   2. No Guarantee of Accurateness: Kearns does not guarantee the completeness or accuracy
      of any information posted on its social media accounts.

   3. No Liability: Neither Kearns nor its personnel are liable for any injury or damages resulting
      from viewing, distributing, or copying materials posted to Kearns’s social media accounts,
      including without limitation, liability for indirect, special, incidental, or consequential
      damages.

   4. No Legal Notice: Comments made to Kearns’s social media accounts do not constitute
      legal notice or official notice or comment by Kearns or its personnel and will not be
      regarded as a request for Kearns to provide service or take any action. If a dangerous
      condition exists, users are advised to contact the Unified Police Department, the Unified
      Fire Department, the applicable public utility, or other relevant department or personnel.

   5. No Response Required: Comments posted to Kearns’s social media accounts do not require
      responses from Kearns or its personnel.



                                                 7
   6. Outside Links: Kearns’s social media accounts may contain links to websites and other
      accounts that Kearns and its personnel do not own or control. Kearns is not responsible for
      any content that appears on those websites or accounts and provides links to those websites
      and accounts for convenience only.

   7. Compliance with Social Media Policy Required: All users must comply with Kearns’s
      social media policy as an express condition of their participation in Kearns’s social media
      accounts. Kearns reserves the right to hide, remove, mute, or delete information posted by
      a user that violates the terms. Repeated or egregious violations of Kearns’s social media
      policy may result in denial of access to all applicable Kearns social media accounts. All
      threats to public safety or persons will be immediately removed and reported to the
      applicable public safety authorities.

ARTICLE X – KEARNS LOGO
   1. Use of Logo for External Communications: To the extent possible, the Kearns logo will be
      used on all external communications, including but not limited to letters, newsletters, press
      releases, invitations, flyers, posters, signage, websites, social media pages, and any item
      requiring a symbol of identity.

   2. Use of Logo by Outside Entities: The Kearns logo may not be used by any outside entity
      without the Council’s prior written consent.

   3. Changes to Logo: The Kearns logo may not be altered in any way without the Council’s
      prior written consent.

ARTICLE XI – EDUCATION
        The mayor will ensure that those personnel that work with social media understand this
policy. The mayor may delegate the others the responsibility of training personnel on this policy.
ARTICLE XII – SEPARATION OF KEARNS SOCIAL MEDIA ACCOUNTS FROM
PRIVATE ACCOUNTS
        Kearns personnel are prohibited from using personal social media accounts to conduct
official Kearns business.




                                                8
