RESOLUTION NO.) 7 U8) Masi a - , 2017
A RESOLUTION OF THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
APPROVING THE RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR THE KEARNS METRO
TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION

RECITALS
1, The Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission (the “Commission”) has
reviewed and recommended approval of Rules of Procedure (“Bylaws”) to govern their
operations.
De it has been determined that the best interest of the Kearns Metro Township and
the general public will be served by the approval of the Bylaws attached to this Resolution.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED by the Kearns Metro Township
Council that the Bylaws for the Commission attached hereto as Exhibit A, are hereby approved.
APPROVED and ADOPTED this i day of } V oy g 2017.
KEARNS ME oy COUNCIL
By: BA
Steve PeNy, Chart
wy
Shertie Swensen, Metro Township Clerk
Kearns Metro Township Council Member Bush voting KA
Kearns Metro Township Council Member Perry voting
Kearns Metro Township Council Member Peterson voting iy rd
Kearns Metro Township Council Member Schaeffer voting
Kearns Metro Township Council Member Snow voting AYe,
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Metro Township Attorney
Date e~Z~ fp

EXHIBIT A

Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission
RULES OF PROCEDURE
These Rules and Procedures (“Rules of Procedure”) shall govern the proceedings of the Kearns Metro
Township Planning Commission (herein referred to as “the Commission”) and shall be consistent with
applicable provisions of the Utah Code and Kearns Metro Township Code of Ordinances.
I. Authority and Duties
The Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission shall act on all planning matters that arise within the
Township’s jurisdiction as required or permitted by the Kearns Metro Township Code of Ordinances.

il. Membership
Section {. Appointment of Members— Any resident of Kearns Metro Township interested in the authority
and duties of the Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission may be appointed a Member as outlined
in Kearns Metro Township ordinance and in line with the approved policies and procedures of the Kearns
Metro Township Council. Any resident residing within the Township interested in the authority and duties
of the Township Planning Commission may be appointed a Member of the Kearns Metro
Township Planning Commission as outlined in Kearns Metro Township ordinance and in line with the
approved policies and procedures of the Kearns Metro Township Council. All members including those
seeking reappointment must follow the application and appointment policies set forth by the Kearns
Metro Township Council. Membership shall be available without regard to race, color, creed, sex,
religion, age, disability, sexual orientation, marital status, or national origin.

1. Membership — The Commission shall be composed of three (3) Regular Members and two (2)
alternates members (“Alternate Members”) appointed by the Kearns Metro Township Council.
Regular Members, together with Alternate Members (when applicable) shall be referred to as
“Members.”

2. Alternates — Two (2) appointed Alternates designated as “Alternate One” and “Alternate Two”
shall serve in place of any absent Regular Member. Alternates should attend and participate as
Commission Members at each meeting, but shall only vote when not all Regular Members are
present. If only one Regular Member is absent for a meeting, the designated “Alternate One”
shall serve as a Regular Member for that meeting. If “Alternate One” is not present, “Alternate
Two” shall serve as a Regular Member for that Meeting. If two Alternates are needed, “Alternate
One” and “Alternate Two” shall both serve as Regular Members for that meeting.

Section 2. Rights of Members~ All Members, including the Chair, shall be entitled to one vote on all
matters properly brought before the Commission for action. Proxy votes shall not be permitted and
Members must be present to vote unless otherwise allowed by a duly adopted policy on electronic
meetings.

Section 3. Supporting Agency — Salt Lake County Planning and Development Services shall be the
supporting agency of the Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission (“Supporting Agency”) and shall
digitally record all meetings, make recordings available to the public within three (3) business days, take

written minutes, and post all agendas and meeting activities to the Utah Public Notice website twenty-four
(24) hours prior to each meeting.
I. Creation of Agenda ~ The Supporting Agency staff, with consultation from the Chair,
shall create the agenda for each regular meeting and shall send an agenda to the
Commission. Additional items may be placed on the business meeting section of the agenda
at the business meeting by the Commission or Supporting Agency staff.
2. Other County and State agencies are encouraged to attend meetings and build
partnerships with the Commission. These agencies include but are not limited to:
a. UDOT
b. UTA
c. SLCo Public Works Engineering
d. SLCo Parks and Recreation
e. SLCo Public Works Operations
f. SLCo Transportation
g. SLCo District Attorney
h. Unified Police
i. Unified Fire
j. Salt Lake County Health Department
k. All Metro Township Community Councils
I. SLC Public Utilities
m. U.S. Forest Service
n. U.S. Army Corp of Engineers
o, Utah State Department of Natural Resources Division of Water Rights
p. Metro Township Council Members
q. Other Staff Members
r. Other Metro Township Planning Commission Members
Section 4, Commission Member Terms— Regular and Alternate Members shall be appointed for a term of
three (3) consecutive years. Members shall not be appointed for more than two (2) consecutive three (3)
year terms. A Member may continue to serve beyond their appointed term until a successor is appointed.
A Regular Member who has served two (2) full consecutive terms shall not be appointed as an Alternate
Member following their final term for a period of at least one (1) year. All appointments shall be made
with consideration for staggered terms.
Section 5. Training — Within three (3) months of being first appointed, all Members should meet with the
Supporting Agency staff to review the Rules of Procedure, the General Plan, and County Ordinances and
Policies. Failure to comply with this provision may result in removal of the Member from the
Commission, All Members should attend additional trainings scheduled from time to time by the Support
Agency. Attendance is also required at all training sessions and will be recorded,
Section 6. Attendance - Members shall regularly attend meetings. A Member may be removed from the
Commission if he/she has three (3) unexcused absences from Commission meetings within a one-year
time period.
Section 7. Excused and Unexcused Absences — A Member unable to attend a meeting must contact the
Supporting Agency at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the scheduled meeting and indicate the reason
a A Ney ener ereerrememerinneeerre emer ee
Kearns Metro Township PC - Rules of Procedure, April 19, 2017 Page 2

for being absent. Members who give less than 24 hour notice shall be considered unexcused, except when
the Chair has approved a valid reason. Any absences, excused or unexcused, shall be recorded in the
meeting minutes.
Section 8. Member Responsibilities - As a Member of the Commission, each member shall be
responsible to:
1. Read and study the agenda, staff reports and all attached documents prepared by Supporting
Agency staff so that they are fully informed about each application prior to the scheduled
public meeting.
2. Act in a courteous and respectful manner to their fellow Members, the Supporting Agency
staff, and the public, during all meetings.
3. Attend the meetings and arrive on time.
Section 9. Removal Proceedings — Removal from the Commission shall be in accordance with Kearns
Metro Township Ordinance by the Kearns Metro Township Council. In the event the Commission
determines, by a majority vote of all Members, that it is in the best interest of the Commission and the
Kearns Metro Township that a Member be removed, the Commission shall make a recommendation to the
Kearns Metro Township Council to initiate removal proceedings.
Section 10. Vacancies - A Member may resign at any time by giving written notice of such resignation to
the Chair and Supporting Agency. Resignations shall be recorded in the meeting minutes. Any vacancy
during a Member’s term shall be filled in the same manner as a regular appointment and the person
appointed shall serve the remainder of the unexpired term.
Section 11. Compensation and Reimbursement — Members shall receive no compensation for their
services. If authorized by the Kearns Metro Town Council, Members may be reimbursed for any
reasonable expense they may incur for activities conducted. All reimbursements shall be processed
through the Kearns Metro Town Council and must be in accordance with Utah Code and Kearns Metro
Township Ordinances.
WW. Officers
Section 1. Election of Officers — As the first order of business at the first regularly scheduled meeting of
the year, the Commission shall hold elections for the positions of Chair and Vice Chair from among
Regular Members by a majority vote of the present Members. All election practices shall comply with
Robert’s Rules of Order.
Section 2. Officer Terms - Officers shall serve a term of one (1) year and are allowed to serve up to two (2)
consecutive terms. Members shall not serve in an office beyond their Commission appointment term.
Section 3. Officers Duties
1. The Chair Shall:
a. Serve as the Presiding Officer of the Commission
b. Implement the Rules of Procedure
c. Coordinate with the Supporting Agency staff to provide an agenda for each public
meeting, and timely reports and other relevant information to the Commission
mene ERA TN
Kearns Metro Township PC - Rules of Procedure, April 19, 2017 Page 3

d. Execute all official documents and letters of the Commission
e. Identify and bring before the Commission such policy matters as are within the
purview of the Commission
2. The Vice Chair Shall:
a. Assist the Chair in all necessary capacities
b. Assume the duties and responsibilities for the Chair in all instances where the Chair is not
available or unable to carry out the duties and responsibilities
c. Identify and bring before the Commission such policy matters as are within the
purview of the Commission
Section 4. Chair pro tem — In the absence or incapacity of both the Chair and the Vice Chair for a
Commission meeting, the Regular Members present at the meeting shall elect a Chair pro fem to serve as
Presiding Officer only for that meeting. Alternate Members shall not serve as Chair pro tem.
IV. Meetings of Members
Section 1. A Quorum shail consist of four (4) of the current appointed Members and shall be necessary to
conduct any business of the Commission.
Section 2. Adherence to County, State, and Federal Law — All meetings shall generally adhere and
comply with Roberts Rule of Order. All meeting shall adhere to the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act,
and the Government Records Access Management Act (GRAMA).
Section 3. Regular Meetings — Meeting locations shall be publicly noticed and held each month. Annual
notice of meeting dates shall be published at the beginning of each calendar year. In addition, dates and
times of the meeting shall be posted on the Utah Public Notice website a minimum of twenty-four (24)
hours prior to each meeting in accordance with state law.
Section 4. Special Meetings — Special meetings may be called by the Chair or Supporting Agency staff,
with the consent of the Chair, at any time, provided that a preferred seventy-two (72) hours’ notice
(minimum of twenty-four (24) hours’ notice) is given to each Member before the meeting is held and a
minimum of twenty-four (24) hours’ notice is posted on the Utah Public Notice website. Such meetings
may include fieldtrips.
Section 5. Meeting Cancellation — Notice of cancellation of a meeting shall be posted. If a meeting is
rescheduled the new meeting time, date, and location shall be posted on the Utah Public Notice website a
minimum of twenty-four (24) hours prior to the meeting in accordance with state law.
Vv: Subcommittees
The Chair may create nine-month time limited subcommittees as deemed necessary. Members of
subcommittees shall be Commission Members.
Vi. Procedures
A. Business Meeting
errr
Kearns Metro Township PC - Rules of Procedure, April 19, 2017 Page 4

Section 1. The Commission shall conduct a business meeting as a component of each regularly scheduled
meeting. The Supporting Agency staff, or the Commission, by a majority vote, may adjust the scheduled a
time as needed. Members of the public may attend such meetings, but will not participate unless invited to
do so by the Chair.
Section 2. The first order of business shall be the review and acceptance of the agenda. The second order
of business shall be the review, correction, and approval of the minutes from the previous meeting.
Additional items may be added to the business meeting section of the agenda by the Supporting Agency
staff or the Commission, by a majority vote. The Commission may also discuss and render decisions on
noticed policy issues and administrative matters that do not require public input. Special presentations,
reports, and updates from the Supporting Agency staff that do not require a decision may also be made.
During a business meeting, there shall be no discussion of an application, request, or approval scheduled
for the regular meeting.
B. Meeting Procedures
Section 1. Order — The order of business at the regular meeting shall follow the noticed agenda. The
Chair, with the consent of the Commission, by a majority vote, or upon recommendation of the
Supporting Agency staff, may consider matters out of the agenda order.
Section 2. Decisions — A matter for decision will be placed before the Commission by motion made by
any Regular Member present at the meeting. The Chair shall not make motions before the Commission
except in the absence of a response from other Regular Members to an invitation by the Chair that a
motion on a pending matter would be in order. Any Regular Member may second a motion. Alternates
may make motions and second motions only if they are serving as a Regular Member for the meeting.
Section 3. A majority vote by the present Members in favor of a motion shall carry the motion.
Section 4. Following a seconded motion, the Supporting Agency staff may ask each Member to verbally
pronounce their name and vote and shall record each individual vote in the written minutes as an “aye” or
“nay”.
C. Procedures for Applications
Section 1. Application Public Hearing Procedure
1. Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at
any meeting of the Commission
2. Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure at a public hearing on an
application shall be:
a. Presentation of the application by the Supporting Agency staff, including its
recommendations and a summary of pertinent written comments and reports
concerning the application
b. The applicant’s presentation, not to exceed fifteen (15) minutes
;
Kearns Metro Township PC - Rules of Procedure, April 19, 2017 Page 5

LLL
c. Any group representing the area in which the subject property is located, not to
exceed five (5) minutes
d. Persons other than the applicant in favor of, or not opposed to, the application, not to
exceed three (3) minutes per person
e. Persons opposing the application, in whole or in part, not to exceed three (3) minutes
per person
f. Rebuttal by the applicant as necessary to respond to new issues raised by
other parties, not to exceed five (5) minutes
g. Surrebutals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.
Section 2. Application Public Hearing Rules
1. Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address
2. Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shal] be asked by the speaker or
Commission Members
3. Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time
4. The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the
desirability or undesirability of the application
5. The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented
and acknowledge that it has been noted in the public record
6. No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be
sufficient cause for stopping the speaker from proceeding
7. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted
8. The Chair or Supporting Agency staff may request police Support to remove offending
individuals who refuse to abide by these rules
Section 3. Discussion and Vote — After all presentations have been made the Chair may request or
entertain a motion to close the public hearing. Members may continue to discuss the application among
themselves. Following this discussion on the application, a motion must be made and seconded, which
may include; Approval, Approval with Conditions, Denial, a Recommendation to the Keans Metro
Township Council (as appropriate), or Continuation of the item toa future meeting for decision.
Section 4. Decisions —A decision of the Commission on an application shall be documented in writing by
the Supporting Agency staff and shall include reasons for the decision. The written decision shall be
posted.
VIL. Ethics and Conflicts of Interest
arene
ams Metra Tonnchin DC 0 _ _  ———
Kearns Metro Township PC ~ Rules of Procedure, April 19, 2017 Page 6

Section 1. Compliance -All Members shall abide by Utah Code and, annually compiete the necessary
volunteer forms, documents, and training.
Section 2. Voting Recusal: Member — See Section 2.07.201 (Kearns Metro Township Ethics Code,
Conflict of Interest), and Chapter 2.70 of Kearns Metro Township Ordinance (Quasi-Judicial Functions
Standards of Conduct) for complete requirements. A member of the Commission who has a restricted
conflict of interest as defined by Kearns Metro Township Ordinance shall declare the conflict of interest
and recuse themselves from the meeting. Members, who have unrestricted conflicts of interest as defined
in Kearns Metro Township Ordinance, shall declare the conflict of interest at the meeting, and may recuse
themselves, but are not required to do so.

Section 3. Ex Parte Communications — No member of the Commission shall have any ex parte
discussion regarding any administrative land use application before the Commission. Ex parte
communication means any communication with interested parties of an administrative land use
application coming before the Commission prior to the Commission reaching a final decision. An
administrative land use application means any land use application where by statute or ordinance the
Commission is the final decision-maker.

VIIL Amendments and Adoption

A. Adoption and Amendment Procedure

The Commission may recommend approval and/or amendments of these Rules of Procedure to the Kearns
Metro Township Council. All amendments must be consistent with all other Kearns Metro Township

ordinances and policies.

KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
aw
By: | a
Steve Perry, Chair

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

apg ako 7 ee aD Faces TAAL boner ee

Kearns Metro Township Attorney

Date: %-7-!F

Kearns Metro Township PC - Rules of Procedure, April 19, 2017 Page 7

REET TEE
