KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP, UTAH

RESOLUTION NO, | ¥- 0-0 | ( Loui \ % 2018

A RESOLUTION ADOPTING A NEPOTISM POLICY FOR THE KEARNS METRO

TOWNSHIP

RECITALS

WHEREAS, Utah law requires each municipality to comply with Utah Code 52-2-3 which
prohibits the employment of relatives by adopt purchasing policies to that effect; and
WHEREAS, the Kearns Metro Township is defined as a municipality under Utah law; and
WHEREAS, the Council of the Kearns Metro Township desires to adopt policies that promote
compliance with the state nepotism laws.

NOW THEREFORE be it resolved by the Council of the Kearns Metro Township that the
following is hereby adopted as the nepotism policy for the Township until otherwise amended or
repealed:

NEPOTISM POLICY

Purpose: To establish the Kearns’s Metro Township position on the employment of relatives
and household members in the Kearns’ Metro Township to avoid a conflicts of interest with
regards to nepotism.

Definitions: For purposes of this Policy the following definitions shall apply:

"Appointee" means an employee whose salary, wages, pay, or compensation is paid from public
funds.

"Household member" means a person who resides in the same residence as the
“Public officer" means a person who holds a position that is compensated by public funds.
"Relative" means a father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, sister, brother, grandfather,
grandmother, uncle, aunt, nephew, niece, grandson, granddaughter, first cousin, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, or daughter-in-law.
Policy: It is the policy of the Kearns Metro Township that it complies with all of the provisions
of Utah Code 52-3-1 et seq. governing the employment and supervision of relatives including the
following:

a. A Township public officer may not employ, appoint, or vote for or recommend
the appointment of an appointee when the appointee will be directly supervised by a
relative or household member.

b. A Township public officer may not directly supervise an appointee who is a relative or
household member of the public officer, unless: the appointee was appointed or
employed before the public officer assumed the public officer's supervisory position, and
if the appointee's appointment did not violate the provisions of this Policy in effect at the
time of the appointee's appointment.

c. When a Township public officer supervises a relative or household member under an
exception to this policy the public officer shall immediately submit a complete written
disclosure of the public officer's relationship with the relative or household member in
the same manner the public officer is required to make a disclosure under Section 10-3-
1306 of the Utah Municipal Officers and Employees Ethics Act and the public officer
may not evaluate job performance of or recommend salary increases for the relative or
household member.

d. An appointee may not accept or retain employment if accepting or retaining employment
will place the appointee under the direct supervision of a relative or household member
unless the relative or household member was appointed or employed before the appointee
assumed the appointee's position, and if the appointment of the relative or household
member did not violate the provisions of this policy in effect at the time of the
appointment.

Exceptions: The only exceptions to the above are as follows:

a. The appointee is eligible or qualified to be employed by the Township as a result of the
appointee's compliance with the Township’s merit system laws or regulations; or

b. The appointee will be compensated from funds designated for vocational training; or

c. The appointee will be employed for a period of 12 weeks or less: or

d. The appointee is a volunteer as defined by the Township; or

e. The Township’s Chair/Mayor determines that the appointee is the only or best person
available, qualified, or eligible for the position.

APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Kearns Metro Township, Salt Lake County, Utah,
this_(\ dayof Goa)  , 2018.
Kearns Metro Township Council
By: ° : a oe
ly ce air

rd
ATTEST:
‘ | - *
errie Swensen, County Clerk

Voting:
Council Member Bush ray IN
Council Member Schae “ 2 d
Council Member Snow
Council Member Petersen
Council Member Brown

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

Kearns Metro Township Attorney
