KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP, UTAH

RESOLUTION NO. |% = 0S —0| Mu ~ 2018
A RESOLUTION ADOPTING PURCHASING POLICIES FOR KEARNS METRO
TOWNSHIP

RECITALS
WHEREAS, Utah law requires each municipality to adopt purchasing policies to guide the
municipality in the purchase of goods and services; and
WHEREAS, the Kearns Metro Township is defined as a municipality under Utah law; and
WHEREAS, the Council of the Kearns Metro Township desires to adopt policies that promote
equity and fairness while ensuring that the Township gets the best value possible in its purchases.
NOW THEREFORE be it resolved by the Council of the Kearns Metro Township that the
following is hereby adopted as the purchasing policy for the Township until otherwise amended
or repealed:

PURCHASING POLCY OF KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP
ARTICLE I
GENERAL PROVISIONS

A) The underlying purposes of this policy are:

1) To ensure fair and equitable treatment of all persons who wish to, or do conduct
business with the Township.

2) To provide for the greatest possible economy in Township procurement activities.

3) To foster effective broad-based competition within the free enterprise system to
ensure that the Township will receive the best possible service or product at the lowest possible
price
B) Compliance - Exemptions from this policy.

1) This policy shall not prevent the Township from complying with the terms and
conditions of any grant, gift, or bequest that is otherwise consistent with law.

2) When procurement involves the expenditure of federal assistance funds, the
Township shall comply with applicable federal law and regulations.

C) Definitions

1) “Business” means any corporation, partnership, individual, sole proprietorship,
joint stock company, joint venture, or any other private legal entity.

2) “Change order” means a written order signed by the purchasing agent, directing
the contractor to suspend work or make changes, which the appropriate clauses of the contract
authorize the purchasing agent to order without the consent of the contractor or any written
alteration in specifications, delivery point, rate of delivery, period of performance, price,

quantity, or other provisions of any contract accomplished by mutual action of the parties to the
contract.

3) “Contract” means any Township agreement for the procurement or disposal of
supplies, services, or construction.

4) “Invitation for bids” means all documents, whether attached or incorporated by
reference, used for soliciting bids.

5) “Person” means any business, individual, union, committee, club, other
organization, or group of individuals.

6) “Procurement” means buying, purchasing, renting, leasing, leasing with and
option to purchase, or otherwise acquiring any supplies, services, or construction.

7) “Purchasing agent” means the person duly authorized by the Metro Township
Council to enter into and administer contracts and make written determinations with respect
thereto.

8) “Purchase description” means the words used in a solicitation to describe the
supplies, services or construction to be purchased, and includes specifications attached to or
made a part of the solicitation.

9) “Request for proposals” means all documents, whether attached or incorporated
by reference, used for soliciting proposals.

ARTICLE 2

OFFICE OF THE PURCHASING AGENT

The Metro Township Council shall appoint a Purchasing Agent. The Purchasing Agent shall be
responsible to make procurements, solicit bids and proposals, enter into and administer contracts,
and make written determinations for the Township.

ARTICLE 3

SOURCE SELECTION AND CONTRACT FORMATION - GENERAL PROVISIONS

A) Purchase not requiring sealed bids.

1) Purchases costing less than $\0.0obin total, shall not require bids of any type.
(Purchases shall not be artificially divided so as to constitute a small purchase under this
section.)

2) Purchases costing more than $\6~|_ but less than $4.+in total, shall required —__
(2 to 3) telephone bids.

3) Purchases made through the cooperative purchasing contracts administered by the
State Division of Purchasing or other governmental entity which has applied its purchasing and
procurement policies.

4) Purchases made from a single-source provider.

5) Purchases required during an emergency, i.e., an eminent threat to the public’s
health, welfare, or safety. However, as much competition as practical should be obtained; and,
such purchases should be limited to amounts necessary to the resolution of the emergency.

B) Purchases requiring sealed bids.
1) Contracts shall be awarded by competitive sealed bidding except as otherwise

provided by this policy.

2) An invitation for bids shall be issued when a contract is to be awarded by
competitive sealed bidding. The invitation shall include a purchase description and all
contractual terms and conditions applicable to the procurement. Public notice of the invitation for
bids shall be given at least | 0 days prior to the date set forth therein for the opening of
bids. The notice may include publication in a newspaper of general circulation.

3) Any procurement in excess of $49,000 shall require a legal notice in a local
newspaper of general circulation.

4) Bids shall be opened publicly in the presence of one or more witnesses at the time
and place designated in the invitations for bids. The amount of each bid and any other relevant
information, together with the name of each bidder, shall be recorded. The record and each bid
shall be open to public inspection.

5) Bids shall be unconditionally accepted without alternation or correction, except as
authorized in this policy. Bids shall be evaluated based on the requirements set forth in the
invitation for bids.

6) Correction or withdrawal of inadvertently erroneous bids before or after award, or
cancellation of awards or contracts based on such bid mistakes, shall be permitted. After bid
opening no changes in bid prices or other provisions of bids prejudicial to the interest of the
Township of fair competition shall be permitted. All decisions to permit the correction or
withdrawal of bids or to cancel awards or contracts based on bid mistakes shall be supported by a
written determination made by the purchasing agent.

7) The contract shall be awarded with reasonable promptness, by written notice, to
the lowest bidder whose bid meets the requirements and criteria set forth in the invitation for
bids.

8) The Township shall follow the procedures contained in Utah Code 11-39-101 et
seq. for the letting of contracts for the construction of building improvements or public works
projects as defined therein and any provision of this policy that conflicts with the provisions of
Utah Code 11-39-101 et seq. shall not apply to the letting of contracts covered by this chapter of
state law.

C) Cancellation and rejection of bids.

An invitation for bids, a request for proposals, or other solicitations may be canceled, or any or
all bids or proposals may be rejected, in whole or in part, as may be specified in the solicitation,
when it is in the best interests of the Township. The reasons shall be made part of the contract
file.

D) Use of competitive sealed proposals in lieu of bids (Requests for Proposals).

When the purchasing agent determines in writing that the use of competitive sealed bidding is
either not practicable or not advantageous to the Township, a contract may be entered into by
competitive sealed proposals. Competitive sealed proposals are most appropriately used for
professional service-type contracts.

1) Proposals shall be solicited through a request for proposals. Public notice of the
request for proposals shall be given at least_\0O days prior to the advertised date of the opening
of the proposals.

2) Proposals shall be opened so as to avoid disclosure of contents to competing
offerors during the process of negotiation. A register of proposals shall be prepared and shall be

open for public inspection after contract award.

3) The request for proposals shall state the relative importance of price and other
evaluating factors.

4) Offerors shall be accorded fair and equal treatment with respect to any
opportunity for discussion and revision of proposals, and revisions may be permitted after
submissions and prior to award for the purpose of obtaining best and final offers. In conduction
discussions, there shall be no disclosure of any information derived from proposals submitted by
competing offerors.

5) Award shall be made to the person whose proposal is determined, in writing, to be
the most advantageous to the Township, taking into consideration price and the evaluation
factors set forth in the request for proposals. No other factors or criteria shall be used in the
evaluation. The contract file shall contain the basis on which the award is made.

E) Architect-Engineer services are qualification-based procurements. Requests for such
services should be publicly announced. Contracts should be negotiated by the Township based
on demonstrated competence at fair and reasonable prices.
F) Determination of nonresponsibility of bidder.
Determination of nonresponsibility of a bidder or offeror shall be made in writing. The
unreasonable failure of a bidder or offeror to promptly supply information in connection with an
inquiry with respect to responsibility may be grounds for a determination of nonresponsibility
with respect to the bidder or offeror. Information furnished by a bidder or offeror pursuant to this
section shall not be disclosed outside of the purchasing division without prior written consent by
the bidder or offeror.
G) Cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost contracts prohibited.
Subject to the limitations of this section, any type of contract which will promote the best
interests of the Township may be used, provided that the use of a cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost
contract is prohibited. A cost-reimbursement contract may be used only when a determination is
made in writing that such contract is likely to be less costly to the Township than any other type
or that it is impracticable to obtain the supplies, services, or construction, required except under
such a contract.

ARTICLE 4

APPEALS

A) Any actual or prospective bidder, offeror, or contractor who is aggrieved in connection
with the solicitation or award of a contract may appeal to the purchasing agent. An appeal shall
be submitted in writing within 5 working days after the aggrieved person knows or should have
known of the facts.
B) The purchasing agent shall promptly issue a written decision regarding any appeal, if it is
not settled by a mutual agreement. The decision shall state the reasons for the action taken and
inform the protestor, contractor, or prospective contractor of the right to appeal to the Township

Council.
C) The Township Council shall be the final appeal on the Township level.
ARTICLE 5
ETHICS IN PUBLIC CONTRACTING
A) No person involved in making procurement decisions may have personal investments in
| any business entity which will create a substantial conflict between their private interests and
| their public duties.
B) Any person involved in making procurement decisions is guilty of a felony if the person
asks, receives, or offers to receive any emolument, gratuity, contribution, loan, or reward, or any
promise thereof, either for the person s own use or the use or benefit of any other person or
organization from any person or organization interested in selling to the Township.
APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Kearns Metro Township, Salt Lake County, Utah,
this \\. day of WML , 2018.
Ke Metro Township Council
Kelty BishYEh
ATTEST:
CY JRAK - ue
Sherrie Swensen, County Clerk
Voting:
Council Member Bush
Council Member Schaeffer
Council Member Snow
Council Member Petersen
' Council Member Brown _ (
Kearns Metro Township Attorney
