KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
RESOLUTION NO. {70 2°0) | DATE: -Februayy 1.201) .
a. hE aaa a a
A RESOLUTION OF THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL APPROVING
AND AUTHORIZING EXECUTION OF AN INTERLOCAL COOPERATION
AGREEMENT BETWEEN SALT LAKE COUNTY AND KEARNS METRO
TOWNSHIP PROVIDING FOR A CONTRIBUTION OF $5,000 BY SALT LAKE
COUNTY TO THE TOWNSHIP TO HELP THE TOWNSHIP COVER MUNICIPAL
STARTUP COSTS
RECITALS

A. Salt Lake County (the "County") is a county existing pursuant to Article
XI, Section | of the Utah Constitution.

B. Kearns Metro Township (the "Metro Township") is a newly formed
metro township pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §§ 10-2a-401 et seq.

C; The County desires to grant $5,000 of County funds to the Metro
Township to help the Metro Township cover municipal startup costs (the "Startup
Funds"), and the Metro Township is willing to accept the grant of the Startup Funds.

D. The County and the Metro Township are "public agencies" as defined by the
Utah Interlocal Cooperation Act, Utah Code Ann. §§ 11-13-101 e¢ seq. (the “Interlocal
Cooperation Act”). and, as such, the County is authorized to share its tax or other revenues
with the Metro Township pursuant Section | 1-13-215 of the Interlocal Cooperation Act.

E. The Metro Township and the County now desire to enter into the Interlocal
Cooperation Agreement attached hereto as ATTACHM ENT A (the "Interlocal Agreement")
wherein the County agrees to grant the Startup Funds to the Metro Township to help the
Metro Township cover municipal startup costs.

Es The Metro Township believes that its receipt and use of contribution and
assistance under the Agreement is in the best interests of the Metro Township’s residents.

RESOLUTION

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED, by the Kearns Metro Township
Council:

1. That the Interlocal Agreement between Salt Lake County and Kearns Metro

Township is approved, in substantially the form attached hereto as ATTACHMENT

A, and that the Chair of the Kearns Metro Township is authorized to execute the

same.

2. That the Interlocal Agreement will become effective as stated in the Interlocal

Agreement.

APPROVED AND ADOPTED IN KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP, SALT LAKE
COUNTY, UTAH, THIS _[') day of eJorUctic+ , 2017.
{ , os
“ CHAIR, TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
ATTEST:
DyA i ‘
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
St £ if JA bx gee
ATTORNEY FOR THE METRO TOWNSHIP
VOTING:
a
Council] Member Bush voting mae
Council Member Perry voting Paw
fet gs
Council Member Peterson voting PAG
: Beh 85
Council Member Schaeffer voting Kk \
Council Member Snow voting PAY

ATTACHMENT A
Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between Salt Lake County and Kearns Metro Township
3

a |Z
SALT LAKE
COUNTY
a
Contract Number: 0000001437 Version: 1 Desc: TWN MetroTwnshpStart-UpContrib
Supplier Name: KEARNS MET?.c YOWN EHP
Comments: TWN- Interlocal - Kearns Metro Township is a newly formed metro township, County to
contribute $5,000 to the Metro Township to help cover municipal startup costs. County to transfer
funds within 30 days of contract execution. Term to the expenditure of all funds (approx. 01/11/2018)
Contract Amount: $5,000.00 |
ceTounchin@eniene OO t(‘=CSCSt
Agency Name: Office of Township Services
Period Performance from 1/12/2017 to 1/11/2018
Procurement Type: EXI Exempt interlocal
Reason Code:
Buyer: CEllis
SLCCVRWOS_V1

SALT LAKE ©
COUNTY |
January 10, 2017
COUNTY COUNCIL
Max Burdick, Chair
District #6 i
' Ms. Antigone Carlson
j Wil ; :
ane men : Contracts Coordinator
. Contracts & Procurement Division
Ber ennee Rm. N4-600, Government Center
i Salt Lake City, Utah 84190
Jim Bradley
lial Dear Ms. Carlson:
Arlyn Bradshaw
Pepiehes The Salt Lake County Council, at its meeting held this day, approved the
Michael H. Jensen attached RESOLUTION NO. 5160 authorizing execution of an
District #2 INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT between Sait Lake County and Kearns Metro
| . cc . . .
Aimee Winder Newton | Township — Funding for Municipal Startup Costs.
District #3 i
H Salt Lake County will provide $5,000 to Kearns Metro Township to help
eo lriale aes cover municipal startup costs. Kearns Metro Township will use the public
funds as authorized and required by law and the agreement.
Steven L. DeBry
Distiick #9 | The agreement will terminate upon Kearns Metro Township’s full
expenditure of the funds.
Pursuant to the above action, you are hereby authorized to effect the same.
Respectfully yours,
SALT LAKE COUNTY COUNCIL
SHERRIE SWENSEN, COUNTY CLERK
By __{ i ans des Ly Ad
Deputy Clerk (7
ks
pc: Darrin Casper/Mayor's Office
Salt Lake County Government Center
2001 South State Street, Suite N2-200 PO Box 144575 © Salt Lake City, UT 84114-4575
Tel: 385.468.7500 Fax: 385.468.7501 | www.slco.org

SALT LAKE COUNTY, UPAB

4A RESOLUTION OF THE COUNTY COUNCIL OF SALT LAKE COUNTY

APPROVING AND AUTHORIZING EXECUTION OF AN INFTERLOCAL

COOPERATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN SALT LAKE COUNTY AND

KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP PROVIDING FOR A CONTRIBUTION OF

$5,006 FTO THE FOWNSHIP TO HELP THE TOWNSHIP COVER

MUNICIPAL STARTUP COSTS

RECITALS
A. Salt Lake County (the “County”) is a county existing pursuant to Article XI,
Section | of the Utah Constitution.

B. Kearns Metro Township (the “Metro Township”) is a new! y formed metro
township pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §§ 10-2a-401 ef seg.

C, The County desires to grant $5,000 of County funds to the Metro Township to
help the Metro Township cover municipal startup costs (the “Startup Funds”).

D, The County and the Metro Township are “public agencies” as defined by the Utah
Interlocal Cooperation Act, Utah Code Ann. §§ 11-13-101 er seq. (the “Interlocal Cooperation
Act”), and, as such, the County is authorized to share its tax or other revenues with the Metro
Township pursuant Section 1]-13-215 of the Interlocal Cooperation Act.

E. The Metro Township and the County now desire to enter into the Interlocal
Cooperation Agreement attached hereto as ATTACHMENT A (the “Interlocal Agreement”) ‘
wherein the County agrees to grant the Startup Funds to the Metro Township to help the Metro
Township cover municipal startup costs.

F; The County Council believes that its contribution and assistance under the
Agreement will contribute to the prosperity, moral well-being, peace, and comfort of Salt Lake
County and Kearns Metro Township residents.

RESOLUTION
NOW, THEREFORE, IT 1S HEREBY RESOLVED, by the County Council of Salt Lake
County:
1. That the Interlocal Agreement between Salt Lake County and Kearns Metro Townshi pis
approved, in substantially the form attached hereto as ATTACHMENT A, and that the
Salt Lake County Mayor is authorized to execute the same.
I

2. That the Interlocal Agreement wil] become effective as stated in the Interlocal
Agreement.
APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Salt Lake City, Salt Lake County, Utah, this fot?
Steve Debry, Chairperson j-”
VY V
2 \ / . N
n ae / ex / 7
Sherrie Swensen
Salt Lake County Clerk
Voting:
Council Member Bradley beje
Council Member Bradshaw a ae
Council Member Burdick fe
Council Member DeBry Ave ©
Council Member Granato Aye t.
Council Member Jensen faye
Counci] Member Newton “Aye
Council Member Snelgrove _Abseni
‘ounci! Member Wilson “Aye ©
Cc ! Member Wi! _ five *
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Digitally signed by
f =z
A of p-w€E, Stephen Barnes
w SEG Date: 2017.01.09
15:36:25 -07'00'
Deputy District Attorney
2

Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between Salt Lake County and Kearns Metro Township
2

County Contract No.

Q000R IAB.

DA Log No. 17-07733

INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
between
SALT LAKE COUNTY
and
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP
THIS INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT (this “Agreement”) is entered
into by and between SALT LAIKE COUNTY, a body corporate and politic of the State of Utah
("County") and KEARNS MEFTRO TOWNSHIP, a municipal corporation of the State of Utah
(‘Metro Township”). The County and the Metro Township may each be referred to herein as a
“Party” and collectively as the “Parties.”
RECITALS:

A, The County is a county existing pursuant to Article XI, Section i of the Utah
Constitution, and the Department of Community Services is a department of the County pursuant
to Salt Lake County Ordinances, § 2.15.010.

B. The Metro Township is a newly formed metro township pursuant to Utah Code
Ann. §§ 10-2a-401 ef seg.

Cc. The County desires to grant $5,000 of County funds to the Metro Township to
help the Metro Township cover municipal startup costs (the “Startup Funds”).

D. The County and the Metro Township are “public agencies” as defined by the Utah
Interlocal Cooperation Act, Utah Code Ann. 8§ 11-13-101 ef seg. (the “Interlocal Cooperation
Act”), and, as such, the County is authorized to share its tax or other revenues with the Metro
Township pursuant Section 11-13-215 of the Interlocal Cooperation Act.

E. Moreover, the Parties believe that it is mutually advantageous to enter into this
Agreement and believe that the County’s assistance under this Agreement will contribute to the
prosperity, moral well-being, peace, and comfort of Salt Lake County and Kearns Metro
Township residents.

AGREEMENT:
Page } of 10

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and in compliance with and
pursuant to the terms hereof and the provisions of the Interlocal Cooperation Act, the Parties
hereby agree as follows:

PE. COUNTY’S OBLIGATIONS.

A. Contribution of Startup Funds. Within thirty (30) days of the Effective Date of
this Agreement, the County agrees to contribute Five Thousand Dollars and No Cents
($5,000.00) to the Metro Township, all on the terms and subject to the conditions of this
Agreement.

B. Past Due Balances. Any past due balances owed to the County may first be
deducted before any distribution of funds to the Metro Township.

2. Mrrro TOWNSHIP’S OBLIGATIONS AND REPRESENTATIONS,
A. Allowable Uses. The Metro Township shall use the Startup Funds provided under
this Agreement to cover municipal startup costs.
B. Public Funds and Public Monies:
eubiic Funds and Public Monies
(i) The Metro Township agrees that the Startup Funds are “public funds” and
“public monies,” meaning monies, funds, and accounts, regardless of the source from
which they are derived, that are owned, held, or administered by the State or any of its
boards, commissions, institutions, departments, divisions, agencies, bureaus, laboratories,
or similar instrumentalities, or any county, city, school district, political subdivision, or
other public body. The terms also include monies, funds or accounts that have been
transferred by any of the aforementioned public entities to a private contract provider for
public programs or services. Said funds shal} maintain the nature of “public funds” while
in the Metro Township’s possession.

Gi) The Metro Township, as the recipient of “public funds” and “public
monies” pursuant to this and other agreements related hereto, expressly agrees that it, its
officers, and its employees are obligated to receive, keep safe, transfer, disburse and use
these “public funds” and “public monies” as authorized and required by law and this
Agreement. The Metro Township understands that it, its officers, and its employees may
be criminally liable under Utak Code Ann. § 76-8-402 for misuse of public funds or
monies,

(iil) The Metro Townshi p agrees not to make Startup Funds or proceeds from
such funds available to any public officer or employee or in violation of the Public
Officers’ and Employees’ Ethics Act, Utah Code Ann. §§ 67-16-1, ef seg. (1953, as
amended),

G, Right to Audit. The County reserves the right to audit the use of Startup Funds
received by Metro Township under this Agreement, and the accounting of such use. If the
Page 2 of 10

County requests an audit, the Metro Township agrees to cooperate fully with the County and its
representatives in the performance of the audit.

D. Noncompliance. The Metro Township agrees that the County may withhold
Startup Funds or other funds or require repayment of Startup Funds from the Metro Township
for noncompliance with this Agreement, for failure to comply with directives regarding the use
of public funds, or for misuse of public funds or monies.

E. Representations.

(1) No Officer or Employee Interest. The Metro Township represents and
agrees that no officer or employee of the County has or shall have any pecuniary interest,
direct or indirect, in this Agreement or the proceeds resulting from the performance of
this Agreement.

(ii) Ethical Standards. The Metro Township represents that it has not: (a)
provided an illegal gift in connection with this Agreement to any County officer or
employee, or former County officer or employee, or to any relative or business entity of a
County officer or employee, or relative or business entity of a former County officer or
employee; (b) retained any person to solicit or secure this Agreement upon an agreement
or understanding for a commission, percentage, brokerage or contingent fee, other than
bona fide employees of bona fide commercial agencies established for the purpose of
securing business; (c) breached any of the ethical standards in connection with this
Agreement set forth in State statute or Salt Lake County Code of Ordinances § 2.07; or
(d) knowingly influenced, and hereby promises that it will not knowingly influence, in
connection with this Agreement, any County officer or employee or former County
officer or employee to breach any of the ethical standards set forth in State statute or Sait
Lake County ordinances.

3. GENERAL PROVISIONS:

A. Entire Agreement. This Agreement and the documents referenced herein, if any,
constitute the entire Agreement between the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof, and
no statements, promises, or inducements made by either Party, or agents for either Party, that are
not contained in this written Agreement shall be binding or valid; and this Agreement may noi be
enlarged, modified or altered, except in writing, signed by the Parties.

B. Term of Agreement. This Agreement will become effective immediately upon
the completion of the following: (i) the approval of the Agreement by the governing bodies of
the County and the Metro Township, including the adoption of any necessary resolutions or
ordinances by the County and the Metro Township authorizing the execution of this
Agreement by the appropriate person or persons for the County and the Metro Township,
respectively, (if) the execution of this Agreement by a duly authorized official of each of the
Parties, (iii) the submission of this Agreement to an attorney for each Party that is authorized to
represent said Party for review as to proper form and compliance with applicable law, pursuant
to Section ]]-]3-202.5 of the Interlocal Cooperation Act, and the approval of each respective

Page 3 of 10

attorney, and (iv) the filing of a copy of this Agreement with the keeper of records of each
Party (the “Effective Date”), This Agreement shall terminate upon the Metro Township’s full
expenditure of the Startup Funds received under this Agreement, unless terminated earlier as
provided in Paragraphs 3G, 3H, and 31 below. However, the Metro Township’s obligations in
Paragraph 3F below shall survive the ex piration or termination of this Agreement.

C. Interlocal Cooperation Act. In satisfaction of the requirements of the Interlocal
Cooperation Act in connection with this Agreement, the Parties agree as follows:

(i) This Agreement shall be authorized as provided in Section 11-13-202.5 of
the Interlocal Cooperation Act.

(ii) This Agreement shall be reviewed ag to proper form and compliance with
applicable law by a duly authorized attorney in behalf of each Party pursuant to and in
accordance with Section 11-13-202.5 of the Interlocal Cooperation Act,

Gil) A duly executed original counterpart of this Agreement shall be filed
immediately with the keeper of records of each Party pursuant to Section 11-13-209 of
the Interlocal Cooperation Act.

(iv) The term of this Agreement shall not exceed fifty (50) years pursuant to
Section 1 1-13-216 of the Interlocal Cooperation Act.

(vy) Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, each Party shall be
responsible for its own costs of any action done pursuant to this Agreement, and for any
financing of such costs.

(vi) No separate legal entity is created by the terms of this Agreement and no
facility or improvement will be jointly acquired, jointly owned, or Jointly operated by the
Parties under this Agreement,

(vii) Pursuant to Section 11-13-207 of the Interlocal Cooperation Act, the
County Mayor and the Metro Township Chair are hereby designated as the joint
administrative board for all purposes of the Interlocal Cooperation Act.

Dz. No Obligations to Third Parties. The Parties a gree that the Metro Township’s
obligations under this Agreement are solely to the County and that the County’s obligations
under this Agreement are solely to the Metro Township. The Parties do not intend to confer any
rights to third parties unless otherwise expressly provided for under this Agreement.

E Agency. No officer, employee, or agent of the Metro Township or the County is
intended to be an officer, employee, or agent of the other Party. None of the benefits provided
by each Party to its employees including, but not limited to, workers’ compensation insurance,
health insurance and unemployment insurance, are available to the officers, employees, or agents
of the other Party. The Metro Townshi p and the County will each be solely and entirely
responsible for its acts and for the acts of its officers, employees, or agents during the

Page 4 of 16

performance of this Agreement.
F. Governmental Immunity, Liability, and Indemnification.

G) Governmental Immunity. Both Parties are governmental entities under the
Governmental Immunity Act of Utah, Utah Code Ann. §§ 63G-7-101 ef seq. (the
“Immunity Act”). Neither Party waives any defenses or limits of liability available under
the Immunity Act and other applicable law. Both Parties maintain all privileges,
immunities, and other rights granted by the Immunity Act and all other applicable law.

Gi) —_ Liability and Indemnification. The County and the Metro Township agree
to be liable for their own negligent acts or omissions, or those of their authorized
employees, officers, and agents while engaged in the performance of the obligations
under this Agreement, and neither the County nor the Metro Township wil! have any
liability whatsoever for any negfigent act or omission of the other Party, its employees,
officers, or agents. However, the Metro Township shall indemnify, defend, and hoid
harmless the County, its officers, employees and agents (the “Indemnified Parties”) from
and against any and all actual or threatened claims, losses, damages, injuries, debts, and
liabilities of, to, or by third parties, including demands for repayment or penalties,
however allegedly caused, resulting directly or indirectly from, or arising out of (i) the
Metro Township’s breach of this Agreement; (ii) any acts or omissions of or by the Metro
Township, its agents, representatives, officers, or employees in connection with the
performance of this Agreement; or (iii) the Metro Township’s use of the Startup Funds.
The Metro Township agrees that its duty to defend and indemnify the Indemnified Parties
under this Agreement includes all attorney’s fees, litigation and court costs, expert
witness fees, and any sums expended by or assessed against the County for the defense of
any claim or to satisfy any settlement, arbitration award, debt, penalty, or verdict paid
or incurred on behalf of the County. The Parties agree that the requirements of this
Paragraph will survive the expiration or sooner termination of this Agreement.

G; Non-Funding Clause.

(i) The County has requested or intends to request an appropriation of Startup
Funds to be paid to the Metro Township for the purposes set forth in this Agreement. To
the extent Startup Funds are not appropriated and made available beyond December 31 of
the county fiscal year in which this Agreement becomes effective, the County’s
obligation to contribute Startup Funds to the Metro Township under this Agreement
beyond that date will be null and void. This Agreement places no obligation on the
County to contribute Startup Funds to the Metro Township in succeeding fiscal years.
The County’s obligation to contribute Startup Funds to the Metro Township under this
Agreement will terminate and become null and void on the last day of the county fiscal
year for which funds were budgeted and appropriated, except as to those portions of
payments agreed upon for which funds are budgeted and appropriated. The Parties agree
that such termination of the County’s obligation under this Paragraph will not be
construed as a breach of this Agreement or as an event of default under this Agreement,
and that such termination of the County’s obligation under this Paragraph will be without

Page 5 of 10

penalty and that no right of action for damages or other relief will accrue to the benefit of
the Metro Township, its Successors, or its assigns as to this A greement, or any portion
thereof, which may terminate and become null and void.

(ii) If Startup Funds are not appropriated and made available to fund
performance by the County under this Agreement, the County shall promptly notify the
Metro Township of such non-funding and the termination of this Agreement. However,
In no event, shall the County notify the Metro Township of such non-funding later than
thirty (30) days following the expiration of the county fiscal year for which Startup Funds
were last appropriated for contribution to the Metro Township under this Agreement.

H, Termination.
(i) Event of Default. The occurrence of any one or more of the following
constitutes an “Event of Default” as such term is used herein:

(a) Failure of the Metro Township to comply with any of the terms,
conditions, covenants, or provisions of this Agreement that is not fully cured by
the Metro Township on or before the expiration of a thirty (30)-day period
commencing upon the County’s written notice to the Metro Township of the
occurrence thereof.

(b) The Metro Townshi p no longer qualifies for recei pt of Startup Funds
under the laws of the State of Utah or under Salt Lake County ordinances or
policy.

(11) County’s Remedies in the Event of Default. Upon the occurrence of any
Event of Default, the County may, in its sole discretion, and in addition to all remedies
conferred upon the County by Jaw or equity and other provisions of this Agreement,
pursue any one or more of the following remedies concurrently or successively, it being
the intent hereof that none of such remedies shall be to the exclusion of any other:
(a) Seek repayment of any Startup Funds previously paid to the Metro
Township under this A greement; and/or
(b) Terminate this Agreement.

I. Force Majeure. Neither Party will be considered in breach of this Agreement to
the extent that performance of their respective obligations is prevented by an Event of Force
Majeure that arises after this A greement becomes effective. “Event of Force Majeure” means an
event beyond the control of the County or the Metro Township that prevents a Party from
complying with any of its obligations under this Agreement, including but not limited to: (1) an
act of God (such as, but not limited to, fires, explosions, earthquakes, drought, tidal waves and
floods); (ii) war, acts or threats of terrorism, invasion, or embargo; or (iii) riots or strikes. If an
Event of Force Majeure persists for a period in excess of sixty (60) days, the County may
terminate this Agreement without liability or penalty, effective upon written notice to the Metro

Page 6 of 10

‘Yownship.

Ji No Waiver. The failure of either Party at any time to require performance of any
provision or to resort to any remedy provided under this Agreement will in no way affect the
right of that Party to require performance or to resort to a remedy at any time thereafter.
Additionally, the waiver of any breach of this Agreement by either Party will not constitute a
waiver as to any future breach.

o. Compliance with Laws. The Parties shall comply with all applicable statutes,
laws, rules, regulations, licenses, certificates and authorizations of any governmental body or
authority in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, including, but not limited
to, those laws requiring access to persons with disabilities as well as the laws governing non-
discrimination against all protected groups and persons in admissions and hiring.

Ls Records. Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records and all
other records pertinent to this Agreement and the Startup Funds provided under this Agreement
must be kept readily available for review by the County from time to time upon the County’s
request. Such records must be retained and maintained for a minimum of three (3) years after the
end of a budget period. If questions still remain, such as those raised as a result of an audit,
records must be retained until completion or resolution of any audit in process or pending
resolution. Such records may be subject to the Utah Government Records Access and
Management Act, Utah Code Ann. §§ 63G-2-101 e/ seg.

M. Amendments. This Agreement may be amended, enlarged, modified or altered
only by an instrument in writing which shall be: (i) approved by the governing bodies of the
County and the Metro Township, including the adoption of any necessary resolutions or
ordinances by the County and the Metro Township authorizing the execution of any
amendment, change, modification or alteration of this Agreement by the appropriate person or
persons for the County and the Metro Township, respectively, (ii) executed by a duly authorized
official of each of the Parties, (iii) submitted to an attorney for each Party that is authorized to
represent said Party for review as to proper form and compliance with applicable law, pursuant
to Section | 1-13-202.5 of the Interlocal Cooperation Act, and executed by each respective
attorney, and (iv) filed with the keeper of the records of each Party.

N. Severability. If any provision of this Agreement is found to be illegal or
unenforceable in a judicial proceeding, such provision will be deemed inoperative and severable,
and, provided that the fundamental terms and conditions of this Agreement remain legal and
enforceable, the remainder of this Agreement will remain operative and binding on the Parties.

Q; Governing Law and Venue. The laws of the State of Utah govern all matters
arising out of this Agreement. Venue for any and all legal actions arising hereunder will lie in
the District Court in and for the County of Salt Lake, State of Utah.

PB Warrant of Signing Authority. The person or persons signing this Agreement on
behalf of the Metro Township warrants his or her authority to do so and to bind the Metro
Township. The County may require the Metro Township to return all Startup Funds paid to the

Page 7 of 18

Metro Township based upon a breach of warranty of authority.

Q. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts and all so
executed will constitute one agreement binding on all the Parties, it being understood that all
Parties need not sign the same counterpart. Further, executed copies of this Agreement delivered
by facsimile or email will be deemed an original signed copy of this Agreement.

Each Party hereby signs this Interlocal Cooperation A reement on the date written by

© Pa
each Party on the signature pages attached hereto.
[The balance of this page was left blank intentionally — Signature pages follow]
’
Page 8 of 16

INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT -- SIGNATURE PAGE FOR FRE COURTY
SALT LAKE COUNTY:
Mayor Ben*McAdams or DeSignee
Approved as to Form aud Legatity:
SALT LAKE COUNTY DISTRICT ATTORNEY
Digitally signed by
“ly Ly y€, Stephen Barnes
OACGAO 2 Date: 2017.01.10
12:33:49 -07'00'
By
Deputy District Attorney
[Signatures continue on next page. ]
Page 9 of 10

INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT -- SIGNATURE PAGE FOR THE CITY
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP
i
Attest:
dhe iS
Years , Metro Township Recorder |
Date signed: 7" | “I i
Approved as to Form and Legality:
METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
ia a?
Name: Paul tt Astrtog
Dated: de 4, 20 3 20lF7
Page 10 of 16
