KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP RESOLUTION
RESOLUTION NO. _\"} -\Q-O> Decuria, 2\ , 2017
A RESOLUTION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP
AUTHORIZING THE CHAIR OF THE COUNCIL TO SIGN THE MASTER
INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN GREATER SALT LAKE MUNICIPAL
SERVICES DISRICT, SALT LAKE COUNTY, COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP,
EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP, KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP, AND
WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP FOR MUNICIPAL, ADMINISTRTATIVE , AND
OPERATIONAL SERVICES.
RECITALS

A. The Kearns Metro Township Council is committed to participate with the
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District for its municipal services.

B. An agreement is needed to define the services and set out the various rights
and duties of all the participants in the municipal services District.

C. An Interlocal Agreement has been negotiated between the County, the
District and the Townships within the County to set out the terms of getting services from the
District and from Salt Lake County.

RESOLUTION

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED, by the Council of the
Kearns Metro Township:

1. The Chair of the Council is hereby authorized to sign the Master Interlocal
Agreement for municipal and other services in the form attached as Exhibit A hereto subject only
to the other participating entities approving the same form of agreement.

APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Kearns Metro Township, Salt Lake County,
Utah, thisQ\ day of December , 2017.

[SIGNATURE BLOCK ON NEXT PAGE]

STEVE PERRY, Chair
ATTEST:
To q
errie Swensen, County Clerk

Voting:
Council Member Bush voting
Council Member Schaeffer voting
Council Member Snow voting
Council Member Perry voting
Council Member Peterson voting

COUNTY
CONTRACTS & PROCUREMENT
CONTRACT SUMMARY PAGE (INTERNAL USE)
Contract Number: | MSDO0002
Sold To: Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services Dis
Description: MAY-Interlocail- County to perform municipal, administrative and operational services for
the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District and it's members according to Attachments A-F. MSD
to pay County according to rates established. Term 01/24/2068
Revenue Amount: $0.00
Agency Name: Mayor's Ooffice
Start Date: 2018-01-25 End Date: 2068-01-24
SLC CUST REV CONTRACTS

WZ, SALT LAKE
COUNTY
CONTRACTS & PROCUREMENT
CONTRACT SUMMARY PAGE (INTERNAL USE)
Contract Number: MSDOOC02 Version: 1 Desc: MSD Municipal Services to MSD
Supplier Name: SALT LAKE COUNTY
Comments: MSD- Interlocal - Salt Lake County to provide municipal, administrative and operational services
to the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District and it's members (Copperton, Emigration, Kearns, Magna
and White City Metro Townships). Services to include: Road and street construction and maintenance,
animal control, planning & development, municipal parks, capital projects, financial accounting, bookeeping,
reporting, budgeting, treasurer, information services, clerk, recorder, surveyor, engineering etc. according to
Attachments A-F. MSD to pay County rates as established by August 15th of each year by the County to the
District. Term for 50 years to 01/24/2068
Contract Amount: $0.00
Agency Name: GSL Municipal Service District
Period Performance from 1/25/2018 to 1/24/2068
Procurement Type: EX! Exempt Interlocal
Reason Code:
Buyer: CEllis
SLCCVRWOS_V1

SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
RESOLUTION NO,_ 5304 Sanuery T , 2018
A RESOLUTION OF THE COUNTY COUNCIL OF SALT LAKE COUNTY
APPROVING AND AUTHORIZING EXECUTION OF AN INTERLOCAL
COOPERATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GREATER SALT LAKE
MUNICIPAL SERVICES DISTRICT, SALT LAKE COUNTY,
COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP, EMIGRATION CANYON METRO
TOWNSHIP, KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP, MAGNA METRO
TOWNSHIP, AND WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP FOR MUNICIPAL,
ADMINISTRATIVE, AND OPERATIONAL SERVICES
RECITALS
A, Salt Lake County (the “County”), the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services
District (the “District”), Copperton Metro Township, Emigration Canyon Metro Township,
Kearns Metro Township, Magna Metro Township and White City Metro Township (collectively
the “District Member M etros”) are “public agencies” as defined by the Utah Interlocal
Cooperation Act, Utah Code Ann. §$ 11-13-101 et seg. (the “Interlocal Act”), and, as such, are
authorized by the Interlocal Act to enter into this Agreement to act Jointly and cooperativel yon
the basis of mutual advantage in order to provide facilities in a manner that will accord best with
geographic, economic, population and other factors in fluencing the needs and development of
local communities.

B. The County, the District and the District Member Metros now desire to enter into
the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement attached hereto as ATTACHMENT A (the “Interlocal
Agreement”) wherein the Parties enter into this Master Services Interlocal Agreement to describe
and delineate the scope of their mutual cooperation and commitment, and to identify Municipal,
Administrative and Operational Services agreed to by the Parties, superseding and replacing the
Initial Agreement between the District and the County.

G. The County Council believes that the arrangement under the Interlocal Agreement
will contribute to the prosperity, welfare, peace and comfort of residents in the District service
area within Salt Lake County.

|

RESOLUTION
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED, by the County Council of Salt Lake
County:

1, That the Interlocal Agreement between Salt Lake County, the Greater Salt Lake
Municipal Services District, Copperton Metro Township, Emigration Canyon Metro
Township, Kearns Metro Township, Magna Metro Township and White City Metro
Township is approved, in substantially the form attached hereto as ATTACHMENT A,
and that the Salt Lake County Mayor or his designee is authorized to execute the same.

2. That the Interlocal Agreement will become effective as stated in the Interlocal
Agreement.

APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Salt Lake City, Salt Lake County, Utah, this ‘T

day of Sanwa __, 2018.
Chairperson a -

ATTEST: ‘

> i t AN fa = ee SOL Lan A

Sherrie Swensen

Salt Lake County Clerk
Voting:
Council Member Bradley “Pye —_
Council Member Bradshaw voye!
Council Member Burdick “Aye “
Council Member DeBry “A ya”
Council Member Granato “Aye”
Council Member Jensen aye
Council Member Newton VA ¥e ul
Council Member Snelgrove * Aye"
Council Member Wilson » Aye ©

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

_/s Kelly W. Wright 1/3/2018

Deputy District Attorney

2

ATTACHMENT A com tacetoa
MASTER INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
GREATER SALT LAKE MUNICIPAL SERVICES DISTRICT, SALT LAKE COUNTY,
COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP, EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHP,
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP, MAGNA METRO TOWNSHBE,
AND WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP FOR
MUNICIPAL, ADMINISTRATIVE, AND OPERATIONAL SERVICES
THIS MASTER SERVICES AGREEMENT (the “Agreement” or “Master Services
Agreement”) is made and entered into by and between THE GREATER SALT LAKE MUNICIPAL
SERVICES DISTRICT, a local district and political subdivision of the state of Utah (“District”),
SALT LAKE COUNTY, a body corporate and politic and a political subdivision of the state of Utah
(“County”), COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP, a municipal corporation (“Copperton”),
EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP, a municipal corporation, (“Emigration”), KEARNS
METRO TOWNSHIP, 4 municipal corporation (“Kearns”), MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP, a municipal
corporation (“Magna”), and WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP, a municipal corporation (White
City). Each metro township and the County, through its representation of unincorporated
County, may be referred to separately, or collectively as “District Members” or “Members”.
Metro Townships (not including unincorporated County) may be referred to as “District Member
Metros” or “Member Metros”. The District, the County, Copperton, Emigration, Kearns, Magna,
and White City may be referred to individually as a “Party” and collectively as the “Parties.”
RECITALS
A. On January 13, 2015, the County created the District by resolution setting forth
boundaries as a municipal services district pursuant to the MUNICIPAL SERVICES DISTRICT ACT,
UTAH CODE ANN, § 17B-2a-1101 ef seg. (the “Act”). The District is authorized to exercise all
rights, powers, duties, and responsibilities of a municipal services district as provided by law,
The District was created to provide specified municipal services to residents of unincorporated
1

areas of the County and to those metro townships, cities, and towns that might choose to be part
of the District or to contract with the District for the provision of services. These services include
(1) road and street construction and maintenance; (2) animal control; (3) planning and
development; and (4) municipal parks maintenance; along with related administrative services
and Capital Projects (collectively “Municipal Services”).

B. On February 9, 2016, the District and the County entered into a one year
renewable interlocal agreement (“Initial Agreement”) whereby the County contracted to provide
personnel, services and assets, and to perform specified municipal and other services on behalf of
the District that were previously provided by the County for unincorporated areas including
townships. Other services included the provision of specified administrative and related services
such as Office of Township Services and use of County assets, etc. (“Administrative Services”).
The Initial Agreement was renewed by letter dated September 22, 2016.

Cc. During the 2015 general election, residents of various townships in
unincorporated areas in Salt Lake County voted to incorporate. Residents of Millcreek elected to
become a city while residents of the following township areas voted to become metro townships:
Copperton, Emigration Canyon, Keams, Magna, and White City. Millcreek and all five (5)
metro townships were incorporated on or before January 1, 2017. Under the Initial Agreement,
Millcreek and District Members received Municipal Services. Effective June 30, 2017, Millcreek
withdrew from the District.

D. In 2015, the Utah Legislature enacted UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-3c-203 (SB 199)
which assigns to various county officials and staff the authority and responsibility to fulfill the
duties of the treasurer, recorder, clerk, surveyor, engineer, and auditor of each metro township,
and to provide budgeting and accounting services for all metro townships. The district attomey

2

of the county in which a metro township is located may provide legal counsel to the metro
township as the county and metro township agree. The County further agrees to provide Justice
Court services and Prosecution services for Class B and C misdemeanors and infractions, and to
arrange for provision of Indigent Defense services in the Justice Court. Collectively, the services
and functions to be performed by the County that are the subject of this recital are referred to as
“Operational Services”,

E. Pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act, UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-101 ef seg,
(the “Interlocal Cooperation Act”), the County, the District, and all District Member Metros are
authorized to enter into this Agreement.

F. This Master Services Agreement addresses the provision of funding, budgeting
and accounting necessary to enable the District to pay full costs to the County for Municipal,
Administrative and Operational Services to the District, the five (5) metro townships and
unincorporated County. Subject to available funding, the Parties intend that the personnel,
services, and assets to be provided by the County will be provided on an actual cost basis, and
the Parties agree that such actual cost basis is reasonable, fair and adequate compensation to the
County for providing such personnel, assets and services.

G. The Parties enter into this Master Services Agreement to describe and delineate
the scope of their mutual cooperation and commitment, and to identify Municipal,
Administrative and Operational Services levels agreed to by the Parties. This Agreement
supersedes and replaces the Initial Agreement between the District and the County.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and promises of the
Parties, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are
hereby acknowledged, the Parties agree as follows:

3

ARTICLE I
COUNTY COMMITMENT
1.1 COUNTY SERVICES
Effective upon execution of this Agreement, the County shall furnish Municipal,

Administrative and Operational Services as defined below, including assets and personnel as set
forth in this Agreement to the District and to District Members for the term of this Agreement,
including extensions and renewals thereof, and as set forth in Attachments “A” through “F”, all
of which are incorporated by reference and made a part of this Agreement (at times referenced
herein individually as an “Attachment” or collectively as the “Attachments”).

MUNICIPAL SERVICES

A. ROAD AND STREET CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE SERVICES. The

County agrees to provide road and street construction and maintenance services,

including roadway and infrastructure engineering, to the District for the benefit of

its Members including, but not limited to, design, construction, repair, curb,

gutter, sidewalk, street lighting, traffic control lights and signage, striping, snow

removal, and local storm drain construction and maintenance. The provision of

these services shall include the use of County personnel, equipment, buildings,

supplies, assets, and other County resources. The road and street construction and

maintenance services, budget and overhead (accounting) to be provided are more

fully delineated in Attachment “A” and the related engineering services are in

Attachment “A-1”

B. ANIMAL CONTROL. The County agrees to provide animal control services

to the District for the benefit of its Members. The provision of these services

4

shall include the use of County personnel, equipment, buildings, supplies, assets,
and other County resources, The animal control services, budget and overhead
(accounting) are more fully delineated in Attachment “B”.
C. PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT. The County agrees to provide planning
and development services to the District for the benefit of its Members,
specifically including planning and development staff services. These services
shall also include business licensing, building inspection, and code violation
enforcement. The provision of these services shall include the use of County
personnel, equipment, buildings, supplies, assets, and other County resources, The
business and land use development services, budget and overhead (accounting) to
be provided are more fully delineated in Attachment “C”.
D. MUNICIPAL PARKS, The County agrees to provide municipal parks
services to the District for the benefit of its Members, including maintenance of
metro parks. The provision of these services shall include the use of County
personnel, equipment, buildings, supplies, assets, and other County resources.
The municipal parks services, budget and overhead (accounting) to be provided
are more fully delineated in Attachment “D”.
E. CAPITAL PROJECTS. The County agrees to provide capital projects as
directed by the District on behalf of its Members as identified in the County’s
budget and as provided for in the District’s budget. All capital projects completed
by or for the County shall be delivered to the District “turnkey”, fully complete,
inspected, approved and paid for by the County and ready for operation. Upon
completion of each such capital project, the County shall be responsible for the

5

operation and maintenance of the same as part of the appropriate Service to which
the capital project relates.
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES
F. ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES. The County agrees to provide Administrative
and support services to the District and to its Members, where applicable,
including revenue collection services; financial accounting, bookkeeping and
reporting (clerk) services; budgeting, treasurer services; purchasing
(procurement); human resources; information services; community liaison and
engagement; economic development; administration and management of project
areas created by the Redevelopment Agency of Salt Lake County as authorized by
interlocal agreement between the County and the Redevelopment Agency; and
similar services. The movinan of these services shall include the use of County
personnel, equipment, buildings, supplies, assets, and other County resources. The
provision of community reinvestment initiatives for new or proposed community
reinvestment project areas may be established through separate interlocal
agreements executed between the Redevelopment Agency of Salt Lake County
and each District Member Metro. Administrative Services are delineated in
Attachment “E”,
OPERATIONAL SERVICES
G. OPERATIONAL SERVICES. The County will provide Operational Services to
District Member Metros, as provided by law and as otherwise agreed herein,
and/or in one or more separate agreements, including budgeting and accounting
services, treasurer services, clerk and recorder services, surveyor services, auditor
6

services, and engineering services. The provision of legal services by the Salt
Lake County District Attomey’s office shall be established through separate
interlocal agreements executed between the County and each District Member
Metro consistent with this Agreement and in full compliance with Utah Rules of
Professional Conduct. The County further agrees to provide Justice Court services
and Prosecution services for Class B and C misdemeanors and infractions, and to
arrange for provision of Indigent Defense services in the Justice Court. The
provision of these Operational Services shall include the use of County personnel,
equipment, buildings, supplies, assets, and other County resources. The
Operational Services are delineated in Attachment “F”.
SERVICES NOT COVERED BY THIS MASTER AGREEMENT
It is expressly understood and agreed by the Parties that police and fire services are
provided by the Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area (SLVLESA) through the
United Police Authority (UPD), by Valley Emergency Communications, and by the Unified Fire
Service Area (UFSA) through the Unified Fire Authority (UFA) respectively, Notwithstanding,
County will work cooperatively with public safety partners to provide the best public safety
response possible to District Member Metros. Waste and recycling services will be provided by
Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District (WFWRD).
1.2. SCOPE
The County shall perform the Services in a professional, reasonable and responsive
manner in compliance with all applicable laws, ordinances and regulations (including but not
limited to all applicable environmental and safety regulations) and consistent with the agreement
of the Parties, and such other applicable requirements and standards of performance.
7

Subject to the foregoing, the exact nature of how the Services are to be provided, the
discipline of personnel, the maintenance of County assets and any other matters incidental to
providing the Services shall remain with the County in its sole discretion after consultation with
the District and/or the impacted Member Metro. Subject to paragraphs 5.1 and 5.2 of this
Agreement, the Parties further agree to acknowledge in writing prior to the end of each calendar
year during the term of this Agreement, which Services will continue to be provided by the
County for an additional calendar year and which Services will be discontinued upon expiration
of the then current calendar year. In addition, each of the Services covered by this Agreement
may be modified or extended with a minimum of ninety (90) days advance notice, provided that
the Parties reach written agreement on the particulars of the modification, cancellation, or
extension. Furthermore, it is the intention of the Parties that the provision of the Services
hereunder and the contracting of the relevant County personnel may, at some point in time,
transition away from the County to the District or to an interlocal cooperation entity created by
the County and the District, possibly in conjunction with one or more municipalities. Such
complete or partial transition will occur when the Parties agree to the transition and shall be upon
such terms and conditions as the Parties may agree to at that time, and such transition shall not
be subject to the termination requirements and deadlines otherwise set forth herein.

1.3. COUNTY ASSETS

As provided herein, the provision of Services shall include the use of all County
equipment, buildings, supplies, assets (including vehicles), and other resources (the “Buildings
and Assets”) necessary to provide the Services. The County shall at all times retain management
authority and control over its buildings and assets. The responsibility to insure, maintain, and
repair the buildings and assets shall at all times remain obligations solely of the County. The

8

cost to the District for the use of the buildings and assets shall be incorporated in and included as
part of the District’s budget as mutually agreed by the County and the District.

14 INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS.

The relationship of the County, and of any County employee, with the District under this
Agreement shall be that of an independent contractor. The County has the entire responsibility
to discharge all of the obligations of an independent contractor under federal, state, and local
laws, including, but not limited to, those obligations relating to employee supervision, benefits
and wages, taxes, unemployment compensation and insurance, social security, worker’s
compensation, and disability pensions and tax withholdings, including the filing of all retums
and reports and the payment of all taxes, assessments and contributions, and other sums required
of an independent contractor. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed to create
the relationship between the District and the County, or the County’s employees, of employer
and employee, partners, or parties to a joint venture. Should the District or District Member
Metro have any criticism, concern, or recommendation regarding any County employee,
specifically or generally, the District or a Member Metro may raise it directly with the head of
the County department or division under which the employee operates. The County shall
diligently and appropriately address an issue raised by the District or District Member Metro and
report back to the District or District Member Metro, as appropriate.

The relationship of the County, and of any County employee with each District Member
Metro under this Agreement for the provision of Operational Services shall be defined by statute
or by separate interlocal agreement in the case of legal services, or as otherwise provided herein.
For all other services, the relationship of the County, and of any County employee with each

9

District Member, excluding unincorporated County, shall be that of an independent contractor
consistent with the above paragraph.

In performing the Services, the County shall furnish and supply all necessary labor,
supervision, equipment communication facilities, uniforms, badges, and other items necessary
and incident to the provision of the subject Service in compliance with the requirements of the
law, including the Americans with Disabilities Act, and all rules and regulations adopted or
promulgated in furtherance thereof, as understood by the County. As provided herein, the
Services shall be provided and supervised by County employees. County employees shall
remain County employees for all legal purposes, including salary, rights, and benefits, and shall
retain their respective seniority, merit status, and all other conditions of County employment
except as otherwise provided in a separate agreement.

1.5 | REPORTS AND NOTICE OF PERFORMANCE. The County shall provide the
following reports and notices:

A. MONTHLY REPORTS. On a monthly basis, the County shall provide the
District General Manager, District Board, and each District Member Metro, a
summary budget update for the District and District Member Metro based on
available information in form and content agreeable to the District General
Manager, the District Member Metro and the County.
B. QUARTERLY REPORTS. On a fiscal quarter basis, the County shall provide
to the District a written report that includes a list of all District expenditures for
each category of Service outlined in section 1.1(A-G) of this Agreement, based on
available information and in form and content agreeable to the District General
Manager, the District Member Metro and the County.

10

C. ANNUAL REPORT. Annually, the County shall provide an unaudited report
for each category of Services outlined in section 1.1(A-G) of this Agreement, and
present such report to the District at a regularly scheduled meeting of the
District’s governing body held during the month of March. The annual report
shall summarize the information from the quarterly reports, demonstrate the
performance level of the County over the previous year, and demonstrate that the
County has complied with all of its obligations under this Agreement.
Performance and emphasis goals will be presented and discussed for the
following year during the term of this Agreement. The audited report will be
provided when it becomes available, but not later than August 31.
Dz. PERFORMANCE REPORTS. The County will provide upon request a general
performance report or update to the District and its Member Metros in form and
content agreeable to the District General Manager, the District Member Metro and
the County, regarding Services generally or regarding a specified Service,
including road and construction maintenance, animal control, planning and
development, and parks.
E. COMPLAINTS AND EXCEPTIONAL BEHAVIOR. Except for emergencies, all
complaints regarding Services listed in Section 1.1(A-G) shall be referred to the
County and the County shall be responsible for resolution of such complaints in
consultation with the District and/or District Member Metros as appropriate. On a
regular basis, the County shall provide to the District copies of any written
complaint(s) received regarding the Services. The County need not provide such
information if the County reasonably deems such notice to be a violation of any

11

merit provision or any applicable privacy law, or that such notice would
jeopardize any ongoing investigation or the safety of any person.
Notwithstanding, it may be shared with the District and District Member Metros
upon request if appropriate restrictions are put into place, such as redacted
complaints and related information, with private, controlled or protected
information deleted. Further, the County shall provide to the District copies of any
written documents demonstrating commendable behavior regarding the provision
of any Service. These documents may be used by the District to help measure the
performance of the County in fulfilling its obligations under this Agreement.
F, SERVICE EMERGENCIES. Municipal Service complaints that are of an
emergency nature or requests for municipal services identified above in Section
1.1(A-E) shall be resolved by the County division or department providing the
subject service in accordance with standards employed by a modern, well
equipped division or department.
G. ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURE AND POLICY DEVELOPMENT. From time to
time, the County shall, upon request of the District Board or District General
Manager, provide to the District Board and District General Manager private,
controlled or protected information under the provisions of the Government
Records Access and Management Act. The Parties agree to jointly develop and
implement a policy for communicating and safeguarding such information.

16 COORDINATION

12

County agrees to cooperate, communicate and work closely with the District General
Manager and District Member Metros to ensure the timely performance of the Services as
provided herein, including follow up with all Parties as the need may require or as requested.

ARTICLE I
DISTRICT COMMITMENT

2.1 POLICY.

Subject to available funding and resources, the Parties acknowledge and agree that, after
considering input from District Members, the District shall retain final decision-making authority
with regard to the type, scope, priority and quality of the Municipal Services provided under this
Agreement, provided, however, that the District will pay to the County not less than the
minimum amount required for the budgeted level of service consistent with each of the
Attachments to this Agreement.

2.2. BUDGETING AND ACCOUNTING.

The Parties agree that the District shall be responsible for funding all costs associated
with the Municipal, Administrative and Operational Services identified herein as well as funding
for each Member’s budget. Each year the District’s budget will be prepared, reviewed and
approved with input from its Member Metros and the County based upon reasonably anticipated
needs of the District and each of its Members. The budgeting process will comply with
applicable statutes and generally accepted fiscal procedures.

2.3. SERVICE COSTS

Subject to available funding, the minimum contract amount to be paid for any Service, as
set forth in the District budget, which, under generally acceptable fiscal practices, will
necessarily include a fund balance, is based on actual County costs to purchase, own, operate and
maintain the equipment and materials and to employ the personnel necessary to provide the

13

budgeted level of the Service. The District agrees to pay County the budgeted contract amount
identified by the District Budget to cover these base costs less offsets for income attributable to
the subject Services received by the District and its Members. Actual costs, including prorated
minimum contract amounts and costs for Services requested by the District in excess of the
minimum, will be billed to the District monthly.

The Parties agree to cooperate with each other to bring costs in line with estimated
budgeted amounts. Subject to the terms of this Agreement, the District shall reimburse the
County for actual full costs of the work performed, including labor, equipment, materials and
indirect costs, as outlined in this Agreement.

2.4 CHANGES IN LEVEL OF SERVICE. The District may modify (increase or
decrease) the level of any specified Municipal or related Administrative Service or accelerate the
timing of any component of the same if the District provides at least ninety (90) days prior
written notice to the County of such change and, in the event of an increase, the County approves
such change or modification and a modified rate schedule. The County shall use its best efforts
to provide any increase in a Service requested by the District. The amount due for such increase
or decrease shall be agreed to by the Parties in good faith and shall accrue as of the date the
modified Service becomes effective and shall be due and payable as provided in Article IV
below.

2.5 COORDINATION

The District's General Manager agrees to cooperate, communicate and work closely with
District Member Metro chairs and County representatives to facilitate the performance of the
Services herein, including timely follow up with all Parties as need may require.

ARTICLE Ill
MEMBER METRO COMMITMENT
14

3.1 ORDINANCES AND POLICIES.

To facilitate the provision of Services herein, and recognizing the County’s reliance on
applicable local laws and regulations in the performance of those Services, each Member Metro
agrees to provide County representatives with copies of current resolutions, ordinances, rules and
regulations that pertain to the Services identified herein as well as provide timely amendments
and updates to resolutions, ordinances, rules and regulations. Each Member Metro shall retain its
respective policy decision-making power and authority with regard to enacting municipal
ordinances, land use regulations, and other police powers as provided pursuant to law.

3.2. BUDGETING AND ACCOUNTING

Each Member Metro agrees that the District shali be responsible for funding all costs
associated with the Municipal, Administrative and Operational Services, as well as Member
Metro specific budgets as provided herein. Member Metro specific budgets will be for
administrative costs associated with specific Member Metro needs, ¢.g., office equipment,
supplies, legal services other than by interlocal agreement with the County District Attomey’s
Office, etc. Member Metro budgets shall be set by their respective councils with assistance by
County staff and administered as an Operational Service by County staff as outlined by the
Uniform Fiscal Procedure Act for Utah Cities (See, UTAH CODE ANN. §10-6-101] et seq.).
Member Metros will provide timely input to the District’s General Manager, not less than
annually and more often as appropriate, regarding the District’s budget to address the type, scope
and priority of Municipal Services anticipated to meet the reasonable municipal service needs of

each Member Metro.
The Parties agree to cooperate with each other to bring costs in line with estimated
budgeted amounts. Subject to the terms of this Agreement, the District shall reimburse the
15

County for the total actual costs of the work performed, including labor, equipment, materials
and indirect costs for all Municipal, Administrative, and Operational Services, as outlined in this
Agreement.

3.3. OPERATIONAL SERVICES.

Operational Services to Member Metros are defined by statute. Member Metros
recognize these services will be performed by County officials and employees who remain
subject to County ordinances, policies, rules and regulations. Such services shall be provided and
supervised by County employees who shall remain County employees for all legal purposes,
including salary, rights, and benefits, and shall retain their respective seniority, merit status, and
all other conditions of County employment. Costs associated with Operational Services will be
provided on an actual cost basis as required by law, and the Parties agree that such actual cost
basis is reasonable, fair and adequate compensation to the County for providing such personnel,
assets and services. The Operational Services budget wiil include a fund balance consistent with
generally accepted fiscal procedures. Member Metros shall retain final decision-making
authority with regard to the level and scope of Operational Services provided under this
Agreement consistent with statutory guidelines, provided, however, that subject to budgeted
levels of service and available funding, the District will reimburse to the County not less than
actual full costs as provided by law.

3.4 COORDINATION

Member Metros agree to cooperate, communicate and work closely with the District
General Manager and County representatives to facilitate the performance of the Services herein,
including timely follow up with all Parties as need may require.

ARTICLE IV
FUNDING
16

4.1. FUNDING SOURCES

As authorized pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. § 17B-2a-1109, a county, or, subject to
Section 17B-2a-1108, a municipality (including cites and metro townships) involved in the
establishment and operation of a municipal services district may fund the operation and
maintenance of the district through the sharing of sales tax revenue for district purposes. In
addition, the District shall, through use of County revenue collection services and upon final
approval by each District Member Metro, collect on behalf of the Member Metro all fines, fees,
charges, levies and other payments, that may be imposed by the District or District Member
Metros necessarily required for the Services to be performed, See, UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-3c-
205. As authorized by law and upon District Board approval, the District may at a later date levy
and impose a property tax. To the maximum extent authorized by law and as expressly provided
by UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-215, the Parties agree to share their taxes and other revenues with
every other Party herein, except as such tax or other revenue may be expressly restricted by law,
to fund Municipal, Administrative and Operational Services consistent with the terms and
conditions of this Agreement. The sustainability of this Agreement is contingent upon the
continuing receipt and sharing of Sales Tax Revenues and all fines, fees, charges, levies or other
payments and assessments that may be imposed and other revenues authorized by the District,
District Member Metros or the County that are associated with the Services to be provided
herein.

4.2 SALE AND USE TAX

All Sales Tax Revenues from the District service area shall be collected, distributed and
accounted for by the County for the District and its Members as soon as practicable, whether
through operation of law or by agreement herein and whether imposed by District Member. The

17

Parties agree that the collection and remission of Sales Tax Revenues from the District service
area to the District shall continue unabated notwithstanding the transition from unincorporated
County to District Member Metros or transitioning away from County services.

4.3 CLASS B AND C ROADS ACCOUNT REVENUES

Pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. §17B-2a-1108 (2017) and §72-2-108, and as otherwise
provided by law, transportation funds equal to the amount of class B and class C road miles
within District Members shall be collected, distributed and accounted for on behalf of the
District and its Members, by the County to fund the provision of Services herein.

4.4 CABLE FRANCHISE FEES.

All cable franchise fee revenue arising from the District service area shall be collected,
distributed and accounted for by the County for and on behalf of the District and its Members, to
fund the provision of Services herein.

4.5 FEES AND CHARGES

The County shall collect, on behalf of the District and its Members, all fees and charges
established by each Member or by the District for the Services performed by the County. The
County shall retain all such fees and charges and provide an offset for the same in accordance
with section 2.3 of this Agreement, where the County agrees to provide an offset for income
attributable to the subject Services received by the District and its Members. To the extent
necessary, the District and District Member Metros authorize the County to pursue the efficient
collection and enforcement of all fees, assessments, and fines within the District service area for
services provided by the County. District Members shal! maintain in effect valid fee ordinances
for Municipal Services, including road and street construction and maintenance services,
planning and development, and municipal parks. Fees associated with Animal Contro! will be

18

established by the County while providing that service. When necessary, District Members shall
pass a resolution delegating authority to the County to collect and distribute such fees to the
District. Copies of these resolutions shall be maintained by the District and shall be made
available to any person upon request.

4.6 GRANTS

Any and all grants, donations, and contributions applicable to capital projects or
to any other Service identified in Attachments “A” through “F” for use in the District service
area, shall be collected, distributed to the District and accounted for by the County while
providing services for the District and its Members to fund the provision of Services herein.

4.7 REMITTANCE. The division or department of the County that provides any of
the Services to the District specified in this Agreement shall bill the District on a monthly basis
for the Services rendered as set forth in the Attachment applicable to the subject Service or as
otherwise agreed to in writing by the Parties. Each County division or department shall submit
the monthly billing to the District, with the invoice presented to the District General Manager for
review and approval, within forty-five (45) days after the end of each month during which any
Service was provided. The billing shall cover all Services provided by the County division or
department during the monthly billing period, contain such detail as desired by the District, and
fully comply with the requirements stated in the applicable Attachment. The District shall remit
payment for Services within forty-five (45) days after the date of receipt of any undisputed bill
to:

Salt Lake County Public Works and Municipal Services

Attn: Fiscal Manager

2001 South State Street, Room N3-600

Salt Lake City, UT 84050

19

If the date a payment is due and payable falls on (i) a legal holiday recognized by either
the County or the District, (ii) a Saturday, (iii) a Sunday, or (iv) another day on which weather or
other conditions make the relevant County office inaccessible, then the payment shall be due and
payable on the next day which is not one of the aforementioned days. If any required payment is
not remitted to the County as and when due, the County shall be entitled to recover interest
thereon at the rate of one percent (1%) per calendar month, to accrue from and after the date the
remittance is due and payable.

Subject to all limitations herein, the District shal! pay to County the cost of Services as
reasonably determined by the County and as set forth in the annual District budget and
subsequent amendments to that budget, as approved by the District Board. Each fund in the
District’s budget shall maintain a fund balance consistent with generally accepted fiscal
procedures and best practices. The District shall reimburse the County for the cost of the work
performed for the District, including labor, equipment, materials, and indirect costs, if any, as
outlined in the approved budget and provided herein.

The County agrees to provide a minimum of three (3) months advance written notice to
the District before increasing any price or cost to the District as provided herein, to be applicable
during any subsequent calendar year, including an explanation of any anticipated price increase
for any Service for the next calendar year. Should the District dispute the County’s proposed
cost increase, the parties agree to work together in good faith to come to a resolution, including
the use of mediation through a mediator jointly retained by the County and the District. Should
the parties be unable to reach agreement, the District shall be free to secure the subject Service
from any other service provider and/or to retain personnel, materials, equipment, etc. as

20

necessary or appropriate for the District to provide the same, whereupon this Agreement shall
terminate respecting such Service, but not otherwise.

The Parties recognize, understand and agree that the Services to be provided by the
County to the District pursuant to this Agreement are not to be a “profit center” for the County
but, rather, are intended to cover the County’s reasonable actual costs incurred in providing each
Service. The Parties further recognize, understand and agree that the District’s annual budget
must be balanced as required by the Utah Code, particularly Section 17B-1-606(3).

4.8 | NON-FUNDING. The Parties acknowledge that the obligation of any Party to
perform as provided in this Agreement is conditioned and dependent upon the appropriation of
funds required for any payment due hereunder or to finance the provision of any Service as
provided in this Agreement. Each Party’s obligation is contingent upon funds being appropriated
annually for payments due for the provision of the Services to be provided under this Agreement,

If no funds or insufficient funds are appropriated and budgeted in any fiscal year, or if
there is a reduction in appropriations due to insufficient revenue, resulting in insufficient funds
for payments due or about to become due under this Agreement then, unless the Parties mutually
agree in writing to reduced Services and/or reduced payments that are in line with available and
budgeted funding, this Agreement shall create no obligation on the Parties or any Party as to
such fiscal year (or any succeeding fiscal year), but instead shall terminate and become void on
the first day of the fiscal year for which funds are not budgeted and appropriated or, in the event
of a reduction in appropriation, on the last day before the reduction becomes effective (except as
to those reduced Service(s) and/or portions of payments required to perform hereunder as agreed
upon by the Parties for which funds are appropriated and budgeted). Said termination shall not
be construed as a breach of or default under this Agreement and said termination shall be without

21

penalty, additional payment, or other charge of any kind whatsoever to the Parties, and no right
or action for damages or other relief shall accrue to the benefit of any Party to this Agreement.

4.9 DETERMINING FULL COST FOR SERVICES

The process for determining full cost for Municipal, Administrative and Operational
Services shall be as follows:

(A) By August 15 of each year, each elected official and County staff providing
Municipal, Administrative or Operational Services shall provide the District an estimate of costs
for the upcoming budget year based on the best available information, which will include all
direct and indirect costs, Each elected official and County staff shall disclose to the District and
District Member Metros how costs for Municipal, Administrative and Operational Services were
determined, including how all direct and indirect costs were estimated, and will provide relevant
time or billing records for the current year.

(B) The District will budget for each Municipal, Administrative and Operational
Service to District Members based in part on the County’s good faith estimate, recognizing that
various Member needs will fluctuate from year to year.

(C) During the year, each elected official and County employee providing Municipal,
Administrative, or Operational Services will maintain accurate records of such services.

ARTICLE V
TERM OF AGREEMENT

5.1 | EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERM. This Agreement shall be effective upon the
last of the following events to occur: (i) approval of the Agreement as provided in the UTAH
CODE ANN. § 11-13-202.5(1) and (2), (ii) delivery of the Agreement to an attorney representing
each Party for review as to proper form and compliance with applicable law, and (iii) the filing
of the signed Agreement with the keeper of records of each of the Parties, and shall continue in

22

full force and effect from year to year thereafter for 50 years, unless previously terminated as
provided herein.

5.2. TERMINATION. Pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-206(1)(a), the Parties
agree that this Agreement will continue from year to year unless terminated. This Agreement
may be terminated without cause by either the County or the District upon at least one year’s
prior written notice to the other Parties, as provided in this Paragraph 5.2, or upon the District
and the County’s failure to agree upon the cost to be paid by the District during any future
calendar year as provided in Paragraph 4.7 above. This Agreement may be terminated with cause
by a Party with reasonable accommodation to the other Parties as circumstances necessitate.

ARTICLE VI
NOTICES

6.1 WRITTEN NOTICE. For purposes of communicating and maintaining ongoing
contract management, written notices will be mailed or sent by email to each designated Party
identified below to the address or email on file with the District. Each Party shall be responsible
to maintain updated addresses and emails.

DISTRICT: Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District

District General Manager
With a copy to Counsel for the District
COUNTY: Salt Lake County

Director of Public Works and Municipal Services
With a copy to Salt Lake County District Attomey

Attn: Chief Deputy District Attomey
COPPERTON Copperton Metro Township Chair
EMIGRATION Emigration Canyon Metro Township Chair
CANYON
KEARNS Kearns Metro Township Chair

23

MAGNA: Magna Metro Township Chair
WHITE CITY White City Metro Township Chair
A written notice shall be effective immediately upon delivery as noted above or on the third
business day after deposit in the United States mail, first class postage pre-paid, addressed as
stated above.
ARTICLE VII
INSURANCE
7.1. LIABILITY
A. GOVERNMENTAL IMMUNITY ACT. The District, the County and District
Member Metros are governmental entities under the Governmental Immunity Act
of Utah, UTAH CODE ANN. § 63G-7-101, et seq. the (“Governmental Immunity
Act”). Consistent with the terms of the Governmental Immunity Act, as provided
therein, it is mutually agreed that each Party is responsible for its own wrongful or
negligent acts which are committed by its agents, officials, or employees. No
Party waives any defense otherwise available under the Governmental Immunity
Act nor does any Party waive any limit of liability currently provided by the
Governmental Immunity Act. Each Party agrees to notify the other of the receipt
of any notice of claim under the Governmental Immunity Act for which one Party
may have an obligation to defend, indemnify, and hold harmless a Party within
thirty (30) days of receiving the notice of claim. Each Party also agrees to notify
every other Party of any summons and/or complaint served upon the said Party, if
a Party may have an obligation to defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the first
Party, at least ten (10) days before an answer or other response to the summons
and/or complaint may be due.
24

B. INDEMNIFICATIONS. The County shall defend, indemnify, save and hold
harmless the District and District Member Metros, including, without limitation,
their elected and appointed officers, and their employees and consultants, from
and against any and all demands, liabilities, claims, damages, actions, and/or
proceedings in law or equity, including reasonable attorney fees and costs of suit,
relating to or arising from the County providing Services to the District or District
Member Metros. Similarly, the District and District Member Metros shall defend,
indemnify, save and hold harmless the County including, without limitation, its
elected and appointed officers, and employees, from and against demands,
liabilities, claims, damages, actions, and/or proceedings in law or equity,
including reasonable attomey’s fees and costs of suit, relating to or arising from
actions of the District or District Member’s agents, officers or employees, except
such demands, liabilities, claims, damages, actions or proceedings as may result
from the negligence or misconduct of the County, its elected or appointed officers
or employees.
C. INSURANCE. The County shall be responsible for insuring all of its
employees, Buildings and Assets (including the capital projects to be provided as
set forth in Attachment ‘“G” as and when they are constructed or installed), and
activities including, but not limited to, comprehensive all risk insurance,
commercial general liability insurance, worker’s compensation insurance, motor
vehicle liability coverage for owned and non-owned vehicles, and umbrella
liability insurance, for the benefit of the County, the District, and District Member
Metros in such amounts as may be prudent or legally required to protect against
25

any and every risk, loss, cost, damage and/or liability respecting the provision of

the Services, the County’s employees, the Buildings and Assets as described

above, etc. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the District and District Member

Metros acknowledge that the County may be self-insured as deemed prudent by

the Salt Lake County Council. The District and District Member Metros may

carry such additional insurance as may be deemed prudent by their governing

bodies.

7.2 It is further expressly understood and agreed by the Parties that the County will
not provide risk management or independent legal services except as provided herein and/or in a
separate agreement with each Metro, and aside from the legal and risk review necessary to
competently perform the Services provided within this Agreement. The District and District
Member Metros agree to review all policy and discretionary decision making with their own
legal independent counsel and insurers to provide direction to the County as the contractor in
performing directed services, and the County agrees to comply with all lawful directions from
the District and from District Member Metros.
ARTICLE VIII
DISPUTE RESOLUTION
8.1 CLAIMS AND DISPUTES. In the event of a claim or dispute between the
Parties regarding a Service, the Parties agree (without limiting any and all other legal and
equitable remedies) that a representative of the District and a representative from the affected
District Member Metro will meet as soon as practical with a representative of the County to
discuss and attempt to resolve such dispute. Ifa resolution is not forthcoming, then the
aggrieved Party may file a discrepancy report with the General Manager of the District or the
Director of the Public Works and Municipal Services Department of the County (as the case may
26

be). The discrepancy report shall be in writing and shall contain a detailed description of the
dispute and the aggrieved Party’s proposed resolution of the dispute. The Party receiving the
discrepancy report shall then have ten (10) days to notify the aggrieved Party in writing of its
agreement or disagreement with the proposed solution of the dispute described in the
discrepancy report.

8.2 MEDIATION. Claims, disputes, and other issues between the Parties arising out
of or related to this Agreement which cannot otherwise be resolved by the Parties shall be first
submitted to mediation as mutually agreed. Each Party shall be responsible to pay a
proportionate share of the costs of the Mediator. In the event mediation is unsuccessful, the claim
or dispute may be decided by litigation in the Third Judicial District Court of Salt Lake County,
Utah. Unless the provision of any or all of the Services which are the subject of this Agreement
is otherwise terminated pursuant to the provisions hereof or as otherwise agreed to by the Parties
in writing, during litigation of any such dispute the County shall continue to provide Services
and the District shall continue to make payments to the County for Services actually provided in
accordance with the terms of this Agreement. District Members shall continue to perform their
commitments under this Agreement.

8.3. RIGHTS AND REMEDIES. The rights and remedies of the Parties hereto shall
not be mutually exclusive, and the exercise of one or more of the rights or remedies provided in
this Agreement shall not preclude the exercise of any other right or remedy.

ARTICLE IX
INTERLOCAL COOPERATION ACT

9,1 COMPLIANCE WITH UTAH CODE ANN. 11-13-101 ET SEQ. The Parties
enter into this Agreement pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act. For the purpose of
satisfying specific requirements of the Interlocal Cooperation Act, the Parties agree as follows:

27

A. The Parties do not, nor intend to, create an interlocal entity by this
Agreement.
B. Each Party has submitted this Agreement to an attorney authorized to
represent the said Party for review as to proper form and compliance with
applicable law.
C. The duration of this Agreement is as set forth in paragraph 5.1 above.
D. The District may be funded by Sales Tax Revenues, by class B and C
roads account revenues, by cable franchise fees, by grants and by fines, fees,
charges, levies, property taxes, or other available funds. Such funds will be the
District’s source of funds to make payments to the County required by this
Agreement and, in the event and to the extent such funds are not timely provided
to the District, the District’s obligations to make payment to the County hereunder
shall be proportionately abated until such time as the required funding is provided
to the District. The District shall be responsible for formulating and approving its
annual budget and the County shall be responsible for formulating and approving
its annual budget and, in particular, the annual budget of each County division
and department that will or may provide any Service to the District as provided in
this Agreement.
E. Any or all of the Services which are the subjects of this Agreement may be
terminated or removed from this Agreement as provided in Article V.
F, Each Party will acquire, hold, and dispose of its own real and personal
property and there will be no jointly owned property upon the partial or complete
28

termination of this Agreement, including the termination of any Service to be
provided hereunder.
G. To the extent necessary to administer the cooperative undertaking set forth
in this Agreement, the General Manager of the District shal] have the full
authority and responsibility to administer the cooperative undertaking on behalf of
the District, and the Mayor of the County shall have the full authority and
responsibility to administer the cooperative undertaking on behalf of the County.
Each District Member Metro chair shall have the full authority and responsibility
to administer the cooperative undertaking on behalf of that Member Metro.
Although it is not anticipated that voting will be required, to the extent that voting
is required, voting shall be made on the basis of one vote per Party, and not
weighted.
H. Since this Agreement cannot take effect under the Interlocal Cooperation
Act until it is approved, signed, and filed with the keeper of records of each of the
Parties, each Party agrees, immediately upon approval and execution of this
Agreement, to file the signed Agreement with the keeper of records of the said
Party.
I. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event that this
Agreement does not satisfy any requirement of the Interlocal Cooperation Act,
which failure would cause this Agreement to fail to be effective under the
Interlocal Cooperation Act, this Agreement shall nevertheless be fully binding
upon and enforceable by the Parties pursuant to law outside of the application of
the Interlocal Cooperation Act.

29

ARTICLE X
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

10.1 APPLICABLE LAW. The provisions of this Agreement shall be governed by
and be construed in accordance with the laws of the state of Utah.

10.2. INTEGRATION. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the
Parties regarding those subjects that are the subject matter of this Agreement, and this
Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings between the Parties.

10.3. WAIVER. No failure by any Party to insist upon strict performance of any
covenant, duty, agreement, or condition of this Agreement, or to exercise any right or remedy
consequent upon a breach thereof, shall constitute a waiver of any such breach or of any other
covenant, agreement, term, or condition of this Agreement. Any Party may, by notice delivered
in the manner provided in this Agreement, but shall be under no obligation to, waive any of its
rights or any condition to its obligations hereunder, or any duty, obligation or covenant of any
other Party. No waiver shall affect or alter the remainder of this Agreement, but each and every
other covenant, agreement, term, and condition hereof shall continue in full force and effect with
respect to any other then existing or subsequently occurring breach.

10.4 AMENDMENT. The Parties may amend this Agreement in a writing duly signed
by all Parties.

10.5 NO AGENCY. Agents, employees, or representatives of any Party shall not be
deemed to be agents, employees, or representatives of any other Party.

10.6 TITLES AND CAPTIONS. All paragraph and subparagraph titles and captions
herein are for convenience only. Such titles and captions shall not be deemed to be part of this
Agreement and shall in no way define, limit, augment, extend or describe the scope, content or
intent of any part or parts hereof.

30

10.7 SEVERABILITY. In the event that any condition, covenant, or other provision
hereof is held to be invalid, void, or unenforceable, the same shall be deemed severable from the
remainder of this Agreement and shal! in no way affect any other covenant, condition, or
provision herein contained. If such condition, covenant, or provision shall be deemed invalid
due to its scope or breadth, such provision shall be deemed valid to the extent of the scope or
breadth permitted by law.

10.8 TIME. Time is the essence hereof.

10.9 SURVIAL. All agreements, covenants, representations and warranties contained
herein shall survive the execution of this Agreement and shall continue in full force and effect
throughout the term of this Agreement.

10.10 COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of
which shall be deemed an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same
instrument.

IN WITNESS WHEREOTF, the Parties have subscribed their names hereon and caused
this Agreement to be duly executed effective as provided in Paragraph 5.1 hereof.

GREATER SALT LAKE MUNICIPAL SALT LAKE COUNTY
we aA . 8
Chdir Rick Graham, -
Date: /O 22 / ge rhea Public Works & Municipal

Date: l-a $- | &
APPROVED AS TO FORM APPROVED AS TO FORM

/s Kelly W. Wright 12/21/2017
Attorney representing Greater Salt Lake Salt Lake County Deputy District Attorney
Municipal Services District

31

COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP EMIGRATION CANYON METRO
Ss uf TOWNSHIP
By: _ DA ee By: a
Chairé ~ Chair
Date: _ January 17, 2018 Date; ee
APPROVED AS Poy APPROVED AS TO FORM
Ltn, pal Metro Attorney representing | Emigration Canyon
Township Metro Township
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
By: ee _ ; By: ; a ee
Chair Chair
Date: a _ Date: a
APPROVED AS TO FORM APPROVED AS TO FORM
Attorney representing Kearns Metro Attorney representing Kearns Metro
Township Township
WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP APPROVED AS TO FORM
By: = ; ——
Chair Attorney representing White City Metro
Township
Date: ee _
32

COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP EMIGRATION CANYON METRO
TOWNSHIP i

By: By: wAer - fee cL€

Chair Chair
Date: Date: /2 <¢ j7
APPROVED AS TO FORM APPROVED AS TO FORM
Attomey representing Copperton Metro Attorney representing Emigration Canyon
Township Metro Township
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
By: By:

Chair Chair
Date: Date:
APPROVED AS TO FORM APPROVED AS TO FORM
Attorney representing Kearns Metro Attorney representing Kearns Metro
Township Township
WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP APPROVED AS TO FORM
By:

Chair Attomey representing White City Metro

Township
Date:
32

COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP EMIGRATION CANYON METRO
TOWNSHIP
By: Bye
Chair Chair
Date: Date:
APPROVED AS TO FORM APPROVED AS TO FORM
Attorney representing Copperton Metro Attorney representing Emigration Canyon
Township Metro Township
KEARNS ME; TOWNSHIP MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
By: By:
Chair Chair
ale: Ai) |- "\ Date:
aR FOR APPROVED AS TO FORM
Attorney representing Kearns Metro Attorney representing Kearns Metro
Township Township
WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP APPROVED AS TO FORM
By a
Chair Attorney representing White City Metro
Township
Date:
32
