KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP
RESOLUTION NO. 2024-4-1 DATE: April 8, 2024
A RESOLUTION OF THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL APPROVING AND
AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION OF A REVISED AND RESTATED INTERLOCAL
COOPERATION BETWEEN PUBLIC ENTITIES GOVERNING THE UNIFIED POLICE
DEPARTMENT OF GREATER SALT LAKE

WHEREAS, Kearns is a member of the Unified Police Department (“UPD”), along with the
Town of Brighton, Copperton Metro Township, Emigration Canyon Metro Township, Holladay City,
Magna Metro Township, Midvale City Corp., City of Millcreek, and White City Metro Township
(collectively, the “Members”) and

WHEREAS, several of the Members as well as other entities no longer affiliated with the
UPD, established the UPD via interlocal agreement effective January 1, 2010, which was also
subsequently amended (“the 2010 Interlocal”); and

WHEREAS, the original membership of the UPD has changed over the course of its history,
and the cities of Bluffdale, Herriman, Riverton, and Taylorsville have exited UPD, while Midvale,
Millcreek, Brighton, Copperton, Emigration Canyon, Kearns, Magna, and White City have joined
UPD; and

WHEREAS, throughout these changes and since its creation in 2010, the UPD has been a
provider of law enforcement and related services to its member municipalities and unincorporated
Salt Lake County; and

WHEREAS, H.B. 35 Metro Township Modifications passed during the 2024 Utah Legislative
Session and is awaiting an anticipated signature by the Governor, which, if signed, will convert
Copperton, Emigration Canyon, Kearns, Magna, and White City from metro townships into cities
and towns on May 1, 2024; and

WHEREAS, in July of 2024, Salt Lake County will exit membership of the UPD and UPD
will no longer be rendering service to Salt Lake County to comply with the requirements of H.B.
374, which the Utah Legislature passed during the 2023 Utah Legislative Session; and

WHEREAS, the remaining UPD Members want to continue receiving law enforcement and
related services from UPD; and

WHEREAS, because of the significant changes in UPD’s membership, the upcoming
departure of Salt Lake County, the potential conversation of metro townships to cities and towns,
numerous amendments to the 2010 Interlocal, as well as lessons learned since its creation in 2010,
the Members agree that a revised and restated interlocal agreement is the best means of setting forth
the terms and conditions of the continued existence and governance of the UPD; and

WHEREAS, the 2024 attached Revised and Restated Interlocal Agreement Between Public
Entities Governing the Unified Police Department of Greater Salt Lake (the “2024 Agreement”) is
intended to revise and replace, in its entirety, the 2010 Interlocal establishing the UPD, including any
amendments thereto; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act, Utah Code Ann. § 11-13-101 ef seg.
(the “Interlocal Cooperation Act”), the Members, all of which are “public agencies” for the
purposes of the Interlocal Cooperation Act, are authorized to enter into this 2024 Agreement, to
maintain an interlocal entity for the law enforcement and related services to the Members; and

WHEREAS, Kearns desires to enter into this 2024 Agreement to affirm the continuation of
the UPD, refine the description of its membership, and revise the governance of and terms and
conditions of service by the UPD.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that by the Kearns Metro Township Council that:

1. The attached restated and Revised and Restated Interlocal Agreement Between
Public Entities Governing the Unified Police Department of Greater Salt Lake (““Agreement”) is
hereby approved by the Council and the Mayor and is hereby authorized to execute the same on
behalf of Kearns.

2. The Agreement will go into effect on July 1, 2024.

3. The Mayor and Kearns’s staff are authorized to take such actions as may be
necessary to execute the Agreement and to implement this resolution.

APPROVED and ADOPTED this 8" day of April, 2024.

By>- :
K&lly Byak, Mayor
ATTEST
; (us Chapman f
Metro Township Clerk/Recorder
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL VOTE:
Council Member Bush voting wy
Council Member Butterfield voting xy
Council Member Peterson voting NG
Council Member Snow voting
Council Member Schaeffer voting RS
2

EXHIBIT 1
REVISED AND RESTATED INTERLOCAL
COOPERATION AGREEMENT
3

REVISED AND RESTATED INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
BETWEEN PUBLIC ENTITIES GOVERNING THE UNIFIED POLICE DEPARTMENT OF
GREATER SALT LAKE

This Revised and Restated Interlocal Cooperation Agreement (the “2024 Agreement”) is
made and entered into as of the 1* day of _ July, 2024, to be effective when all of the
conditions identified in Section 16 of this Agreement have been satisfied, by and among the CITY

OF HOLLADAY (“Holladay”), MIDVALE CITY (“Midvale”), MILLCREEK (“Millcreek”) and
the TOWN OF BRIGHTON, all municipal corporations and political subdivisions of the State of
Utah; and, COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP (“Copperton”), EMIGRATION CANYON
METRO TOWNSHIP (“Emigration”), KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP (“Kearns”), MAGNA
METRO TOWNSHIP (“Magna”), and WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP (“White City”), all
incorporated metro townships and political subdivisions of the State of Utah. All of the above
may be referred to individually as a “Member” and collectively as the “Members.” The interlocal
entity originally created and revised and restated in this Agreement by the Members is referred to
as the UNIFIED POLICE DEPARTMENT OF GREATER SALT LAKE (the “UPD”).

RECITALS

A. Several of the Members as well as other entities no longer affiliated with the UPD,
established the UPD via interlocal agreement effective January 1, 2010, which was also
subsequently amended (“the Agreement”).

B. The original membership of the UPD has changed over the course of its history.

The cities of BLUFFDALE, HERRIMAN, RIVERTON and TAYLORSVILLE have exited UPD.
MIDVALE, MILLCREEK, the Town of BRIGHTON, COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP,
EMIGRATION CANYON, KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP, MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP,
and WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP joined the UPD.

1

C. Throughout these changes and since its creation in 2010, the UPD has been a
provider of law enforcement and related services to its member municipalities and unincorporated
Salt Lake County.

D. H.B. 35 Metro Township Modifications has passed in the 2024 Utah Legislative

Session and is awaiting an anticipated signature by the Governor, which, if signed, will convert
Copperton, Emigration Canyon, Kearns, Magna, and White City from metro townships into
municipalities.

E. In July of 2024, Salt Lake County will exit membership of the UPD and UPD will
no longer be rendering service to Salt Lake County.

F. The Members to this 2024 Agreement desire that UPD continue to provide law
enforcement and related services to the Members. The Members recognize that the depth of service
provided by the UPD ensures that their communities are receiving consistent and high-quality
service.

G. Because of the significant changes in the membership of the UPD, the upcoming
departure of Salt Lake County, the potential conversation of metro townships to municipalities,
numerous amendments to the 2010 Interlocal, as well as lessons learned since its creation in 2010,
the Members agree that a revised and restated interlocal agreement is the best means of setting
forth the terms and conditions of the continued existence and governance of the UPD. This 2024

Agreement is therefore intended to revise and replace, in its entirety, the 2010 Agreement
establishing the UPD, including any amendments thereto.

H. Pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act, Utah Code Ann. § 11-13-101 et seq.
(the “Interlocal Cooperation Act”), the Members, all of which are “public agencies” for the

2

purposes of the Interlocal Cooperation Act, are authorized to enter into this 2024 Agreement, to
maintain an interlocal entity for the law enforcement and related services to the Members.

I. The Members desire to enter into this 2024 Agreement to affirm the continuation
of the UPD, refine the description of its membership, and revise the governance of and terms and
conditions of service by the UPD.

AGREEMENT

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and promises of the
Members and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are
hereby acknowledged, the Members agree as follows:

1. Interlocal Entity. Pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act, the Members agree
to the continued existence of the Unified Police Department of Greater Salt Lake as a separate
political subdivision and body politic and corporate of the state of Utah, as established pursuant
the 2010 Agreement, subject to the revised and restated terms and condition found in this 2024
Agreement.

2. Name. The legal entity will continue to be known as the Unified Police Department
of Greater Salt Lake.

3. Summary of Scope of Services to be Provided by UPD. The scope and type of
services provided to the Members by UPD will be determined through the regular adoption and
maintenance of a strategic plan and UPD policies, adherence to standards of emergency response
coverage, and the annual budget process as determined by the UPD’s Board of Directors.

4, Service Delivery.

a. Generally. The UPD will deliver its services through precincts located in its
Coverage Area and centralized shared services. The definitions of precinct and shared services
3

below are meant to be a general guideline subject to revisions by the UPD Board. Some
services listed as precinct or shared services may be moved from one category to another as
deemed appropriate by the UPD Board without the need to amend this Interlocal.

b. _Precinet/Basic Services: Personnel, supplies, and equipment assigned to specific
precincts or geographical areas as necessary to provide law enforcement services to the citizens
within the Coverage Area as determined by the Board to include, but not limited to, patrol
officers to respond to emergency and nonemergency calls for service, traffic enforcement,
community-oriented policing officers, and property crime detectives.

c. Shared Services: Services provided by the UPD, either directly or by contract, and
shared among the Members, subject to annual funding and Board approval, include but are not
limited the following:

1) Administrative Services. Personnel, supplies, and equipment necessary to
administratively support a law enforcement service agency and administer grants and
monies as determined by the Board to include, but not limited to, command staff,
human resources, financial services, legal services, insurance, outside counsel, expert
services and consultant fees, risk management, media services, records management,
production and GRAMA response.

2) Crime Prevention Services. Personnel, supplies, and equipment to support
a crime prevention unit as determined by the Board to include, but not limited to,
community-oriented policing support, assisting businesses within the Coverage Area
with crime prevention strategies and techniques, coordinating neighborhood watch
organizations, crime analysis, and public education through presentations to
community organizations.

4

3) Investigative Services and Multijurisdictional Task Forces, Personnel,
supplies, and equipment to support specialized investigative units as determined by the
Board to include, but not limited to, Violent Crimes Unit (robbery, homicide, adult sex
crimes), Special Victims Unit (domestic violence, juvenile sex crimes), and
participation in multi-jurisdictional task forces such as the Metro Gang Unit, Metro
Narcotics Unit, Mental Health Unit, CAR Team, Public Order Unit, forensics and crime
lab services and other task forces.

4)  Iraining Services. Personnel, supplies, and equipment to support a
training unit as determined by the Board to include, but not limited to, range and
weapon certification, annual certification training, recruit training, and supervisory
training.

5) Logistics Services. Fees for dispatch, including VECC or any successor
agency, personnel, supplies, and equipment to support a logistics unit as determined by
the Board to include, but not limited to, property and evidence storage and security,
communications, and fleet services.

6) Special Operation Services. Personnel, supplies, and equipment to support
a special operations division as determined by the Board to include, but not limited to,
special weapons and tactics team (S.W.A.T.), canine unit, and supervision of crossing
guards.

5. Member Fee.

a. Fees and costs for services attributable to the Member Fee will be based upon the
member’s precinct services and its proportionate share of shared services, based upon a shared
service formula adopted by the board. The member fee will also include any precinct specific

5

enhanced services. The budget will be transparently prepared and stated with reasonable
specificity in each annual budget adopted by the UPD Board. The Board will adopt policies
and/or resolutions that provide guidance for the development of the budget. Members will be

provided with reasonable notice prior to any proposed change in the level of services or
reallocation of UPD resources compared to the prior fiscal year. Each Member will be charged
an individual Member Fee.

b. The Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area (SLVLESA) and other
special districts created hereafter to fund law enforcement services may pay the Member Fees
for service area or district members. In the event that SLVLESA or any other special district
does not pay for any portion of a Member Fee for one of its members, each Member is
responsible for paying the balance of its Member Fee.

6. Fiscal Year and Budget Deadlines: The UPD shall operate on a fiscal year basis
beginning July | and ending June 30 of the following year. The UPD administration will propose
a preliminary budget increase maximum (PBIM) for the upcoming fiscal year and submit it to the
UPD Board no later than the regularly scheduled March meeting. The PBIM shall be an aggregate
of all UPD Shared Services budgetary expenditures, excluding any grant or other revenue-neutral,
outside-funded expenditures. Expenditures that are unique to a precinct and funded only by one
UPD Member may be excluded from the expenditures used to calculate the PBIM. All other
budgetary deadlines will follow Utah law to approve a budget for the upcoming fiscal year.

7. Department and Member Fund Balances: Department Fund Balances are separate
from Member Fund Balances and Department Fund Balances will be regulated by statute and UPD
budget policies. The Unified Police Department of Greater Salt Lake recognizes the existing
Member Fund Balances carried over from FY 2023-2024 for each Member Special Revenue Fund.

6

Member Fund Balance constitutes money budgeted, but not spent, in member funds during the
previous fiscal year. Member Fund Balances can be carried over and used for UPD purposes by
the Member or returned to the Member. The Member Fund Balance may be paid to a vested

departing member in good standing after withdrawal. The Board shall have the authority to
establish policies that recognize, define, limit, or eliminate these funds going forward but cannot
eliminate the existing funds in the Member Precinct Funds.

8. PBIM Override. The PBIM shall be a budgetary guide for the development of the
budget for the upcoming fiscal year. In the event the UPD Board considers the approval of the
annual budget or a subsequent budget amendment that exceeds the PBIM for the fiscal year, the
original budget or amendment shall only be approved upon a super majority 75% weighted vote.
The weighted vote shall be calculated using the formula approved in Paragraphs 10(b)(2)-(5) to
this 2024 Agreement.

9. Enhanced Services. A Member may individually propose an enhanced level of
precinct specific service provided by the UPD. The Board of Directors must approve the
enhancement, the cost, and start date of the new enhanced service. The additional fee for enhanced
services will accrue as of the date such services begin and be due and payable as part of that
Member’s Member Fee as provided for in this 2024 Agreement or, in the case of a Member that is
part of SLVLESA or other special district, a separate Enhanced Services Fee paid separately to
UPD by the Member receiving such services.

10. Governance and Administration of UPD. The UPD will be governed by a Board
of Directors comprised of representatives of the Members served by the UPD.

a. Board of Directors.
7

1) Each City, Town, and Metro Township to which the UPD provides services
will receive a position on the Board of Directors (the “Board”).

2) Each Board Member must be an elected official of the Member, either a
mayor or councilmember of the municipality’s governing body.

3) Board Members will serve indefinitely at the pleasure of the appointing
entity. Any appointment or removal of a Board Member will be accompanied by a letter or
resolution from the applicable Member notifying the UPD of such action.

4) Board meetings and all actions taken thereby will be in compliance with the
Utah Open Meetings Act (Utah Code §52-4-101, et. seq.) or successor applicable open
meetings law.

5) Matters related to the operation of the Board, such as meeting times, the
conduct of meetings, chair and vice-chair appointments, and other rules of order and
procedure will be established and adopted by the Board as policies and procedures.

6) Alternate Board Representative: Member may also designate in writing up
to two alternate representatives, ranked in order, who also must be a mayor, city council
member, chief executive officer, or senior level manager of the Member. The Member
representative or alternate representative will attend, participate, and vote on matters
coming before the Board of Trustees on behalf of the Member. Members may use an
alternate no more than two times a fiscal year.

1) For all matters related to the governance of the UPD, and once a quorum
has been established, each Board Member will be entitled to one vote on the Board.
8

Matters, unless otherwise specifically stated herein, will be passed by a vote of a majority
of the Board at a duly noticed meeting.

2) In regards to any proposed vote of the Board, to be taken pursuant to

subsection (b)(I) above, to adopt a fiscal year’s tentative or final budget, or to adopt any
budget amendment, any two Board Members representing separate Members may call for
a “weighted vote,” at which time, after an opportunity for discussion and deliberation by
the Board, a vote will be taken on such issue based upon a weighted voting system with
the weight of each Board Member’s vote being determined as follows:

3) A “Member Fee Percentage” will be calculated by computing the
percentage each Member is paying for the UPD’s services in comparison to the total of all
Member Fees

4) A “Population Percentage” will be calculated by comparing a Member’s
population to the total population of the communities served by the UPD, using the most
recently available census data, as updated by the Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute or other
agency subsequently designated by the State of Utah for population estimates.

5) Each Member’s Member Fee Percentage and its Population Percentage will
then be averaged (i.e., 50 percent allocation by Member Fee Percentage and 50% by
Population Percentage) to create the final “Weighted Voting Percentage” for that Member.

6) When weighted voting is requested under this Section, approval of the
budget or budget amendment will pass with an affirmative vote that meets or exceeds sixty
percent (60%) of the total weighted vote of all Board Members rather than a majority of all
the Board Members.

c. Executive Staff:
9

1) The Board will directly supervise, appoint, and be responsible for removing,
if necessary, the Chief of Police/CEO of the UPD. The Board will negotiate, approve, and
execute a written employment agreement with the Chief of Police/CEO setting forth the
terms and conditions of employment.

2) The Chief Legal Officer (CLO) of the UPD will be supervised by the Chief
of Police. The Chief Legal Officer has an independent duty to report to the Board. The
Board will approve the selection and compensation of the CLO. The Board may remove
the CLO either upon or without a recommendation from the Chief of Police.

3) The Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of the UPD will be supervised by the
Chief of Police. The CFO has an independent duty to report to the Board. The Board will
approve the selection and compensation of the CFO. The Board may remove the CFO
upon or without a recommendation from the Chief of Police.

4) The Chief of Human Resources may be the Merit System Coordinator, as
described in Exhibit A to this 2024 Agreement, will operate pursuant to policies established
by the Board and will report to the Board on matters related to the UPD’s Merit System.

5) The appointment, transfer, and removal of Precinct and Division Chiefs
will be governed by policies established by the Board.

6) All other employees will be supervised by the Chief of Police pursuant to
policies adopted by the UPD.

d. Policies. The Board will adopt a set of Board Policies that will broadly govern and
set the expectations for the operation of UPD. These Board Policies will inform and direct a
set of operational policies created and adopted by the Chief of Police/CEO in consultation with
the CLO and Command Staff.
10

e. Facilities. The UPD, under the direction of the Board, may construct, lease, or
purchase any necessary space for the purposes of providing services under this Agreement.
The UPD Board will equitably apportion the costs to the Members similar to the apportionment
of the Member Fee. If the benefit of such facility specifically inures to one or more Members
to the exclusion of others, the Board may apportion the cost of such facility to the benefiting
Member or Members to be paid as an addition to the Member Fee.

f. Conversion of Metro Townships. The conversion of metro townships to
municipalities will not change the relationship between the affected Members and UPD. Each
affected Member will be bound by this Agreement after its conversion and will maintain its
existing privileges and obligations as a Member. After its conversion, each affected Member
will automatically be recognized by its official municipal name without any requirement to
amend this Agreement.

11, 2010 Equipment. The 2010 Agreement or subsequent amendments provided that
members may convey specific description of equipment conveyed to the UPD by the Members
then forming the Department. The time elapsed since the 2010 Agreement or the 2012
Amendments, means that all or nearly all of the equipment conveyed has been cycled through,
merged with other equipment, or used to the end of its useful life. The Members therefore agree
to disclaim any rights to return of property found in the 2010 Agreement or 2012 Amendments
and agree that disposition of any equipment to members upon dissolution or withdrawal will be
accomplished according to the provisions of this 2024 Agreement.

12. Employees. The Members agree that no member will have any fiscal obligation or
liability for the payment of salary, wages, benefits, or other compensation of employees beyond
the assessment of the Member Fee.

11

13. Merit System. The Members agree that the UPD will operate with a Merit System
for sworn law enforcement officer employees and any policies duly adopted to be consistent
therewith and general merit principles. Civilian employees will also be part of a civil service

system to be approved by the UPD Board. All existing rank and seniority shall be continued in
the Merit System. The Merit System is established pursuant to Exhibit A.

14. Reports, Audits. and Performance Measures.

a. UPD will be subject to Utah Code § 11-13-501 et. seq., or its successor provision,
for accounting, reporting, budgeting, and auditing requirements, as modified and enhanced as
determined by the Board. The functions of budget officer, treasurer, or any other defined
function with respect to UPD will be determined by policies and procedures adopted by the
Board.

b. To ensure transparency, the UPD will prepare a financial report as part of the annual
budgeting process and receive an annual audit report. Such reports will be both posted online
and available upon request.

c. The UPD will also keep records and statistics related to the performance of its
services and will, from time to time, prepare reports summarizing performance. The Board or
any individual Member may make a request for the creation of such a report at any time and
UPD will use its best efforts to prepare such a report in a timely manner.

15. Indemnification. The UPD and the Members are governmental entities under the
"Utah Governmental Immunity Act" (UTAH CODE ANN. § 63G-7-101, ef seq.) (the "Immunity
Act"). Consistent with the terms of the Immunity Act, and as provided herein, it is mutually agreed
that each are responsible and liable for its own wrongful or negligent acts which are committed by
it or by its agents, officials, or employees. The UPD and the Members do not waive any procedural

12

or substantive defenses or benefits otherwise available under the Immunity Act nor does any
Member or the UPD waive any limits of liability currently provided by the Immunity Act or
comparable legislative enactment, including without limitation, the provisions of Section 63G-7-
604, regarding limitation of judgments. Any indemnity and insurance obligations incurred by
UPD or a Member under this agreement are expressly limited to the amounts identified in the Act.
Subject to the foregoing, the UPD shall defend, indemnify, save and hold harmless the Members
(including their respective elected and appointed officers and employees) from and against any
and all demands, liabilities, claims, damages, actions and/or proceedings, in law or equity
(including reasonable attorney's fees and costs of suit) relating to or arising from the law
enforcement services provided, or to be provided, by the UPD hereunder, except where such
demands, claims, actions or proceedings resulting from the negligence or misconduct of the
Members, or their respective elected or appointed officers or employees. Each Member shall
defend, indemnify, save and hold harmless the UPD or the Members (including its elected and
appointed officers and employees) from and against demands, claims, actions and/or proceedings,
in law or equity (including reasonable attorney's fees and costs of suit) relating to or arising from
negligent actions or failure to act of that Member's elected and appointed officers or employees;
the UPD's enforcement of any ordinances of that Member that is alleged to be unconstitutional; or
improper disclosure by that Member of private, controlled, or protected information under the
provisions of GRAMA. The UPD is considered a governmental entity for purposes of the Act,
including the defense and indemnification of employees, volunteers, and Members of the Board.

16. Term. This 2024 Agreement will be effective as of the date listed at the beginning
of this Agreement or when it is fully approved and executed by the Members, whichever is later.
Unless terminated as provided for herein, it will be in effect for a term of fifty years.

13

17. | Admission of New Members. The Members anticipate that during the term of this
Agreement that additional governmental entities may wish to join the UPD and be bound to the
terms and conditions of this Agreement. The process and requirements for becoming an additional
Party to this Agreement and member of the UPD will apply equally to the addition of a new
Member Entity to the UPD entity that approaches the UPD Board or a UPD Member about joining
the UPD. Admission of an additional Member will be pursuant to the following process and
conditions:

a. The UPD Chief will advise the Board Chair of any expressed interest in joining the
UPD of which the UPD Chief becomes aware, and the Board Chair will advise the UPD Chief
of any expressed interest in joining the UPD of which the Board Chair becomes aware. The
UPD Chief and Board Chair will then authorize UPD representative to hold initial, non-public
discussions with any municipality or other entity expressing interest in joining the UPD to
gauge feasibility or level of interest in joining. However, neither the UPD Chief nor the Board
Chair is authorized to discuss the potential of an entity joining the UPD in a public setting
without prior notice to the Board. Furthermore, neither the UPD Chief nor the Board Chair
may make any agreements with the potential new member concerning joining the UPD without
complying with the requirements of this Paragraph 18.

b. Under the direction of the Board, UPD staff will conduct a feasibility study to
evaluate the potential addition of the new member. In conducting the feasibility study under
this section, the study should include the following (these guidelines are subject to revision by
the Board in subsequent Board Policy without the need to amend this Agreement):

1) Population and population density within the proposed municipality;
14

2) Current and five-year projections of demographics and economic base in
the proposed municipality, including household size and income, commercial and
industrial development, and public facilities;

3) Projected growth in the proposed municipality during the next five years;

4) The present and five-year projections of the cost, including overhead, of
providing the Baseline Services in the proposed municipality as is provided by the UPD in
similar municipalities;

5) The number, classification, and cost of wages, salaries, and benefits of line
and staff employees that the proposed municipality desires UPD to absorb as part of joining
the UPD assuming that:

1. The UPD will agree to accept all police personnel assigned to
existing department;
2. The UPD will have the option to consider employment of the Chief,

Officers and other staff;

3. Employees transferred to the UPD will transfer with:

a. Wages normalized to the UPD pay structure except that if an
employee’s existing wage is higher, the employee wage will be frozen until
the wage is normalized with the UPD wage schedule;

b. Seniority equal to years of full-time career experience with
the joining municipality on the last day of employment with the joining
municipality;

15

c. Vacation and sick leave balances on the last day of
employment with a calculation of the total liability being paid for by the
joining municipality, consistent with UPD Policy;

6) The location, condition, and value of the physical assets necessary to
provide services in the joining municipality that would be transferred to the UPD by the
municipality including in the study the feasibility of:

1. The joining municipality retaining ownership of the precincts and
being responsible for capital maintenance.

2. Transferring necessary assets, such as vehicles, equipment, PPE,
precinct supplies, etc. to the UPD to provide the services to the joining
municipality.

7) An assessment of the debts, liabilities, and obligations of the joining
municipality that may be necessary for the UPD to acquire in order to provide the services
to the joining municipality.

8) The fiscal impact that the joining municipality's addition has on other
Members by the UPD, including any Member Fee changes that may become necessary to
maintain existing levels of service for current Members.

9) Any other factor that UPD staff consider relevant to the question of
admitting a new municipality to the UPD.

c. A joining municipality, depending upon the circumstances and the equities
involved in it joining the UPD, may be subject to a separate agreement that may contain a
minimum period of membership that will be negotiated based on the review of the

16

circumstances, including the assets and liabilities the municipality will be transferring to the
UPD.

d. Approval of a new municipality as a new member of the UPD would require a two-
thirds affirmative vote of the UPD’s Board, the new member agreeing to have its legislative
council approve and to sign as a Member to this 2024 Agreement, and the Members’ respective
legislative councils approving the amendment to this 2024 Agreement admitting the new
member.

18. Withdrawal.

a. Cooperation. If a Member wishes to withdraw from the UPD and the terms and
conditions of this 2024 Agreement, the Members agree to work cooperatively in such a manner
as to minimize the harm to any Member and the public safety of the citizens of all Members.
The UPD will respect the desire and decision of the withdrawing Member, and the withdrawing
Member will respect the need for and allow the necessary planning to ensure a withdrawal will
result in the minimum impact possible on the UPD and remaining Members.

b. Requirements.

1) Due to the complexities of the operation of the UPD and the significant
impact a withdrawal may have on the other Members, a Member must provide twelve
months’ advance notice as to the date it wishes to withdraw from the UPD. The twelve
months will run from the date the Chief of Police and CLO receive the notice from the
withdrawing Member. The Members acknowledge that the annual Member Fees paid to
the UPD do not constitute the establishment of a debt for any Member and will be paid as
services are provided. Furthermore, the Members acknowledge that the inclusion of a
twelve months’ withdrawal period renders this Agreement one of reasonable duration.

17

2) In order to be admitted, a prospective Member must agree to a minimum

term of admission. Any Member departing with less than the minimum term established

| by the Board at the time of admission will not be entitled to any assets it may have been
entitled to pursuant to Paragraph 18(c).

3) The twelve-month notice requirement for withdrawal may be shortened
upon mutual agreement between the withdrawing Member and the Department, if approved
by the UPD Board.

4) Upon providing notice of its intent to withdraw, the withdrawing Member’s
Board Member must, if applicable, relinquish his or her position as Board Chair/Vice-Chair
and any committee Chair. The Board Member will also be automatically recused from
matters directly affecting the withdrawal process. Such recusal will only extend to voting
on matters related to the withdrawal process and the withdrawing Member’s Board
Member will have the right to participate in Board discussions and debates related to such
issues. However, a withdrawing Member’s Board Member may be excluded from any
closed sessions, properly held pursuant to the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act, to
discuss matters related to the withdrawal of that Member. In the event a withdrawing
Member revokes its intent to withdraw, its Board and Committee positions will be
reinstated.

5) The Members and UPD agree that if a Member withdraws and subsequently
forms or participates in a new police department with other Members, the UPD and the
withdrawing Member will, in good faith, negotiate or join existing relevant mutual and
automatic aid agreements covering both the UPD and the withdrawing Member.

18

6) Upon receiving a notice of intent to withdrawal, the Members will begin the
withdrawal process by creating a withdrawal plan that will comply with the general
principles provided for in this Section 18.

c. Disposition of Precincts or Equipment.

1) Precinct Lease. The Department will cease using the precinct owned by the
withdrawing Member upon the effective date of the Member’s withdrawal. The
withdrawing Member, or other precinct or building owner, will receive the precinct in an
as-is condition as of the effective date of the withdrawal. In the event the withdrawing
Member is not the owner of the precinct at the time of withdrawal, and it wishes to use the
precinct building after withdrawal, the withdrawing Member will be responsible for
coordinating such use with the building’s owner. The UPD will use reasonable efforts to
maintain the precinct in its condition from the date of the notice to the date of withdrawal
but will not be responsible for any normal wear and tear during the withdrawal period, nor
for any deterioration or destruction of the precinct building outside of its control.

2) Precinct Inventory. The UPD and the withdrawing Member will meet and
confer to create a property disposition plan to account for supplies and equipment located
in the precinct serving the withdrawing Member that is to be vacated by the UPD. This
plan will contain an inventory of any items for which the withdrawing Member can
specifically prove ownership. The withdrawing Member will be entitled to retain such
inventoried items upon withdrawal.

19

3) Vehicles and Equipment. In the event the withdrawing Member has
transferred vehicles or equipment to the UPD, and such vehicles or equipment has not been
cycled through to the end of its usable life or inseparably incorporated in the UPD’s
inventory, those assets which are traceable and not significantly modified by the UPD post
transfer, will be returned to the withdrawing Member. All department vehicles and
equipment assigned to the precinct shall be provided to the departing Member. No training
of any employee shall be subject to reimbursement upon departure. UPD or other Service
Area Member Precinct Fund Balances, assets assigned to other member precincts, and all
shared assets including vehicles, major assets and equipment purchased through the shared
formula is owned by the UPD and the respective Members and is not subject to any claim
by the departing member for any item or equivalent value.

4) Debt Obligation. The withdrawing Member will not be obligated to
continue its portion of the payment for any UPD debt related to the acquisition of
equipment, however, it will not have any property right to any such vehicles and equipment
in the precinct(s) serving the withdrawing Member except as provided for above. Except
as required to meet statutory and audit requirements for the UPD and meet any outstanding
financial obligation incurred by the Member to the UPD, a departing Member is entitled to
take its Precinct Fund Balance upon departure. Any Precinct Fund Balance owed to a
departing Member will be paid by the UPD after the next fiscal year audit.

d. Personnel. In the event the withdrawing Member plans upon withdrawal to start its
own department or expand a previously existing department with others, the withdrawing
Member agrees to provide (or to encourage, in good faith, the existing department it is joining)

20

an employee selection process exclusively for interested, existing UPD personnel prior to
engaging in an open and public recruitment for staffing.

1) This process does not include recruitment for chief or other executive level
positions.

2) The withdrawing Member is not obligated to hire those who apply during
this process, merely to give existing UPD personnel the first opportunity to fill the
prospective new positions.

3) The withdrawing Member agrees that UPD employees that are hired by the
withdrawing Member will have the option to either: 1) receive a payout of their UPD
vacation balance directly from the UPD on the employee’s date of separation pursuant to
UPD policy; or 2) transfer their vacation hours to their new position with the withdrawing
Member. In the event of a transfer and acceptance of vacation hours, the UPD will pay to
the withdrawing Member the value of the vacation hours at the employee’s wage rate as of
the employee’s last day with the UPD.

4) Sick leave balances of employees hired by the withdrawing Member will
not be transferred and will be handled pursuant to internal UPD’s policy and procedure.

5) Retirements contributions by the UPD for the any employee leaving the
UPD and starting work with a withdrawing Member will cease upon the employee’s last
day with UPD.

6) UPD agrees to allow employees leaving the UPD and moving to the
withdrawing Member to take their existing, issued personal protective equipment with
them to their new employment with the withdrawing Member. The ownership of the PPE
will be transferred to the withdrawing Member at no cost.

21

19. Coverage Area. The coverage area of the UPD may increase or otherwise be
affected by annexations, disconnections, consolidations, boundary adjustments and/or dissolutions
related to the individual Members. The Members agree to notify the UPD, in advance, of any such
changes to the coverage area. If such a change is significant enough to materially affect the
response time or other operational issues, the Members agree that a change to the Member Fee
may be warranted and that such change may be brought to the Board for approval outside of the
annual budgetary process.

20. Remittance. Each Member will prospectively remit the payments required to UPD
by this 2024 Agreement, such as the Member Fee established each annual budget year or any other
required payments, on a quarterly basis and on the first day of each calendar quarter. Upon
agreement between UPD and a Member, a Member may also pay prospective amounts due at
shorter intervals, such as monthly, so long as the arrangement is agreed upon in advance and in
writing.

21. Breach or Failure to Pay.

a. A failure to timely pay the Member Fee, or other payment due to UPD, will be
considered an immediate and material breach of this 2024 Agreement. Upon such failure to
pay, the UPD will notify the breaching Member of the alleged breach and provide thirty days
for the breaching Member to remedy the alleged breach. UPD will continue to provide the
services provided for in this 2024 Agreement in light of the public safety impacts a cessation
of services would cause, however, failure to remedy the alleged breach after 30 days will result
in the UPD being allowed to declare a default of this 2024 Agreement. Upon declaration of
default, UPD may seek all remedies available at law or equity (including the judicial remedy
of injunctive relief to require the continued payment for services being provided), and the

22

declaration of default will be deemed to constitute an involuntary Notice of Withdrawal to
begin the process provided for in Paragraph 18 for the breaching Member. The UPD may
recover all legal costs, including reasonable attorney fees, it incurred in seeking a remedy under
this subsection. Additionally, notwithstanding any language in this Agreement, the breaching
Member will also forfeit its Precinct Fund Balance, vehicles, and equipment to the UPD as
liquidated damages for the additional costs the other Members will incur in providing services
to the breaching Member.

b. Upon a material breach of this 2024 Agreement by a Member, such as failure to
pay its fee, the non-breaching Member or Members will notify the breaching Member of the
alleged breach and provide 30 days to remedy the alleged breach. If the breaching Member
fails to remedy the alleged breach, the non-breaching Member or Members may declare a
Default of 2024 Agreement and seek appropriate remedies in law or equity. In the event of a
material breach requiring pursuit of legal remedies, the breaching Member will pay the
prevailing Member’s costs and reasonable attorney fees.

22. Termination. Due to the nature of the services being provided and the structure of
the UPD, this 2024 Agreement cannot be terminated in its entirety except by the expiration of its
term or the mutual agreement of all Members that the UPD should be dissolved as an interlocal
entity. The Agreement may be terminated as to an individual Member pursuant to the withdrawal
process provided for Paragraph 18. Upon withdrawal this 2024 Agreement will be terminated with
respect to the withdrawing Member, but any remaining payment obligations remaining after
withdrawal and all the provision of Paragraph 15 (Indemnification) will survive the termination
with respect to said Member.

23

23. Dissolution. The UPD may be dissolved, and operations terminated upon the
unanimous written consent of all Members to this 2024 Agreement at the time of dissolution. Upon
dissolution, all leases will terminate, all assets actually contributed by a Member still identifiable
as separate property with a right of return will be returned to such Member, and any remaining
assets (whether real property or personal property) of the UPD will be distributed based on a
fraction, the numerator of which is the aggregate amount of Member Fees paid by a Member and
the denominator of which is the aggregate amount of Member Fees paid by all of the Members to
the UPD for services. Any unpaid liabilities of the UPD will be paid by the Members based on the
same fraction. Such liability will be a joint liability.

24. Amendment. This Agreement may not be amended except by written instrument
signed by all Members. Amendments will be approved as follows:

a. Amendments may be proposed to the Board by any Member or staff of the UPD.

b. The Board shall consider the proposed amendment and may only approve the
advancement of the proposed amendment for review by the Members by a vote of at least two-
thirds of the Board present at a duly noticed meeting.

c. Upon advancement, each Member must present the proposed amendment to their
appropriate legislative bodies for review and consideration.

d. Each Member will have sixty days to review the proposed amendment with its
executive officers and legislative body and either provide notice of acceptance of the proposed
amendment or suggest alternatives to be considered by the Board.

e. Subsequent to this legislative review, the Board may approve a final amendment
only by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Board at a duly noticed meeting. Such a vote must

24

be a vote to approve representing at least two-thirds of the total Board seats, not just the votes
of those present at the particular meeting.

f. Upon approval by the Board pursuant to this Paragraph, all Members must agree to
the final Amendment via a written document amending this 2024 Agreement within thirty
days. Failure to agree to the approved Amendment will constitute an involuntary Notice to
Withdraw pursuant to Section 18.

25. Notices. All notices, requests, demands, and other communications hereunder will
be in writing and given to any Member by delivering a copy, via U.S. Mail, to the mayor (or if
applicable to the form of government, the council chair or city manager) of any municipal, sent to
that Member’s official governmental office address, with a copy also sent to the same official
office and addressed to “City Attorney” or “Chief Counsel.” For the UPD, notices should be sent
to the following:

If to UPD: Unified Police Department of Greater Salt Lake

Office of the Chief
3365 South 900 West
Salt Lake City, UT 84119
With a copy to: Unified Police Department of Greater Salt Lake
Chief Legal Officer
3365 South 900 West
Salt Lake City, UT 84119

26. Interlocal Cooperation Act. The Members enter into this 2024 Agreement pursuant
to the Interlocal Cooperation Act. For the purpose of satisfying specific requirements of the
Interlocal Cooperation Act, the Members agree as follows:

a. This Agreement maintains and affirms the creation of the separate interlocal entity
known as UPD that will operate using its own budget, may acquire real or personal property
and may take any other act authorized by Utah law.

25

b. The UPD will be governed by its Board and according to the provisions of this 2024
Agreement.

c. Because this 2024 Agreement cannot take effect until it has met the requirements
of the Interlocal Cooperation Act, each Member agrees by its signature that the agreement has
been presented and approved by that Member’s legislative body by a resolution or ordinance
that is in compliance with Utah Code § 11-13-202.5(2) and been submitted and approved by
the attorney authorized to represent the Member in compliance with Utah Code § 11-13-
202.5(3). Furthermore, upon approval and execution by the Members, each Member agrees to
keep a copy of this 2024 Agreement on file with the Member’s keeper of records.

27. Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the
Members regarding those subjects that are the subject matter of this Agreement, and this
Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings between the Members pertaining
thereto, except where otherwise specifically stated herein. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any
prior agreements between any Members, such as leases, land-use agreements, easements, deeds,
or other matters separate and distinct from the creation and operation of the UPD as an interlocal
entity as provided for in this Agreement remain in full force and effect and subject to their own
respective terms and conditions.

28. Governing Law & Venue. The provisions of this Agreement will be governed by
and be construed in accordance with the laws of the state of Utah. Disputes and other issues
between the Members arising out of or related to this 2024 Agreement will be decided by litigation
in the Third Judicial District Court of Salt Lake County, Utah.

29. Disputes. In the event of disputes and in the absence of any agreement to the
contrary, UPD agrees to continue to provide services during any litigation and the adverse Member

26

will continue to make payments to UPD in accordance with the terms of this 2024 Agreement to
ensure the continued protection of public safety within the Member’s communities. This provision
may be enforced by injunctive relief by the courts if necessary.

30. | Waiver. No failure by a Member to insist upon strict performance of any covenant,
duty, agreement, or condition of this Agreement, or to exercise any right or remedy consequent
upon a breach thereof, will constitute a waiver of any such breach or of any other covenant,
agreement, term, or condition of this Agreement. A Member may, by notice delivered in the
manner provided in this Agreement, but will be under no obligation to, waive any of its rights or
any condition to its obligations hereunder, or any duty, obligation, or covenant of the other
Members No waiver will affect or alter the remainder of this Agreement, but each and every other
covenant, agreement, term, and condition hereof will continue in full force and effect with respect
to any other then existing or subsequently occurring breach.

31. Nonfunding. The Members acknowledge that funds are not presently available for
performance of this Agreement beyond the close of their respective fiscal years. Each Member's
obligation for performance of this Agreement beyond that date is contingent upon funds being
appropriated for payments due under this Agreement. If no funds or insufficient funds are budgeted
and appropriated in any fiscal year, or if there is a reduction in appropriations of the Member
resulting in insufficient funds for payments due or about to become due under this Agreement,
then this Agreement shall create no obligation as to such fiscal year, but instead shall terminate
and become null and void for that Member on the first day of the fiscal year for which funds were
not budgeted and appropriated, or, in the event of a reduction in appropriations, on the last day
before the reduction becomes effective (except as to those portions of payments herein then agreed

27

upon for which funds are appropriated and budgeted). However, any member exiting the UPD
under non-funding shall not be entitled to any assets under the departure clause.

32. Severability. In the event that any condition, covenant, or other provision hereof is
held to be invalid, void, or unenforceable, the same will be deemed severable from the remainder
of this Agreement and will in no way affect any other covenant, condition, or other provision
herein contained. If such condition, covenant, or other provision will be deemed invalid due to its
scope or breadth, such provision will be deemed valid to the extent of the scope or breadth
permitted by law.

33. | Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which will
be deemed an original and all of which together will constitute one and the same instrument.
Delivery of an executed signature page by facsimile or e-mail transmission shall be effective as
delivery of a manually signed counterpart of this Agreement.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Members have executed and caused this Agreement to be
duly executed effective as provided in Section 16.

[insert signature pages]
28

UNIFIED POLICE DEPARTMENT OF GREATER SALT LAKE
UNIFIED POLICE DEPARTMENT
OF GREATER SALT LAKE
a) a7
By: £. Zwni/- Hie aareors .
ar

J oar a
Chief of Police

Approved as to Legal Form: Attest:

(
A fi! A = y
Harry Soi Harmony McQueen
ief Legal Counsel UPD Clerk
29

CITY OF HOLLADAY
CITY OF HOLLADAY
By
Print:
Its:
Approved as to Legal Form: Attest:
DATED:
30

| MIDVALE CITY

MIDVALE CITY
By
Print:
Its:

Approved as to Legal Form: Attest:

DATED:

31

MILLCREEK
MILLCREEK
By
Print:
Its:
Approved as to Legal Form: Attest:
DATED:
32

TOWN OF BRIGHTON
TOWN OF BRIGHTON
By
Print:
Its:
Approved as to Legal Form: Attest:
DATED:
33

COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
By
Print:
Its:
Approved as to Legal Form: Attest:
DATED: March 18, 2024
34

EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP

EMIGRATION CANYON METRO
TOWNSHIP
By
Print:
Its:

Approved as to Legal Form: Attest:

DATED:

35

KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP
By:
Print:
Its! ~AAea : ; 4
Approved as to Legal Form: Attest:
paTep: “J- 4. dod
36

MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
By:
Print:
Its:
Approved as to Legal Form: Attest:
DATED:
37
