RESOLUTION NO._\% ~\\-3
A RESOLUTION AMENDING THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP’S GENERAL PLAN TO
INCLUDE A MODERATE-INCOME HOUSING ELEMENT
WHEREAS, the Kearns Metro Township (“Kearns”) incorporated as a metro township
in January 2017; and
WHEREAS, Kearns’ existing general plan, which was last updated in 2012, was created
prior to Kearns’ incorporation; and
WHEREAS, the Kearns Metro Township Council (“Council”) will be initiating an update
to the General Plan in December of 2019; and
WHEREAS, during the 2019 General Session, the Utah Legislature passed S.B. 34, which
requires Kearns to amend its general plan to include a moderate-income housing element
(“Element”) by December 1, 2019; and
WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-404(5)(c) requires the Council adopt an Element
that provides a realistic opportunity to meet the need for additional moderate-income housing
within the next five years in Kearns; and
WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-103(38) defines “moderate-income housing” as
housing occupied or reserved for occupancy by households with a gross household income equal
to or less than 80 percent of the median gross income for households of the same size in the county
in which the municipality is located; and
WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-103(47) further states that the Element must
include:
(a) an estimate of the existing supply of moderate-income housing located within the
municipality;
(b) an estimate of the need for moderate-income housing in the municipality for the next
five years;
(c) asurvey of total residential land use;
(d) an evaluation of how existing land uses and zones affect opportunities for moderate-
income housing; and
(e) a description of the municipality’s program to encourage an adequate supply of
moderate-income housing; and
WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-403(2)(b)(iii) specifies that the Element must
include a recommendation to implement three or more strategies out of a “menu” of 23 statutory
options that are intended to provide for additional moderate-income housing opportunities; and
RESOLUTION NO. /9-WW-2 7 Page 1 of 3

WHEREAS, the Council initiated the creation of the Element to comply with S.B. 34 as a
component of its larger update to the general plan; and

WHEREAS, the Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission (“Planning
Commission’) held a public hearing to take public comment on a draft Element on October 14,
2019 pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §10-9a-404; and

WHEREAS, after receiving and carefully reviewing the input provided by the public at
the public hearing on the draft Element, the Planning Commission recommended that the Council
adopt an Element that selected the following goals from the menu of 23 options found in Utah
Code Ann. § 10-9a-403(2)(b)(iii):

(a) Preserve current moderate-income housing (item L);
(b) Create more Moderate-income Housing options (items E, F, & G); and
(c) Support measures and efforts that contribute to neighborhood stabilization (items B & C).

WHEREAS, the Council held a duly noticed public hearing regarding the proposed
Element on the 19" day of November 2019, pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §10-9a-204; and

WHEREAS, the Council has received and carefully reviewed the final recommendation
from the Planning Commission regarding the proposed amendment, the minutes from the Planning
Commission meetings, the comments provided at both public hearings, and considered all public
input regarding the Element; and

WHEREAS, the Council finds the Element contains all mandated elements of the Utah
State Code and meets Kearns’ current and future moderate-income housing needs; and

WHEREAS, the Council finds that amending the Kearns General Plan to include the
Element is in the best interest of the health, safety, and welfare of Kearns and its residents.
NOW, THEREFORE: THE LEGISLATIVE BODY OF THE KEARNS METRO
TOWNSHIP RESOLVES AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1: the Council hereby amends its general plan to include the attached Element in
compliance with Utah Code Ann. §§ 10-9a-103(38), 10-9a-103(47), 10-9a-404(5)(c), 10-9a-
403(2)(b)(ii), 10-9a-408, 10-9a-401(3)(b)(iii), and all other applicable laws and regulations.

Section 2: A copy of the amended general plan with the Element is hereby ordered to be
filed with and retained by the Kearns Metro Township Clerk, Recorder, and Auditor.

Section 3: An electronic copy of the Element is hereby ordered to be filed with both the
Wasatch Front Region Association of Governments and the Housing and Community
Development Division of the Utah Department of Workforce Services.

Section 4: Kearns staff and the Planning Commission are instructed to incorporate the
Element within the larger contemplated update to the Kearns general plan.

RESOLUTION NO. 19 ~-}i- 2 Page 2 of 3

Section 5: If any of the sections, sentences, clauses or provisions of this general plan shall
for any reason be adjudged inapplicable or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such shall
not affect or invalidate the remaining portion contained herein.

Section 6: This resolution shall become effective fifteen (15) days after it is passed and
upon promulgation through the Kearns website or publication in a newspaper having general
circulation in Kearns.

Section 7: The Council will take the following actions with respect to the Element in
compliance with Utah Code Ann. §10-9a-408:

(a) Conduct an annual review of the implementation of Element, prepare a report (the

“Annual Report”) on the findings of the review, and post the Annual Report to
Kearns’ website;
(b) Ensure that the Annual Report complies with Utah Code Ann. §10-9a-408(2); and
(c) Send the Annual Report to the Department of Workforce Services, the association of
governments in which Kearns is located, and any applicable metropolitan planning
organizations.
Sx argo
elly\Bus ayor aN
ATTEST:
LO 2 en
Sherrie Swensen
Salt Lake County Clerk
Kearns Metro Township Recorder
VOTING
Council Member Brown voting a
Council Member Bush voting \ : : SX
Council Member Peterson voting { “s
Council Member Schaeffer voting e Ss
Council Member Snow voting \ = ,
RESOLUTION NO. __{ 9 = {/ = ow Page 3 of 3
