KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP, UTAH
, zy ;
RESOLUTION NO. | ¥7 0470 & pul A 2018
A RESOLUTION ADOPTING A POLICY REGARDING THE REQUEST FOR
CONTRIBUTIONS AND WAIVERS FROM THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP
RECITALS
WHEREAS, the Council of the Kearns Metro Township desires to adopt policies that
establish uniform standards and guidelines for the solicitation and distribution of contributions to
nonprofit groups serving Kearns Township
NOW THEREFORE be it resolved by the Council of the Kearns Metro Township that the
Attached Exhibit A is hereby adopted as the policy governing process for requesting
Contributions and Waivers until otherwise amended or repealed.
APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Kearns Metro Township, Salt Lake County, Utah,
this Q_ day of CP uh, 2018.
Kearns Metro Township Council
By:
ly h, Cha’
ATTEST:
2 —_— . a eo
Ms ¢ : z : 2 ny # .
Sherrie Swensen, County Clerk
Voting:
Council Member Bush . . X
Council Member Schaeffer §
Council Member Snow
Council Member Petersen
Council Member Brown \
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Kearns Metro Township Attorney

2.8 | Mayor/Chair- Council-elected chair of Kearns Township

2.9 Public Purpose — Kearns Township government's authority or responsibility to
promote the safety, health, prosperity, moral well-being, peace, order,
comfort, or convenience of Kearns Township inhabitants.

2.10 Waiver - Any dismissal of required fees for the use of Kearns Township
facilities, property, buildings, equipment, or personnel services.

3.0 General Guidelines

3.1. All contributions made by Kearns Township must be made to help advance a
bona fide public purpose.

3.2 Contributions may be made by the Council appropriating funds through either
the budget or a separate appropriation in a previously approved budget
category. Contribution requests may also be directed to the Mayor/Chair for
review and recommendation to the Council. All requests must be made on the
official application form noted above in 2.1.

3.2.1 Any request which involves a waiver of fees relating to a special
event shall be submitted to the Mayor/Chair for processing.

3.3. Nocontributions or waivers will be made to any organization which
stands to gain commercially as a whole or individually.

3.4 Allrequestors must be a nonprofit organization.

3.5 All organizations receiving contributions will be required to submit a
"Disbursement of Funds Report" by September 1“ of receipt of said
contribution and upon completion of project, if not completed within six
months, briefly outlining what was accomplished with the funds. These reports
are to be submitted to the Council and Mayor and any failure to submit the
report on a timely basis will subject the organization to potential legal action
for recovery of the contributed amounts.

3.6 All contributions must be approved by the Council

4.0 Requests for Contributions/Waivers

4.1 Review Process

4.1.1 Every requested contribution under this policy must reflect a valid
Kearns Township public purpose, as set out in paragraph 3.1 and as
defined in Paragraph 2.9 above. If a requested contribution does not
meet a valid

Kearns Township public purpose, it must be rejected.

4.1.2 Ifa requested contribution meets a public purpose, in order for it to be
made in the form of an uncompensated contribution or donation, the
Kearns Township must receive fair and adequate consideration in
exchange. Any question about whether the proposed
contribution provides consideration to Kearns Township shall be
resolved by the Council, in accordance with Utah Code Ann. Sec.
10-8-2.

4.2 Applications must be submitted on the proper forms available through the Council.

4,3 The Mayor/Chair may establish a separate review committee or process for
considering contribution requests made to the Mayor/Chair.

4.3.1 Before a contribution or waiver may be considered, the division, department,
or office involved in the contribution must have in place a policy explaining
the procedures and purposes for contributions and waivers. That policy
must be reviewed and approved by the Council. Amounts anticipated for
waivers or contributions must be expressly set out in the annual division,
department, or office budget request.

4.3.2 Any request which falls under the criteria outlined in departmental or
divisional policies must be processed as such according to those policies, but
must meet the minimum legal requirements of this policy and procedure and
of state law.

4.3.3 Requests for contributions approved by the Mayor shall be forwarded to
the Council for approval in accordance with state law.

4.4 For any organization which the Council determines to be worthy of on-going
annual donations to be included in Kearns Township annual budgeting process, the
initial request for a donation shall be submitted by the organization in accordance with
the terms of this policy and procedure. For each year thereafter when the Council
determines to include that organization’s request in the Kearns Township budget, the
requesting organization shall file an annual recertification notice which sets out that
the nature of the organization and that the services contemplated have not changed
from the original request of that organization before any funds may be disbursed.

5.0 Requests for Use or Transfer of Surplus Property

5.1 All requests for the use or transfer of surplus property will be handled pursuant to State

law.
6.0 Further legal review
When a matter has been reviewed by either the Council or Mayor/Chair and approved by the

Council, in accordance with the provisions of this policy and state law and has been approved as
such by the Metro’s Legal Council, further legal approval is not required unless a separate
contract is prepared.

7.0 Authorization for Payment
Payment of authorized contributions will be made by the Council upon receipt of either budget
documents establishing that the contribution has been authorized, as to both amount and recipient,
in the duly adopted budget or any amendment thereof or evidence that the Council has separately
approved the contribution. As appropriate, approval will be accompanied by an agreement
documenting the contribution amount and the uses for which it is authorized.

. FORM A
mar we v = st
| WJ a
METRO TOWNSHIP Application for Contribution
oye (Including Fee Waivers)
Name of Organization:
Se ee
Address:
SSaENIneeneeee
Contact Person: Phone:
Fax: Fiscal year runs from: to .
Brief History of Organization: (Who started it? How long has it been organized? etc.)
eee
meee
arene
eee
Type of Request: Money Equipment Personnel Facilities Fee Waiver

Have you previously received money from Salt Lake County? Yes No

If yes, when and how much? (previous three years)

If you are requesting money, please answer the following questions:

Amount of Request: $
Percent of Agency Budget: %

Purpose of money requested and target population (may include a draft program):
eee
a
anne
ee a ee
Eee

oe FORM A (Cont.)
Please attach:
L. Current List of Council Members and/or Board of Directors
2. Organization Chart
3. Copy certification of nonprofit status. Ifnot a nonprofit community service-based

organization, please state the status of the organization.
4. Copy of an independent audit. If you do not have one, please enclose a copy of current
financial statements.
5. Draft Program
You will be expected to report to the Kearns Metro Township Council on how the money was
used and the success of the project.
The undersigned hereby acknowledges that he or she has authority to bind the organization listed in the
grant and will abide by the terms of this grant of Kearns Township funds as that grant is defined in this
Form A. The grantee accepts the following terms and conditions as a condition of receiving and using
Kearns Township funds or the waiver of fees: Kearns Township funds will be used solely for the purposes
approved by the Mayor as applied for or amended in this grant. Any expenditure for purposes other than
those approved will require a return of the entire grant amount and may disqualify the grantee from
receiving any additional Kearns Township funds. It is further understood that no grant funds will be made
available to any Kearns Township officer of employee or in violation of the requirements of the Public
Employees Ethics Act (67-16-1 et seq.). No grant funds will be used for political or campaign purposes.
Asa further condition of the grant, all Kearns Township funds may be subject to an audit as required by the
Kearns Metro Township. The grantee is required to complete the Disbursement of Funds Report,
Form B.
Dated this day of. ws
Grantee/Recipient

FORM B
KEARNS | RECIPIENT ORGANIZATION'S
Oe DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS REPORT
This report is to be filed with the Council by September I" after receipt of the money. If Future year
contributions are desired, the report must be filed with the Council by September 1° F of each year.
Name of Organization:
eee
Address:
eee
See
Contact Person: Phone:
Fax: Email Address:
Amount: $
Date Received:
Please describe how the money was spent; include who was helped, what other contributions were made to
your program, etc.:
