RESOLTUION No, @ \A-\0- 6 | oupber \y 2019
A RESOLUTION OF THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL ADOPTING
RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE FOR THE COUNCIL
RECITALS

WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-606 requires a municipal legislative body to adopt rules of
order and procedure to govern the body’s public meetings;

WHEREAS, the Kearns Metro Township Council (the “Council’’) desires to adopt rules of order
and procedure to company with the requirements of Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-606(2).

WHEREAS, the Council has determined that the rules of order and procedure attached to this
Resolution shall serve the best interests of the Kearns Metro Township and the general public.

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED by the Kearns Metro Township Council that
effective immediately:

1. The rules of order and procedures attached to this Resolution are approved; and

2. The Council shall make these rules of order and procedure available to the general public
at each of its public meetings and shall post them on the Kearns Metro Township website pursuant to
Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-606(2)(a)(iii).

APPROVED and ADOPTED this \y EAA day of 2019.

KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
By: ~ YI
(Kelly Bus yor :
ATTEST
>t | oS

Sherrie Swensen, Clerk
Voting:

Council Member Bush voting Ose

Council Member Brown voting

Council Member Peterson voting

Council Member Schaeffer voting fe

Council Member Snow voting ORe-

1

PROCEDURE AND ORDER
Adopted » 2019
Pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3-606, the Kearns Metro Township Council (“Council”)
hereby adopts the following rules of order and procedure to govern the meetings of the Council.
RULE NO. 1 - COMPLIANCE WITH UTAH CODE
PURPOSE. The purpose of this rule is to ensure that the Metro Township complies with those
aspects of Utah law that govern its meetings.
PROCEDURE. The Metro Township shall comply with the all required procedures contained in
Utah Code including but not limited to the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act (the “Act”), Title
52, Chapter 4, and the following provisions, which are based on Sections from Title 10, Chapter
3:
A. Regular and special Council meetings (See Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-502).
1. The Council shall:
a. By ordinance prescribe the time and place for holding its regular meeting, subject
to Subsection (1)(b); and
b. Hold a regular meeting at least once each month.
2.
a. The Mayor of or two Council members may order the convening of a special
meeting of the Council.
b. Each order convening a special meeting of the Council shall:
i. Be entered in the minutes of the Council; and
ii. Provide at least three hours’ notice of the special meeting.
c. The municipal recorder or clerk shall serve notice of the special meeting on each
Council member who did not sign the order by delivering the notice personally or
by leaving it at the member's usual place of abode.
d. The personal appearance by a Council member at a special meeting of the Council
constitutes a waiver of the notice required under Subsection (2)(c).
B. Quorum defined (See Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-504).
The number of Council members necessary to constitute a quorum is three.
2

C. Compelling attendance at meetings of legislative body (See Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-

505).

The Council may compel the attendance of its own members at its meetings and provide
penalties it considers necessary for the failure to comply with an exercise of the authority to compel
attendance.

D. How the vote is taken (See .Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-506).

A roll call vote shall be taken and recorded for all ordinances, resolutions, and any action
which would create a liability against the Metro Township and in any other case at the request of
any member of the Council by a "yes" or a "no" vote and shall be recorded. Every resolution or
ordinance shall be in writing before the vote is taken.

E. Minimum vote required (See Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-507).

1. The minimum number of yes votes required to pass any ordinance or resolution, or to
take any action by the Council, unless otherwise prescribed by law, is a majority of the
voting members of the Council, without considering any vacancy in the Council.

2.

a. Any ordinance, resolution, or motion of the Council having fewer favorable votes
than required in this section is defeated and invalid.

b. Notwithstanding Subsection (2)(a), a Council meeting may be adjourned to a
specific time by a majority vote of the Council even though the majority vote is
less than that required in this section.

c. A majority of the Council members, regardless of number, may fill any vacancy
in the Council as provided under Utah Code Ann. § 20A-1-510.

F. Reconsideration (See Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-508).

Any action taken by the Council may not be reconsidered or rescinded at any special
meeting unless the number of members of the Council present at the special meeting is equal to
or greater than the number of members present at the meeting when the action was approved.

G. Business of Council conducted only in open meeting (See Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-

601).

All meetings of the Council shall be held in compliance with the provisions of Title 52,
Chapter 4, Open and Public Meetings Act.

3

H. Rules of conduct for members of the Council (See Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-607).
The Council may fine or expel any member for disorderly conduct upon a two-thirds vote of the
members of the Council. Any motion to expel or fine a member of the Council must cite the
applicable law, regulation, or violation justifying expulsion or fine.
I. Rules of conduct for the public. (See Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-608).

The Council may expel any person who is disorderly during a Council meeting by a two-
thirds vote.
RULE NO. 2 - MEETING AGENDA
PURPOSE: All meetings of the Council shall comply with the Act, which requires the
development of an agenda and related public notice before each meeting and prohibits final
action on items that are not included in an agenda. The purpose of this rule is to govern the
development of the agenda for the Council’s meetings in accordance with the Act.
PROCEDURE. The agenda for each Council meeting shall be the guide to the meeting. Items may
only be placed on the agenda by either the Mayor or any two Council members. While matters
not on the agenda may at times come up for discussion, no final action can be taken on any matter
not on the agenda. Every agenda of the Council, excluding closed meetings, shall include an item
entitled to “public comment.”
RULE NO. 3 — DISCUSSION OF AGENDA ITEMS
PURPOSE: The purpose of this rule is to provide for the orderly discussion of matters
included on meeting agenda in accordance with the Act.
PROCEDURE: The Mayor shall open and introduce an item on the agenda in order, unless the
Mayor feels like there is a good reason to go out of order. If the item is one that requires discussion
the Council members can consider the item in a polite, civil, free-for-all type exchange of ideas
for as long as they feel necessary. The Mayor may or may not, at his or her discretion, allow
members of the public or staff to participate in the discussion. When the Mayor thinks the
discussion has gone on long enough, and the item is one that requires a decision of the Council,
the Mayor can ask for vote on the matter. Any Councilmember who has had enough of the
discussion, can at any time also ask the Mayor to either move on to the next item or call for a vote
on the item. If a majority of the others on the Council agree, the Mayor shall call for a vote or
move on to the next item as appropriate. No formal motions or seconds are required or necessary.
The Council may raise and discuss items not included in the agenda. Similarly, if the public raises
an issue that is not included in the agenda, the Mayor may, in his or her discretion, allow for the
discussion of the issue. Regardless of such discussion, however, the Council shall not take action
on any item that is not included in the agenda and the public notice of the meeting.

4

RULE NO. 4- DECORUM
PURPOSE. The purpose of this rule is to ensure that the Mayor, the Council, and the public
maintain common courtesy and decorum.
PROCEDURE. The Mayor and Council members shall treat each other and all meeting attendees
with respect and act at all times during the meeting in a civil and courteous manner to each other
and the public.
Only one person at a time will have the floor and every speaker, including both members of the
Council and the public, must be recognized by the Mayor before proceeding to speak.
Personal attacks made publicly toward any person are not allowed. Speakers are encouraged to
bring their complaints regarding the performance of a Township official, employee, or contractor
to the Mayor outside of a public meeting.
Any member of the public interrupting Council proceedings, approaching the dais without
permission, otherwise creating a disturbance, or failing to abide by these rules of procedure in
addressing Council, shall be deemed to have disrupted a public meeting and, at the direction of the
Mayor, shall be removed from Council chambers by Police Department personnel or other agent
designated by Council or Township Manager (if applicable).
RULE NO. 5 - MOTIONS
PURPOSE. The purpose of this Rule is to describe the process by which the Council will
decide matters by motion.
PROCEDURE. Any matter that requires a Council decision shall be brought before the
Council by motion. The Mayor shall initiate the motion by either: (1) inviting members of the
Council to make a potion; (2) suggestion a motion to the Council; (3) making the motion; or
(4) reading a motion suggested by Metro Township staff. The Mayor has the same right as
other Council members to make a motion but should only do so when he or she desires to
make a motion and is convinced that no other member of the Council desires to make the
motion.
RULES NO. 6 - PARLIAMENTARIAN
PURPOSE. The purpose of this Rule is to designate a parliamentarian to serve as the
designated expert on these Rules of Order and to help resolve questions relating to their
interpretation and implementation.

5

PROCEDURE. The Metro Township Attorney shall serve as the parliamentarian for the
Council and its meetings, and shall recommend rulings, upon request by the presiding officer,
to all points of order raised during the proceedings.
RULE NO. 7 —- ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER
PURPOSE. The purpose of this rule is to provide a mechanism to address issues not covered
by these Rules of Order.
PROCEDURE. The most current edition of Robert’s Rules of Order shall govern any
parliamentary issue that these rules of order and procedure do not address.

6

RESOLTUION NO. , 2019
A RESOLUTION OF THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL ADOPTING
RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE FOR THE COUNCIL
RECITALS
WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-606 requires a municipal legislative body to adopt rules of
order and procedure to govern the body’s public meetings;
WHEREAS, the Kearns Metro Township Council (the “Council”) desires to adopt rules of order
and procedure to company with the requirements of Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-606(2).
WHEREAS, the Council has determined that the rules of order and procedure attached to this
Resolution shall serve the best interests of the Kearns Metro Township and the general public.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED by the Kearns Metro Township Council that
effective immediately:
1. The rules of order and procedures attached to this Resolution are approved; and
2. The Council shall make these rules of order and procedure available to the general public
at each of its public meetings and shall post them on the Kearns Metro Township website pursuant to
Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-606(2)(a)(iii).
APPROVED and ADOPTED this day of 2019.
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
By
Kelly Bush, Mayor
ATTEST
Sherrie Swensen, Clerk
Voting:
Council Member Bush voting
Council Member Brown voting
Council Member Peterson voting
Council Member Schaeffer voting
Council Member Snow voting
l
