KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
RESOLUTION #2021-__O 7 -O|
July 12, 2021
A RESOLUTION OF THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
AMENDING 11.20.050 OF THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP
CODE TO PROHIBIT PARKING THAT BLOCKS MAILBOXES
AND MAKING OTHER CONFORMING CHANGES
WHEREAS, vehicles are currently being stopped or parked in close proximity to
mailboxes located within Kearns Metro Township (“Kearns”), which is preventing some
residents of Kearns from receiving their mail; and
WHEREAS, Title 11 of the Kearns Metro Township Code (the “Code”) governs
vehicles and traffic within Kearns; and
WHEREAS, Section 11.20.050 of the Code prohibits people from stopping,
standing, or parking a vehicle in certain specified areas, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions of a law enforcement
officer or traffic control device; and
WHEREAS, to the present date, Section 11.20.050 of the Code does not prohibit
people from stopping, standing, or parking a vehicle in close proximity to mailboxes
located within Kearns; and
WHEREAS, the Kearns Metro Township Council (the “Council”) desires to
amend Section 11.20.050 of the Code to: (1) prohibit any person from stopping, standing,
or parking a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with law or the directions of a law enforcement officer or traffic control device,
within ten feet (10’) of a driveway, on Mondays through Saturdays (except holidays)
between eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. and eight o’clock (8:00) P.M., when a mailbox is
located within five (5’) of such driveway; and (2) to prohibit any person from moving a
vehicle under such person’s control into any of the prohibited areas identified in Section
11.20.050 of the Code; and
WHEREAS, the attached revisions to Section 11.20.050 of the Code have been
presented to the Council for review and approval; and
WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that the
attached revisions to Section 11.20.050 of the Code will serve the best interests of the
Kearns Metro Township and the general public.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE KEARNS METRO
TOWNSHIP that:
1. Section 11.20.050 of the Code is repealed in its entirety and replaced to read as
follows:
11.20.050 Parking Prohibited In Specified Areas
A. No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions of a law
enforcement officer or traffic control device, in any one of the following places:

J. Ona sidewalk area;
2. In front of or within five feet of a private driveway;
3. Within an intersection;

4. Within fifteen feet of a fire hydrant, whether on public or private property or within a
fire lane as designated and marked in accordance with the provisions of subsection J
of Section 2.28.030 of this code, whether on public or private property;

5. Ona crosswalk;

6. Within twenty feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;

7. Within thirty feet of any flashing beacon or traffic control device located at the side
of a roadway;

&. In front of or within twenty feet on either side of the entrance or exit of any theater,
fire station or place of public assemblage;

9. Within fifty feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;

10. Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when stopping, standing
or parking would obstruct or be hazardous to traffic;

11. Within any alley, except for the necessary and expeditious loading and unloading of
merchandise; provided, that in no event shall the driveway or entrance to any abutting
property be blocked or free movement of traffic through the alley be interfered with;

12. Upon any bridge or other elevated structure on a street or within a street tunnel or
underpass;

13. Upon that side of any street contiguous to any school property during school hours;

14, At any place where official signs or traffic controls placed by the traffic engineer
prohibit stopping, standing or parking; or

15. Within ten feet (10°) of a driveway between 8:00 A.M. and 8:00 P.M. Mondays
through Saturdays (except holidays) when a mailbox is located within five feet (5’) of
such driveway.

B. No person shall move a vehicle under such person’s control into any such prohibited area, or
upon any area not designated for vehicular travel or parking.
2. This Resolution shall take effect immediately on passage and its publication on
the Utah Public Notice Website pursuant to Utah Code Anne. § 10-3-710(1).
[execution on the following page]

APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Salt Lake County, Utah, this12th day of July, 2021.
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
WK \
Bs pe 84S ADR
Kelly Ken) Mayor
ATTEST APPROVED AS TO FORM:
hans Dusen ff Bracken,
Sherrie Swensen, Clerk/Recorder Metro Township Attorney
VOTING
Council Member Bush voting Yeu
Council Member Butterfield voting Vow
Council Member Peterson voting &
Council Member Schaeffer voting &
Council Member Snow voting Gen
(Complete as applicable)
Summary of ordinance published on Utah Public Notice Website:
Date of publication:
Effective date of ordinance:

SUMMARY OF
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP ORDINANCE NO, 2021- 07- of
On July 12, 2021, the Kearns Metro Township Council enacted Ordinance No 2021-
01-ol , Amending Section 11.20.050 of the Kearns Metro Township Code to prohibit
parking that blocks mailboxes and making other conforming changes. A complete copy of this
ordinance is available in the office of the Kearns Metro Township Clerk, located at 2001 South
State Street, N2-700, Salt Lake City, Utah.
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
/
BySX as he * A WA
Kelly Bush, (ua) or
ATTEST APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Dien 20 inser 4 Bracken,
herrie Swensen, Clerk/Recorder Metro Township Attorney
VOTING
Council Member Bush voting Veo
Council Member Butterfield voting ia
Council Member Peterson voting Te
Council Member Schaeffer voting Ye.
Council Member Snow voting Sin
