 RESOLUTION NO. 2023-01-01                                                      January 09, 2023


A RESOLUTION OF THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL ADOPTING THE
              KEARNS ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION PLAN

                                           RECITALS

WHEREAS, Kearns Metro Township is a municipality and has the authority to pass all
ordinances and rules, and make all regulations, not repugnant to law, necessary for carrying into
effect or discharging all powers and duties pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-8-84; and

WHEREAS, the Kearns Metro Township Council adopted the first General Plan since Kearns’
incorporation in 2020 and that Plan set a goal to, “increase walkability, including pedestrian and
bicycle connectivity, accessibility, safety, and comfort for people of all ages and abilities”; and

WHEREAS, well-planned active transportation facilities are found to improve safety for people
walking, biking, and rolling - including school-age children, increase opportunities for residents
to access places of education and employment – regardless of vehicle ownership, and enhance
quality of life and public health through greater recreational opportunity; and

WHEREAS, in 2020, Kearns received a grant from Wasatch Front Regional Council for the
completion of an Active Transportation Plan, which was awarded to Avenue Consultants, LLC.
and completed in December 2022; and

WHERAS, the Kearns Metro Township Council intends to use the Kearns Active Transportation
Plan as an advisory document to guide planning and decision-making, including potential
budgeting prioritization, in order to facilitate a safe, efficient, and sustainable transportation
network.

                                         RESOLUTION

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP
COUNCIL, effective immediately, that the attached Kearns’ Active Transportation Plan
adopted through resolution on January 9th, 2022, is approved in its entirety.


         PASSED and ADOPTED this 9               day of January                , 2023.




                                                1
                                                KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL:


                                                By:                                , Mayor

                                                Date: January 9, 2023



                                                ATTEST:



                                                Lannie Chapman, Clerk / Recorder

VOTING:

Council Member Bush voting Y
Council Member Snow voting Y
Council Member Butterfield voting Excused
Council Member Schaeffer voting Y
Council Member Peterson voting Y


     A complete copy of Resolution No. 2023-01-01       is available in the office of the
     Kearns Metro Township Clerk, 2001 South State Street, N2-700, Salt Lake City, Utah.




                                            2
             STAFF REPORT: DRAFT KEARNS ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION PLAN

FILE NUMBER: OAM2023-000783

PUBLIC BODY: Kearns Metro Township Council

LOCATION: All areas within the incorporated Kearns Metro Township

PLANNER: Kayla Mauldin, Senior Long Range Planner (KMauldin@msd.utah.gov)

MEETING DATE: January 9th, 2022

RECOMMENDATION: Adopt the Kearns Active Transportation Plan as drafted.

                                           SUMMARY

At the Council Meeting on January 9th, 2022, staff will ask the Council to consider the adoption of
the Kearns Active Transportation Plan as drafted. This Plan was funded through a grant from
Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) and was prepared by Avenue Consultants. The drafted
Plan represents the first Active Transportation Plan for Kearns Metro Township and builds off of
the vision articulated in the Kearns Master Transportation Plan and Kearns General Plan.

Although the Plan was prepared by an outside consultant, both MSD Long Range Planning Staff
and Engineering Staff were involved in the planning process. Once adopted, the Active
Transportation Plan should serve as an advisory document to Staff and the Council, who can use
it to apply for grant funding, set budget priorities, and guide decision-making. The actions
proposed in the Plan are recommendations only and are in no way binding on Kearns Metro
Township.

                                            EXHIBITS

   1. Draft Kearns Active Transportation Plan (with highlights showing that actions are
      recommendations ONLY and are not binding on Kearns).
   2. Draft Resolution Adopting the Kearns Active Transportation Plan.




                                                   Staff Report: Kearns Active Transportation Plan | 1
                          BACKGROUND AND PLANNING PROCESS

Grant Award: In 2020, Kearns received a grant from Wasatch Front Regional Council’s
Transportation and Land Use Connection (TLC) Program to conduct an active transportation plan.
The grant was received jointly with Magna Metro Township, for a total grant award of $98,000.
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the project was delayed until September of 2021. At that time,
the project was awarded to Avenue Consulting, who led the planning effort for Kearns and Magna.
Although the grant was shared between Kearns and Magna, each community received its own
drafted active transportation plan.

Project Vision: The active transportation plan kicked-off with a steering committee workshop on
November 16th, 2021. The workshop included representatives from Kearns, The Greater Salt Lake
Municipal Services District (MSD), Salt Lake County, WFRC, UDOT, UPD, and local community
organizations. At this workshop, committee members brainstormed goals and identified a vision
statement that would guide the rest of the planning process:

       “Connecting destinations with accessible infrastructure for all ages and abilities”.

Public Engagement: Additional opportunities for stakeholder involvement were offered during
the planning process. A project website was developed to house updates and connect the public
with project information (https://activekearnsmagna.com). Between March and August of 2022,
an online survey was available to residents via the project website. It was also shared through the
MSD Newsletter and on social media. Public open houses were held at the Kearns Library on April
14th and October 3rd, and a pop-up event was hosted in the Kearns Library Plaza by the project
team in May of 2022. In general, Kearns residents supported the expansion of active transportation
infrastructure and especially advocated for additional east-west connections.

The final draft of the Kearns Active Transportation Plan was sent to MSD and Salt Lake County
Engineering Staff on December 13th, 2022.

                 CONTENT OF THE DRAFT ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION PLAN

The drafted active transportation plan includes six sections.

   1. Existing Conditions: this section reviews previous plans completed by the municipality and
      identifies strengths and challenges in the current active transportation network. New data
      collected includes pedestrian actuation (the number of times pedestrians pressed a button
      to cross the street at different intersections), STRAVA self-reported statistics for walkers
      and bikers, and community equity indicators.
   2. Vision & Goals: Section 2 introduces the project vision and establishes several goals for
      the Kearns and Magna Active Transportation Plans. The vision and goals were established
      by the steering committee, which included several different transportation agencies and
      representatives from local organizations. Figure 1 shows the vision and goals selected for
      the plan.

                                                   Staff Report: Kearns Active Transportation Plan | 2
     Figure 1: Kearns & Magna Active Transportation Plans, Vision and Goals.




                           Credit: Avenue Consulting, 2021.

3. Public Involvement: this section outlines the different engagement activities conducted
   during the planning process. Engagement included the formation of a project website,
   completion of an online survey, steering committee meetings, two public workshops, and
   a pop-up event. Steering committee members were very engaged in the process, but
   attendance from the public was limited.

                                            Staff Report: Kearns Active Transportation Plan | 3
4. Active Transportation Facilities: this section introduces the different types of active
   transportation facilities that are recommended in the plan.
       a. On-Street Facility types include:
                i. Marked Shared Roadways;
               ii. Bike Lanes;
               iii. Buffered Bike Lanes; and
               iv. Sidepaths and Shared Use Paths.
                    Figure 2: Active Transportation Facility Types.




                            Credit: Avenue Consulting, 2022.
       b. The Plan also recommends crossing enhancements through different interventions
          ranging from crosswalks, to increased lighting and signage.
5. Proposed Projects: Section 5 is the most critical section in the Kearns Active Transportation
   Plan. It identifies the specific projects that are recommended in order to achieve the
   community’s active transportation goals and vision. In total, thirty-nine (39) projects were
   proposed. Some of these are small, such as adding ‘shared road’ signage to Corriander
   Drive. Other proposed projects are much larger, such as adding a sidepath along 6200 S.
   It is important to note that the identified actions are recommendations only. It will be up
   to the Kearns Council to decide how they want to prioritize projects or allocate funding. If
   all projects are completed as recommended, forty-one (41) miles of new facilities would
   be created in Kearns.

                                               Staff Report: Kearns Active Transportation Plan | 4
       In Exhibit 1, staff have highlighted text in the draft Plan that supports the understanding
       that projects are optional and do not bind Kearns in any way. See page 29 of the Plan for
       the full list of proposed projects.
       Figure 3: Map of Proposed Projects in the Kearns Active Transportation Plan.




                               Credit: Avenue Consultants, 2022.
   6. Funding: the final section of the Plan provides suggestions for how projects could be
      funded in the future. This section will be especially helpful to staff and the Council as they
      work toward grant applications, propose capital improvement budgets, or seek long-term
      funding mechanisms.
                   USING THE KEARNS ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION PLAN

Like the existing Master Transportation Plan, the Kearns Active Transportation Plan can serve as a
blueprint for identifying and funding future infrastructure projects – in this case, those that
enhance community members’ ability to walk, bike, and roll to destinations. MSD Planning Staff
and Engineering Staff can use the Active Transportation Plan as a guide when applying for various
grants. The Kearns Council may also refer to the Plan when making decisions about capital
improvement funding or other budget expenditures. Residents may wish to explore the Plan to
gain a deeper understanding of Kearns’ vision for its future or to learn how they can make small
improvements within their own neighborhoods. The Active Transportation Plan serves as an
advisory document only.

                                                   Staff Report: Kearns Active Transportation Plan | 5
                            PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION

MSD Planning Staff and Engineering Staff worked with the consultant team to review the drafted
Active Transportation Plans and make revisions. The staff has determined the following findings
in support of the drafted Plan:

   1. The Active Transportation Plan is supported by the adopted 2020 General Plan which sets
      a goal to, “Increase walkability, including pedestrian and bicycle connectivity, accessibility,
      safety, and comfort for people of all ages and abilities” (pg.132).
   2. Kearns residents and stakeholders had the opportunity to get involved in the planning
      process through a survey, two public workshops, a pop-up event, and communications on
      the project website. Plan content generally reflects the vision of the community.
   3. The drafted Plan provides enough detail as to location, facility type, and estimated cost,
      that it can be used by staff and the Council to apply for grant funding or set budget
      priorities for implementation.
Given the above findings, staff recommends that the Council adopts the Active Transportation
Plan, with or without revisions as determined necessary by the Council.
                                          CONCLUSION

The Kearns Active Transportation Plan is the result of a year-and-a-half-long planning process
that included extensive data collection and opportunities for public involvement. The final product
includes six sections, of which Section 5 “Proposed Projects”, is the most critical to the community.
Once adopted, the Active Transportation Plan should be seen as an advisory document that can
guide funding applications, budgeting, and decision-making related to infrastructure
improvements for walking, biking, and rolling.




                                                    Staff Report: Kearns Active Transportation Plan | 6
     EXHIBIT 1




KEARNS
TABLE
OF CONTENTS
01 E X I S T I N G CONDIT IONS . . . . . . . . . . .........1                                 0 5 PRO POSE D PROJECTS ....... ..............25
      PROJECT CONTEXT................................................2                           INTRODUCTION........................................................26
      EXISTING FACILITIES.............................................3                          PRIORITIZATION.......................................................27
      PAST PLANS............................................................4                    PROPOSED PROJECTS AND
      EXISTING TRANSIT.................................................5                         SPOT IMPROVEMENTS............................................28
      SAFETY.....................................................................6               MAINTENANCE.........................................................34
      BIKE & PEDESTRIAN PRESENCE...........................8                                     PLAN ADOPTION AND COORDINATION
                                                                                                 WITH WFRC...............................................................34
      EQUITY...................................................................11

                                                                                              0 6 F UNDING............................ ...............35
02 V I S I O N & GOALS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .......1 3                        INTRODUCTION........................................................36
      INTRODUCTION...................................................14                          FEDERAL AND STATE
      VISION WORKSHOP............................................14                              FUNDING....................................................................36
                                                                                                 MPO-LEVEL FUNDING..............................................38
                                                                                                 STATE-LEVEL FUNDING
03 P U BL I C I N VOLVEMENT. . . . . . . . . . . .......1 6
                                                                                                 (NON-UDOT)..............................................................38
      INTRODUCTION...................................................17                          COUNTY-LEVEL FUNDING.......................................39
      PROJECT WEBSITE...............................................17                           CITY-LEVEL FUNDING..............................................39
      STEERING COMMITTEE MEETINGS...................17
      PUBLIC OPEN HOUSES........................................18                            0 7 A PPE NDIX .........................................40
      POP-UP EVENTS...................................................18
      SURVEY..................................................................19


04 AC T I V E T R ANS PORTAT ION
   FAC I L I T I E S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .......2 0

      INTRODUCTION...................................................21
      FACILITY TYPES....................................................22
      SPOT IMPROVEMENTS........................................23




ii
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This plan was a joint effort between the communities of Kearns and Magna as well as several
other agencies and stakeholdres. The Kearns and Magna Active Transportation Team would like to
acknowledge the contribution of many individuals and groups who enriched the planning process
and helped guide this document.

 KEARNS TOWNSHIP                                      WASATCH FRONT REGIONAL
KELLY BUSH, Kearns Mayor                              COUNCIL (WFRC)
LEVI HUGHES, UPD Chief of Police Services - Kearns
                                                     HUGH VAN WAGENEN, Active Transportation
CHARLES HENDERSON, Evidence2Success                  Planner
KEARNS PLANNING COMMISSION MEMBERS                   CHRISTY DAHLBERG, Community Development
KEARNS COUNCIL MEMBERS                               Planner

 MAGNA TOWNSHIP                                       UTAH DEPARTMENT OF
DAN PEAY, Magna Mayor                                 TRANSPORTATION (UDOT)
DEL CRAIG, UPD Chief of Services - Magna             MEGAN LEONARD, UDOT Region Traffic Engineer
TINA WEST, Granite School District - Magna           ANDREA GUEVARA, UDOT Region Traffic Signal
TRISH HULL, District 4 Council Member; Kearns        Engineer
Library Branch Manager                               PETER TANG, UDOT Region Traffic Engineer
 MUNICIPAL SERVICES DISTRICT                         NEDA KIANI, UDOT Transportation Planner

KAYLA MAULDIN, MSD Senior Long Range                  UTAH TRANSIT AUTHORITY
Planner                                              ALEX BEIM, UTA Strategic Planner
MATT STARLEY, MSD Long Range Planner                 CLINT CAMPBELL, UTA Strategic Planner
BIANCA PAULINO, MSD Long Range Planner &
Kearns Library Branch CSS                             OTHER
                                                     MARK MCGRATH, Taylorsville City Long Range Planner
 SALT LAKE COUNTY
                                                     JEFF STEPHENSON, Rio Tinto/Kennecott
MADELINE FRANCISCO GALANG, SLCo Engineer
                                                     MORGAN HADDEN, Get Healthy Utah
WALT GILMORE, SLCo Parks & Recreation
LEON BERRETT, SLCo Public Works                       PLANNING TEAM
ANGELO CALACINO, SLCo Parks & Recreation             THOMAS MCMURTRY, Project Manager
CRYSTAL HULBERT, SLCo Engineer                       EMILIE JORDAO, Transportation Planner
STEVEN KUHLMEIER, SLCo Engineer                      ROB ELDREDGE, Transportation Planner
MERCEDES MAESTAS, SLCo Health                        TOBY LOWRY, Transportation Planner
SHANE ELLIS, SLCo Engineer                           JESSICA TRACY, Transportation Planner
KATIE ROMIG, SLCo Planning & Transportation          STACEE ADAMS, Public Involvement Specialist
1
MAP 1.1
PROJECT
CONTEXT




PROJECT CONTEXT
Kearns is a metro township located in the            About 41% of the population is either under 18
northwest quadrant of Salt Lake County with          years old or over 65, and 10% have a disability.
approximately 36,600 residents (ACS, 2019). The      Additionally, about 10% of the population is
metro township has a total area of 4.6 square        below the poverty threshold. These people
miles; it shares borders with Taylorsville, West     are more likely to rely on transit or active
Valley and West Jordan (Map 1.1).                    transportation (AT) to access destinations in and
                                                     around the township.
According to the US Census (2020), about 36% of
the population identifies as Hispanic or Latino.

For this reason, an inclusive planning process was
put in place to incorporate the feedback from
both English and Spanish-speaking residents.




2
EXISTING FACILITIES
An active transportation network is composed        The Kearns Master Transportation Plan (2020)
of walking, biking and shared-use facilities (see   included a detailed sidewalk analysis for the
chapter 4 for details). These include:              township. The Kearns Active Transportation
                                                    Plan (ATP) plan does not recreate the sidewalk
Walking Facilities
                                                    analysis, instead uses the information to build
                       •   Sidewalk
                                                    upon previous recommendations. Overall,
                       •   Curb Ramps
                                                    Kearns has a connected sidewalk system, but
                       •   Crosswalk
                                                    improvements could be made for shared-use and
                       •   Other Crossing
                                                    biking facilities.
                           Facilities
                                                    The Kearns Active Transportation Plan focuses on
Biking Facilities
                                                    analyzing and recommending biking and shared-
                       • Bike Lane
                                                    use facilities in the township. There are about
                       • Buffered Bike Lane
                                                    two miles of bike lanes, and almost two miles
                       • Marked Shared-
                                                    of shared-use paths (Map 1.2). These include
                         Roadways
                                                    internal park paths such as the path through
                       • Shoulder Bikeways
                                                    Welcker Memorial Park .
                       • Cycle Tracks
Shared-use Facilities
                       • Shared-use Path
                         (paved trail)
                       • Sidepath




 MAP 1.2




                                                                                                  3
PAST PLANS
Several studies have addressed Active                The Kearns Transportation Master Plan analyzed
Transportation in Kearns over the years (Map         a series of demographic and transportation
1.3). These include:                                 datasets for Kearns, including population,
                                                     employment, and land-use. It also included an
• Kearns General Plan
                                                     in-depth sidewalk study and recommendations to
• Kearns Master Transportation Plan & Sidewalk
                                                     improve the walking network in Kearns.
    Study
• Salt Lake County Active Transportation             The goal of the present plan is to harmonize past
    Implementation Plan                              recommendations and suggest additional biking
• Wasatch Front Regional Council Regional            and shared-use facilities as needed.
    Transportation Plan
• Utah’s Unified Transportation Plan, Region 2
• Utah Collaborative Active Transportation
    Study (UCATS)
The Kearns General Plan has the goal to connect
people with the things that they need, whether or
not a person has access to a private automobile
or the abilityto drive. The Kearns Active
Transportation Plan is in alignment with this goal
by proposing active transportation facilities that
connect to local destinations and provide regional
connectivity.




    MAP 1.3




4
EXISTING TRANSIT
Kearns is serviced by six UTA routes as seen        Not all bus stops are serviced by existing active
on Map 1.4 below, these include line 47, 54,        transportation facilities (Map 1.4). The first and
62, 240, 248, and flex route F556. Route 47         last part of the journey that riders walk, bike
connects north Kearns to West Valley and all the    or roll to and from their nearest station or bus
way to the Murray Central TRAX Station where        stop is called the “first/last mile connection.”
riders can connect to the Red and Blue TRAX         These connections provide pathways to transit
lines, as well as the FrontRunner commuter line.    for people of all ages and abilities. First/last mile
Route 54 runs east and west through Kearns          connections are crucial to ensure people can get
and also connects to the Murray Central TRAX        to and from bus stops safely, as well as to reduce
Station. Route 62 runs east and west along south    car trips to transit facilities.
Kearns, loops with Route 54, and connects to
Fashion Place West TRAX Station which serves        Table 1.1 UTA Routes, frequency, and ridership in
the Red and Blue TRAX lines. Route 240 runs         Kearns
north and south along east Kearns, connecting                                                 AVG.
                                                         ROUTE          FREQUENCY
West Valley Central (serving the Green Line) to                                              RIDERS
Jordan Valley TRAX Station (serving the Red         47 | 4700 S        15 minutes              800
Line). Route 248 runs north and south through
                                                    54 | 5400 S        15 minutes              750
the center of Kearns and connects West Valley
Central Station with Old Bingham Station (serving   62 | 6200 S        30 minutes              120
the Red Line).                                      240 | 4000 W       30 minutes              770

A total of 124 bus stops serve Kearns. The most     248 | 4800 W       30 minutes              160
popular bus stops in Kearns are located west of     F556 | 5600 W Flex 30                      120
6200 S 5600 W, north of 5400 S 4015 W, and                        minutes
around the 4700 S 4015 W intersection.

  MAP 1.4




                                                                                                        5
SAFETY
Pedestrian or Bicyclist-Involved Crashes             Crash-severity
There were 31 crashes involving bicyclists and       Crash severity is reported according to a
94 involving pedestrians between 2016 and            5-category scale ranging from no injury to
2021 in Kearns (Map 1.5). Most pedestrian and        fatality. There is considerable emphasis in Utah
bike crashes occurred at intersections, sidewalks,   among safety agencies, transportation planners
and crosswalks during day time. Few bicyclist        and engineers to eliminate fatal crashes. The next
crashes occurred in travel lanes in addition to      level of crash severity, serious injury crashes, is
sidewalks and crosswalks. Crashes were scattered     often included in a crash severity analysis.
throughout the township, primarily on busier
roadways, including 5400 S, 6200 S, 4015 W,          For the analysis period, there were 4 crashes
Cougar Ln, and 5600 W.                               with a fatality and 14 serious injury crashes (Map
                                                     1.6). Fatal crashes occurred primarily on 5400 S,
The intersections of 4015 W & 4700 S, 4270           mostly during low-light situations (late night to
W 5400 S, Cougar Ln & 5400 S, and 5600 W &           early morning). One fatality included a person
5400 S have the highest number of bike crashes.      on a bike at 5400 S 4820 W; remaining fatalities
The intersections of 4015 W & 5400 S, Cougar         consisted of people walking. Most serious injuries
Lane & 6200 S, as well as 5400 S, and, 4280          occurred on 5400 S, 6200 S, and 4015 W.
W 4700 S had the highest concentration of
pedestrian crashes.




    Figure 1.1 HAWK crossing on 5500 S Cougar Ln. in Kearns.
6
                    31
                 Bicyclists


              94
          Pedestrians



MAP 1.5




               4
             Fatal

              14
          Suspected
           Serious
            Injury


MAP 1.6




                              7
BIKE & PEDESTRIAN
PRESENCE
Pedestrian Signal Actuation
Pedestrians experience the built environment on       Design and location are both important when
a fine-grained level and require frequent safe        considering the installation of a crosswalk.
crossings to destinations for crosswalks to be        According to NACTO (National Association of
effective. An area that has adequate crossing         City Transportation Officials) if a pedestrian has
facilities can encourage walkability. Crossings       to spend over 3 minutes to get to a crossing,
that align with pedestrian desire lines (paths        cross a road and get back on track to their
taken because they are the shortest, obvious,         destination, it becomes very likely the pedestrian
easiest, etc. to access a destination) may prove to   will forgo the crosswalk entirely and choose a
have the highest use and/or greatest efficacy.        riskier option for crossing a street.
Pedestrians who wish to cross a street where an       To provide a safe crossing facility, painted lines
actuated traffic signal is present need to push       may be insufficient. Flashing beacons, HAWK
a button to have their presence detected. The         (High-intensity activated crosswalk beacon)
moment the crosswalk signal switches from             signals, pedestrian refuge islands, alternative
stop to go is called “signal actuation” and helps     textured or colored paving, or other traffic
us understand crossing patterns, intersection         calming or safety measures should be considered
usage and presence of pedestrians within the          (see chapter 4 for details).
transportation network.
                                                      The highest actuation numbers in Kearns were
                                                      found on 5400 S & 4015 W and 5415 S 4280 W
                                                      (Map 1.7).




    MAP 1.7




8
STRAVA Usage - Pedestrians
STRAVA is an app that uses GPS tracking to            The highest numbers of pedestrians were
record a cyclist, runner, jogger, walker’s, etc.      found along Cougar Lane, 6200 S, and the
specific route. The data provides a general           southwest boundary of Kearns (Map 1.8).
idea of where people are participating in active      These areas provide connections between
transportation. It is understood that the data        residential neighborhoods and destinations
is representative of only certain segments            such as the Kearns High School (a), Oquirrh
and demographics of the population, such              Park (b), Lodestone Park (c), Thomas W Bacchus
as expert bicyclists and those with access to         Elementary and the Church of Latter Day Saints
mobile devices, and does not by any means             (d). The 6200 S corridor also provides access to
represent all active transportation users.            residential and commercial properties.
However, it is beneficial to see where these active
transportation trips are occurring along the road
network in Kearns.
When this data is combined on a map with
Kearns’s existing active transportation facilities,
it can help identify where projects may be of
highest use, or where there is a latent demand
for active transportation infrastructure.




 MAP 1.8

                                                                        a
 Total Yearly Trips (2021)                                    b
                                       c     d




                                                                                                         9
STRAVA Usage - Bikes
The STRAVA data for Kearns confirms the high-
usage of roads that do not have established or
high-comfort biking facilities such as 5600 W, 5400
S, and throughout neighborhoods (Map 1.9).
Most biking facilities in Kearns are shoulder
bikeways which rank low in comfort level,
discouraging most from biking, especially in
wide roadways with speed limits above 30 mph,
such as 5600 W and 5400 W. This supports
recommendations of higher-comfort facilities in
those locations.
It is also noticeable that there is biking activity
throughout residential areas within Kearns which
supports recommendations of finer-grain facilities
to help connect residences to destinations.




 MAP 1.9



 Total Yearly Trips (2021)




10
EQUITY
Economic Status
Economic status was evaluated in Kearns using
2019 American Community Survey (ACS) data at
a block group level.

This information helps us understand where
communities may need enhanced access to
biking and walking facilities as they may be more
dependent on these modes to get to their daily
destinations.

In general, the entirety of Kearns will benefit
from more biking and shared-use facilities, but
especially the areas highlighted in dark green
(Map 1.10) which includes the communities near
Mountain Man Park.




 MAP 1.10




                                                    11
Carless Households
The percentage of carless households in Kearns
by block group level (ACS 2019) was also
analyzed. This information helps us identify areas
where alternative transportation facilities are
needed.
The northwest portion of the township, as well
as neighborhoods near David Gourley Park have
the higher percentages of households with no
car. In these areas, residents might rely more on
active transportation and transit than other parts
of Kearns.




 MAP 1.11




12
13
                                                                     Figure 2.1 Vision Statement Vote

INTRODUCTION                                         VISION WORKSHOP
The Vision and Goals for this plan were              guide the project.
brainstormed and identified during a Vision
                                                     The project team began the Visioning Workshop
Workshop held at the Kearns Library on
                                                     by presenting existing conditions in Kearns and
November 16, 2021. Approximately 20
                                                     Magna which provided up-to-date area context.
participants joined the meeting to provide input,
                                                     After reviewing existing conditions, the group
including representatives from Evidence2Success,
                                                     was presented with a series of questions asking
Salt Lake County Engineering, UPD Police
                                                     to identify strengths, weaknesses, and desires for
Services, UDOT, WFRC, Salt Lake County Health,
                                                     the active transportation network which created
Salt Lake County Bicycle Advisory Committee,
                                                     a series of word clouds. These word clouds
Greater Municipal Services District (MSD), and
                                                     provided a framework for a vision and prepared
Get Healthy Utah.
                                                     the group to think of goals for the Plan, project
The purpose of the workshop was to engage            recommendations, and the community.
local stakeholders and community leaders in the
planning process and to create a unified vision to


14
After the word cloud exercise, the group was
given the opportunity to suggest goals. All
comments were recorded and reviewed for
themes and common ideas, summarizing ideas to
a short list of five goals.

Before ending the workshop, the project team
presented several vision statements using word
clouds to identify community priorities. Each
participant was able to vote for the vision of their
choice and discuss what they would add or revise.
Connectivity to local destinations, existing active
transportation facilities, and transit routes was
a frequent theme of the discussion. Equity and
planning for all ages and abilities was another
common element.

Figure 2.3 illustrates the final vision and goals
generated at the Kearns and Magna Active
Transportation Plans Vision Workshop. These
priorities will provide screening metrics for
project recommendations as part of the final plan.




Figure 2.2 Word Cloud Polling Exercise                 Figure 2.3. Final Vision and Goals for the Kearns &
                                                       Magna ATPs



                                                                                                         15
     3
16
3
    INTRODUCTION                                           The website was continuously updated
                                                           throughout the development of this plan with
    An extensive community involvement effort              schedule updates, project maps, access to the
    was developed as part of this plan. This included      community survey, and notice for the public
    building a project website, creating community         meetings held in Kearns and Magna.
    surveys, holding meetings with the steering
    committee and local stakeholders, as well as           STEERING COMMITEE
    public open houses and pop-ups in Kearns. The          MEETINGS
    comments, observations, and opinions discussed
    with the community provided the team with              A series of meetings were held over the course
    invaluable information that helped guide the           of the project to help guide the planning process.
    planning process.                                      These included a Vision Workshop, Brainstorm
                                                           Workshop, Project Review and Refinement
    PROJECT WEBSITE                                        Meetings as well as a Final Draft Review Meeting.

    A project website was developed early in the           The Steering Committee included the project
    process to help inform stakeholders and the            consultant team as well as representatives from:
    public about the study (activekearnsmagna.com).        •   Greater Municipal Services District (MSD)
                                                           •   SLCo Parks and Recreation
                                                           •   SLCo Engineering
                                                           •   SLCo Planning and Transportation
                                                           •   SLCo Health Department
                                                           •   Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC)
                                                           •   Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT)
                                                           •   Utah Transit Authority (UTA)




    Figure 3.1 The project website was available in both   Figure 3.2 Brainstorm Workshop
    English and Spanish
                                                                                                           17
PUBLIC OPEN HOUSES
Open houses were held in Kearns on April 14th,
2022 and October 3rd, 2022.
The open house exhibited information on
existing conditions, the need for AT planning in
the area, as well as large maps showcasing the
draft proposed active transportation projects.
Attendants were encouraged to provide
feedback, draw and leave comments on the map.

In general, attendees were happy to see the
expansion of the AT network in Kearns. Some
expressed concerns regarding what it might take       Figure 3.3 Pop-up Event at the Kearns Library
to implement certain facilities, including parking
removal, lane width reduction and right-of-way        POP-UP EVENTS
acquisition. Many voiced support for stronger
east-west connections and improved access to          The project team also hosted a pop-up event at
off street trails and paths, and that a trail along   the Kearns Library in May of 2022. This provided
the railroad with neighborhood connections            an additional opportunity for community
could be an important facility for both commuting     members to comment on proposed projects.
and recreation.                                       Participants wrote on the maps and were
                                                      encouraged to visit the online survey and provide
                                                      additional feedback.

Figure 3.3 Public Open House at the Kearns Library




18
SURVEY
                                                        In the open ended responses, residents voiced a
Magna, Kearns, Salt Lake County, the Greater            desire for trails, bicycle lanes and improvements
Municipal Services District, and others shared a        to existing infrastructure (in particular sidewalk
nine-question survey that was hosted online from        maintenance and repair).
March-August and available in both English and
Spanish.
                                                               The major East-West corridors have
The survey asked respondents to give feedback                  inadequate shoulders for biking, and the
on the importance of walking and biking in their               high speed traffic make it very risky
community, habits related to walking and biking,
and areas of concern/issues related to walking                 Quality of sidewalks. You can’t walk
and biking.                                                    strollers, ride bikes, scooters, roller skates,
                                                               skateboards, long boards, etc…
The following key take-aways were identified
through the survey results:

• 96% of respondents said bicycle and                   Figure 3.3 Survey Question: How important are
  pedestrian facilities were very important or          bicycle and pedestrian facilities to you in Kearns and
  somewhat important to them in the Kearns              Magna communities?
  community
• 88% of respondents walk in their community
  weekly or daily
• Only 34% of respondents bike in their
  community weekly or daily
• 73% of respondents said they had avoided
  walking or biking in their community at some
  point because comfortable facilities were not
  available




Figure 3.4 Survey Question: Why do you typically walk or bike? (Select all that apply)




                                                                                                            19
20

     4
    INTRODUCTION
    The Kearns Active Transportation Plan aims not
    only to provide recommendations on where AT
    facilities should be located, but also how they
    should be constructed.

    There are best practices for building different
    types of active transportation facilities. The
    following guidelines are based on several national
    and local standards including:

    • National Association of City Transportation
      Officials (NACTO) Urban Bikeway Design
      Guide
    • Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)
      Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices
      (MUTCD)
    • UDOT Bikeway Schema & Design Manual
      Drawings




4
    Figure 4.1 Informal trails (desire lines) leading to areas where pedestrians cross the railroad neae 5415 S &
    Northwest Rd. This area is mostly used by students accessing the Kearns High School.




                                                                                                                21
FACILITY TYPES
Generally, active transportation facilities are          Chapter 5: Proposed Projects, details the
classified between the following types:                  locations of different active transportation facility
                                                         types throughout Kearns.
• On-Street Facilities: shared roadways,
                                                         The facilities proposed in this plan include:
  shoulder bikeways, bike lanes, buffered bike
  lanes and cycle tracks.                                • Marked Shared Roadway
• Off-Street Facilities: sidewalks, sidepaths and        • Bike Lane
  shared-use paths.
                                                         • Buffered Bike Lane
• Spot Improvements: intersection and crossing
                                                         • Sidepath
  improvements, bridges and grade-separated
  crossings.                                             • Shared-use Path
On-street facilities fall within the road right-of-      These facilities are represented in Figure 4.2
way (ROW), while off-street facilities may or            below.
may not be located within the ROW. Examples
of off-street facilities within road ROW include
sidepaths and sidewalks. Off-street facilities
outside of the ROW include shared-use paths.




Figure 4.2 Active transportation facility types proposed in the Kearns Active Transportation Plan.

 MARKED SHARED                   BIKE LANE             BUFFERED BIKE LANE                SIDEPATH &
   ROADWAY                                                                             SHARED-USE PATH




                             ON-STREET FACILITIES                                    OFF-STREET FACILITIES

22
Table 4.1 General guidelines for the design of active transportation facilities
                                                                                        SEPARATION FROM
 FACILITY TYPE          LOCATION                 SIGNAGE       PREFERRED WIDTH            ROAD/CANALS/
                                                                                            RAILROAD
Marked Shared      On-street               Yes                Shared lane marking       n/a
Roadway                                                       (112” H x 40” W)
Bike Lane          On-street               Yes                6’                        n/a
Buffered Bike      On-street               Yes                6’ Bike Lane, 3’ Buffer   n/a
Lane
Sidepath           Off-street & above      Yes                10’-12’                   5’ preferred minimum
                   curb                                                                 park strip
Shared-use Path Off-Street & usually Yes                      12’ min.                  6:1 maximum slope
                outside of road ROW                                                     adjacent to canals
                                                                                        20’ preferred minimum
                                                                                        separation from railroad


Table 4.1 summarizes key guidelines for the design of active transportation facilities that meet
national standards. For more detail information, refer to the UDOT Active Transportation Design
Manual.

SPOT IMPROVEMENTS
Spot improvements refer to “limited”
improvement projects, such as intersections and
non-linear small connections.

In the Kearns Active Transportation Plan,
a number of crossings were identified for
enhancement which might include different
treatments depending on the location. Certain
areas, such as railroad crossing areas, would also
benefit from small scale connections referred
on this plan as “Neighborhood Connectors”
that can significantly improve access to active
                                                           Figure 4.3 Neighborhood Connector on Woodhaven
transportation facilities in Kearns.
                                                           Circle, Taylorsville, UT.
Neighborhood Connectors
Neighborhood Connectors are small active
transportation facilities used to improve                    NEIGHBORHOOD CONNECTOR
connectivity within neighborhoods. They are                  DESIGN GUIDELINES
mostly located between houses. Due to private                • Width: 4’ min.
property concerns, these connectors are mostly
built during redevelopment or when the city owns             • Surface: Concrete or asphalt
small portions of right-of-way between homes.
                                                             • Notes: Bicyclists expected to walk their
Neighborhood Connectors are more flexible when                 bikes; fencing optional. No bollards.
it comes to design, and can fit within a wide range
of scenarios.


                                                                                                               23
Enhanced Crossings                                          Improved Lighting
Crossing facilities can be enhanced to increase             In order to improve lighting at crossings,
safety and comfort for pedestrians and bicyclists.          luminaires should be installed at forward
Crossing enhancements might include:                        locations to illuminate the pedestrian and create
                                                            a positive contrast. When lights follow a standard
                                                            configuration along a street line, it produces a
High-visibility crosswalk
                                                            high-level illumination behind the pedestrian
High-visibility crosswalks make use of patterns,            which then appears as a dark silhouette to the
such as “continental” or “ladder” style, which are          drivers (i.e. negative contrast). Asymmetrical light
highly visible to both drivers and pedestrians,             beam distributions at crossings help mitigate that
more so than the commonly used transverse                   and better illuminate pedestrians for improved
lines. Areas with high pedestrian volume and                safety.
close to downtown or commercial centers might
                                                            Enhanced Signing and Pavement Strategies
benefit from additional artwork to encourage a
sense of place.                                             Pedestrian
                                                            warning signs
Curb Extension or Floating Curbs
                                                            should be placed
Curb extensions visually and physically narrow              at non-signalized
the roadway, creating safer and shorter crossings           crossings and mid-
for pedestrians while increasing the available              block crossings
space for street furniture, benches, plantings,             (Figure 4.5). Mid-
and street trees. They may be implemented on                block crossing
downtown, neighborhood, and residential streets,            improvements might
large and small. Similar to Curb Extensions,                include Rectangular
Floating Curbs increase pedestrian visibility by            Flashing Beacon
restricting parked vehicles from blocking slight            (RRFB) and High-
lines. Floating curbs are easier to retrofit into           intensity Crosswalk Figure 4.4 Pedestrian warning
                                                                                sign at RRFB crossing.
existing infrastructure by maintaining existing             Beacon (HAWK).
curb flow lines and drainage systems.
                                                            Pavement enhacements include raised street
                                                            crossings, speed humps, speed cushions and
                                                            “shark’s teeth” pavement markings.




Figure 4.5 High-visibility crosswalk with artwork in Greenville, NC.

24
5
25
                                            Figure 5.1 Sidepath on Cougar Lane near the Kearns High School.

INTRODUCTION
The planning process began by identifying the           After the Kearns Active Transportation Plan is
collective vision with key stakeholders, and            adopted, efforts should be focused on completing
engagement with the public further refined all the      connections between existing facilities and key
potential projects available. Then an extensive         destinations such as the Utah and Salt Lake Canal
review and evaluation process brought the active        Trail.
transportation plan into focus. This led to the
                                                        All projects should contribute to the overarching
final list and map of identified projects. Guided
                                                        goal of providing an active transportation system
by a collective vision, this list of projects creates
                                                        based on user needs, comfort level, and ease of
a solid foundation to build a connected active
                                                        accessibility.
transportation system for all ages and abilities.

This plan is not simply about identifying routes
for trails and bike lanes. This active transportation
plan provides a much larger opportunity to realize
a system that unites Kearns’s key destinations
by connecting trails and bike lanes throughout
the township while accommodating people of all
abilities in safety and comfort.
26
PRIORITIZATION
Projects were identified through public and stakeholder feedback, prior plans, safety issues, and an
analysis of gaps in the current network. Potential projects were evaluated based on a set of criteria
that reflects the values of Kearns residents and stakeholders. The result of this prioritization process
is a list of scored projects. The highest-scoring projects best meet the plan’s goals to: foster healthy
communities, plan comfortable facilities for all ages and abilities, promote equity, enhance connectivity,
and provide connections to transit.

Table 5.1 Scoring Criteria Table

         GOAL                                TYPE                                 SCORING


                                                                        • Connects to existing
                            Projects that connect to other active         facility (+4)
       Healthy
                            transportation facilities, existing or
     Communities                                                        • Connects to proposed
                            proposed, score points in this criterion.
                                                                          facility (+2)

                                                                        • Shared-use Path (+8)
                            Projects are scored based on level of
                            comfort. Any facilities outside of road     • Sidepath (+6)
                            right-of-way (shared-use path) will
                                                                        • Buffered Bike Lanes (+4)
   Plan for Comfort         score higher, followed by those above
                            curb (sidepath), and those within the       • Bike Lanes and Marked
                            roadway (buffered bike lane, bike lanes       Shared Roadways(+2)
                            and marked shared roadways)

                                                                        • Connects to an
                            Projects that connect to underserved          underserved
    Promote Equity                                                        neighborhood (+5)
                            neighborhoods score points.


                                                                     • Connects to destinations
                                                                       such as schools, retail,
       Enhance              Projects that connect to destinations in   grocery stores, libraries,
                                                                       community services,
     Connectivity           Kearns score points in this criterion.
                                                                       parks, health care (+5)



                                                                        • Connects to UTA Stop
                            Priojects that connect to UTA stops will      (+3)
  Connect to Transit
                            score points in this criterion.




                                                                                                       27
PROPOSED LINEAR
PROJECTS AND SPOT
IMPROVEMENTS
Linear Projects                                        Cost-Estimates
Kearns Metro Township has 39 proposed projects         Planning level cost estimates were applied to
including 1 shared-use path (Table 5.2). If all        projects using generalized financial assumptions
the projects below were completed as shown,            based on the length of the project and the facility
41 miles of active transportation facilities           type. These are high-level, per mile cost estimates
will be created in Kearns. Map 5.1 shows the           derived from similar, recently completed projects
recommended projects for the township.                 constructed regionally and might include price for
                                                       paving, stripping and signage depending on the
Many of the facilities proposed in this plan are       facility type. No engineering has been done and
off-street and high-comfort, such as sidepaths         these are not an engineer’s estimate.
and shared-use paths, which are usually more
costly than on-street facilities such as bike lanes.   The cost-estimates do not include recent
For this reason, these high-comfort facilities         increases due to inflation, or materials. They
might take longer to get built due to funding          include no cost estimate for right-of-way, land, or
availability and possible right-of-way purchases.      property acquisition.
It is important to note that cheaper interim
                                                       Desire for a Rail Trail
facilities are crucial to the development of a well-
connected active transportation network. For           Throughout the planning process many residents
example, stripping buffered bike lanes on roads        and project stakeholders voiced interest in a rail
where the current recommendation is to build           trail, or shared-used path. Union Pacific currently
sidepaths is an important step towards enhancing       owns and operates on this rail line and does not
the active transportation network in Kearns.           allow for shared-use paths within its right-of-way.
                                                       As a result, without a drastic change in operations
For sidewalk improvement recommendations               a rail trail is not possible. If the rail were to no
refer to the Kearns Master Transportation Plan         longer operate on the existing infrastructure the
(2020).                                                corridor should be considered for a shared-use
                                                       path.
Spot Improvements
A total of 31 spot improvements (25 enhanced
crossings and 6 neighborhood connectors) are
proposed for Kearns (Table 5.3).

Enhanced crossings might include many different
types of amenities. The Metro Township
should decide on a case-by-case basis which
improvements should be done at each crossing
highlighted on this plan.

Examples of crossing enhancements are given on
Chapter 5.




28
MAP 5.1 PROPOSED PROJECTS

Proposed Projects
      Bike Lane
      Buffered
      Bike Lane
      Marked Shared
      Roadway
      Sidepath
      Shared-use Path

Existing Facilities
      Bike Lane
      Buffered
      Bike Lane
      Marked Shared
      Roadway
      Sidepath
      Shared-use Path

Spot Improvements
 E Enhanced Crossing

 C Neighborhood Connector




               Mi
0             0.5     N

                            29
Table 5.2 Final proposed project list. Top six scoring projects are highlighted below.

PROJECT FACILITY PROJECT                        PROJECT                           PROJECT       COST
                                                                     SCORE
  ID      TYPE    NAME                         LOCATION                         LENGTH (MI)   ESTIMATE
             Shared-use   West Side     •   6200 S - 5400 S (5800
     1                                                              14          1.2           $1,208,895
             Path         Connector         W)
                                        •   4700 S (4000 W-4140
     2       Sidepath     4700 S                                    18          0.2           $71,774
                                            W)
                                        •   5600 W (4700 S-6200
     3       Sidepath     5600 W            S)                      18          2.0           $875,641

     4       Sidepath     4000 W        •   4000 W (4700 S-6200S)   18          2.0           $877,016

                                        •   5400 S (4015 W-6055
     5       Sidepath     5400 S            W)                      18          2.4           $1,041,251

                          Cougar        •   Cougar Lane (Niagra
     6       Sidepath                                               18          0.6           $259,868
                          Lane              Way-Oquirrh Park)

     7       Sidepath     6200 S        •   6200 S (4000 W-6105     18          2.6           $1,154,208
                                            W)
                                        •   Coriander Dr (Cougar
             Marked      Corriander         Lane-Park Wood Dr)
     8                                                              14          0.6           $3,992
             Shared Road Dr             •   Parkwood Dr (6200
                                            S-Oquirrh Park

                                        •   4865 S (4015 W-
             Buffered
     9                    4865 S            Warehouse Rd, 4720 W    21          1.8           $81,229
             Bike Lane                      (4865 S-5015 S)

                                        •   Misty Way/4270 W
                                            (6200 S-5500 S)
             Buffered
     10                   Misty Way     •   5500 S (4270 W-4220     16          1.1           $46,761
             Bike Lane
                                            W) 4220 W (5500
                                            S-5415S)
     11      Bike Lane    Twilight Dr   •   (4000 W- Salem Ave)     9           0.8           $21,023
                          Salem Ave/    •   Salem Ave Northwest
     12      Bike Lane    Northwest         Ave/4820 W (Twilight    19          1.6           $39,592
                          Ave               Ave-4865 S)
                                        •   5015 S (4820 W-Steele
     13      Bike Lane    5015 S            St)                     12          0.8           $19,450

                                        •   Cable Ridge Rd, 4820 S
                          Camp              (5200 W-Warehouse Rd
                          Kearns/
     14      Bike Lane                  •   Warehouse Rd (4850     19           1.3           $33,110
                          Industrial
                          Park              S-4865 S) 4985 S
                                            (Warehouse Rd-4720 W)
                          4720 W        •   4720 W (4865 S-4715
     15      Bike Lane    (4865             S) 4715 S (4720         19          0.4           $9,165
                          S-4715 S)         W-4800 W)
                          Impressions •     ImpressionsDr/
     16      Bike Lane    Dr/               EastviewDr (6200        9           1.1           $28,011
                          Eastview          S-5400 S)
                                        •   Wakefield Way (6200 S -
                                            Willingcott way
                          Copper City
     17      Bike Lane                •     Copper City Drive       14          1.1           $28,830
                          Dr
                                            (Willingcott Way-5400
                                            S)


30
PROJECT FACILITY PROJECT                 PROJECT                          PROJECT       COST
                                                                SCORE
  ID      TYPE    NAME                  LOCATION                        LENGTH (MI)   ESTIMATE
                                 •   Steele St (4715 S-5345
                                     S) 5345 S (4280
                                     W-4140 W)
  18    Bike Lane   Steele St                                   14      1.3           $32,036
                                 •   4220 W (5415 S-5345
                                     S) 4140 W (5345
                                     S-Sam's Blvd)
                                 •   5135 S (Steele St-4820
        Marked                       W)
  19    Shared      5135 S                                      12      0.9           $5,433
        Roadway                  •   4320 W (5135 S-5015
                                     S)
        Marked                   •   5130 W (Pieper Blvd -
  20    Shared      5130 W                                      19      0.4           $2,416
                                     4985 S)
        Roadway
        Marked                   •   Plumbago Ave/Vista
                    Plumbago
  21    Shared                       Ridge Way (Impressions     12      0.7           $4,386
                    Ave
        Roadway                      Dr-China Clay Dr)
        Marked                   •   Lodestone Ave
                    Lodestone
  22    Shared                       (Dewpoint Dr-Red Zinc      14      0.8           $4,897
                    Ave
        Roadway                      Dr)
        Marked                   •   Trowbridge Way/Le
                    Trowbridge
  23    Shared                       Chateau Way (5400          9       1.0           $6,533
                    Way
        Roadway                      S-6200 S)
                                 •   Tressler Rd/4500 W
        Marked                       (Twilight Dr-5615 S)
  24    Shared      Tressler     •   5780 S (4580 W-4015        7       1.2           $7,428
        Roadway                      W) 4000 W (5780
                                     S-5615 S)
                                 •   Jargon Way (Blue Iron
        Marked                       Way-West Bench
  25    Shared      Jargon Way       Dr) Best Bench Dr to       9       0.5           $3,436
        Roadway                      Copper City Dr
        Marked      China Clay   •   China Clay Dr (S Copper
  26    Shared                                                  6       0.5           $3,049
                    Dr               City Dr-5400 S)
        Roadway
                                 •   Blue Iron Way/Borax
        Marked                       Ave (Blue Iron Way-
  27    Shared      Borax Ave        Clear Vista Circle)        11      0.8           $5,096
        Roadway                  •   Far Vista Dr (Borax Ave-
                                     Lodestone Park)
                                 •   Heath Ave (5400
                                     S-Planda Way) Planda
        Marked                       Way (Heath Ave-
  28    Shared      Heath Ave        Townsend Way)              19      1.4           $9,050
        Roadway
                                 •   Townsend Way (Planda
                                     Way-5600 W)
        Marked      Westslope    •   Westslope Dr (5600
  29    Shared                                                  11      0.5           $3,230
                    Ave              W-Heath Ave)
        Roadway
                                 •   Henly Dr/Hoopes St
                                     (5600 W-Charlotte Ave)
        Marked                       Charlotte Ave (Hoopes
  30    Shared      Henley Dr        St-5415 S)                 14      1.2           $7,797
        Roadway
                                 •   Cross St (Charlotte Ave-
                                     Heath Ave)



                                                                                                31
PROJECT FACILITY PROJECT                  PROJECT                         PROJECT       COST
                                                                SCORE
  ID      TYPE    NAME                   LOCATION                       LENGTH (MI)   ESTIMATE
          Marked                  •   5500 S (Northwest Ave-
     31   Shared    5500 S            4270 W) 5500 S (4220     9        0.7           $4,632
          Roadway                     W-4015 W)
                                  •   5615 S (Northwest Ave-
                                      4015 )
          Marked                  •   4220 W (5615 S-5500
     32   Shared    5615 S            S)                       9        1.0           $6,411
          Roadway
                                  •   4120 W (5615 S-5415
                                      S)
          Marked                  •   4420 W (5500 S-4715
     33   Shared    4420 W                                     14       1.1           $6,664
                                      S)
          Roadway
          Marked                  •   4620 W (5415 S-4715
     34   Shared    4620 W            S)                       14       1.0           $6,322
          Roadway
                                  •   Ridge Flower Way (Stone
                                      Bluff Way-Impressions
                                      Dr)
          Marked    Ridge      •      Dewdrops Dr (Ridge
     35   Shared                                              9         1.0           $6,600
                    Flower Way        Flower Way-Clernates
          Roadway                     Dr)
                                  •   Clearnates Dr
                                      (Dewdrops Dr-6200 S)
                                  •   Stone Bluff Way (Ridge
                                      Flower Way-Impressions
          Marked                      Dr)
                    Stone Bluff
     36   Shared                                               9        0.9           $5,664
                    Way           •   Ridge Hollow Dr
          Roadway
                                      (Impressions Dr-Mt Flora
                                      Circle)
                                  •   Sarah Jane Dr (5400
                                      S-Honeysuckle Way)
                                  •   Honeysuckle Way
          Marked    Sarah Jane        (Highwood Dr-Stony
     37   Shared                                               11       1.0           $6,118
                    Dr                Park Dr)
          Roadway
                                  •   Stony Park Dr
                                      (Honeysuckle Way-
                                      Impressions Dr)
                                  •   Highwood Dr (Morning
          Marked                      Breeze Dr-5600 W)
                    Highwood
     38   Shared                                               12       1.3           $8,398
                    Dr            •   5425 W (Highwood Dr-
          Roadway
                                      5400 S)
                                  •   6055 S (Park Wood
          Marked                      Dr-Loder Dr) Loder Dr
     39   Shared    6055 S            (6055 S-Vista Point Dr)   9       0.4           $2,400
          Roadway                 •   Vista Point Dr (Loder Dr-
                                      Impressions Dr)




32
Table 5.2 Final list of proposed spot improvements.
                         LOCATION                             TYPE
Townsend Way 5600 W                                     Enhanced Crossing

5600 W Henley Dr                                        Enhanced Crossing

5400 S 5240 W                                           Enhanced Crossing

5600 W Plumbago Ave                                     Enhanced Crossing

5600 W LodesWtone Ave                                   Enhanced Crossing

5415 S 4420 W                                           Enhanced Crossing

4700 S 5475 W                                           Enhanced Crossing

5615 S 4015 W                                           Enhanced Crossing

5780 S 4015 W                                           Enhanced Crossing

Twilight Dr 4000 W                                      Enhanced Crossing

5600 W 5400 S                                           Enhanced Crossing

5400 S Copper City Dr                                   Enhanced Crossing

5600 W Westslope Dr                                     Enhanced Crossing

5415 S Northwest Ave                                    Enhanced Crossing

5415 S 4220 W                                           Enhanced Crossing

4700 S 4800 W                                           Enhanced Crossing

6200 S Cougar Lane                                      Enhanced Crossing

6200 S Misty Way                                        Enhanced Crossing

6200 S 5600 W                                           Enhanced Crossing

6200 S Park Wood Dr                                     Enhanced Crossing

6200 S Clernates Dr                                     Enhanced Crossing

4865 S 4180 W                                           Enhanced Crossing

Squire Crest Dr 4015 W                                  Enhanced Crossing

5415 S Cougar Lane                                      Enhanced Crossing

40715 S 4089 W                                          Enhanced Crossing

5415 S 4015 W                                           Enhanced Crossing

5875 Westbench Dr                                     Neighborhood Connector

6368 Borax Ave                                        Neighborhood Connector

5918 S Mount Flora Cir                                Neighborhood Connector

6200 S 4874 W                                         Neighborhood Connector




                                                                               33
MAINTENANCE                                        PLAN ADOPTION AND
                                                   COORDINATION WITH
Maintenance of active transportation facilities
may be as important as the initial installation.   WFRC
Kearns should develop a policy to ensure
                                                   Once this plan has been presented to and
maintenance will occur on a consistent and
                                                   adopted by the metro township council, MSD
ongoing basis. Maintenance includes regular
                                                   staff should work with the Wasatch Front
upkeep of pavement, paint, landscaping, trash
                                                   Regional Council (WFRC) to ensure that projects
removal, and signage replacement. The following
                                                   are incorporated into the Regional Transportation
is general guidance for developing a maintenance
                                                   Plan (RTP).
policy:
                                                   Amending these projects into the RTP will further
• Kearns, MSD and their public works
                                                   ensure that they become a reality. Projects
  departments should plan for yearly and
                                                   that are included in the RTP qualify for specific
  reoccurring routine maintenance;
                                                   funding sources and are more easily implemented
• Ensure that active transportation facility       due to the regional visibility and recognition.
  maintenance is incorporated into line items
  for the township’s annual budget;
• A general timeline for repairing each type of
  facility should be established. This can help
  effectively prioritize facility upkeep;

• Maintenance should be incorporated into
  private development requirements;

• Sweeping of facilities should occur multiple
  times per year.

Snow removal along bike facilities should occur
when necessary. It should receive the same
urgency and frequency as vehicle travel lanes.
Equipment needed to remove snow along specific
facilities, such as shared-use paths, should be
incorporated into the township’s budget.




34
6
35
INTRODUCTION                                           FEDERAL AND STATE
How projects get constructed often comes down          FUNDING
to them getting funded. This section identifies        Federal funds are available to muticipalities
available funding resources to pay for active          and counties through the federal aid program.
transportation projects within Kearns.                 UDOT administers the funds. To be eligible, a
                                                       project must be listed on the five-year Statewide
Active transportation routes often span multiple       Transportation Improvement Program (STIP)
jurisdictions and provide regional significance
to the transportation network. As a result, other      Learn more about the STIP at https://udot.utah.
government jurisdictions or agencies often help        gov/connect/about-us/commission/stip/
pay for such regional benefits and projects.
Those jurisdictions and agencies could include         Surface Transportation Program (STP)
the Federal Government, the State (UDOT), the          The Surface Transportation Program (STP) funds
County, and the local metropolitan planning            can be used for transportation enhancements
organization (WFRC). Kearns Metro Township             in twelve categories, including bicycle and
will need to continue to partner and work with         pedestrian facilities.
other jurisdictions to ensure adequate funds
are available for these projects. Partnering with      The Joint Highway Committee allocates a portion
other adjacent communities will ensure corridor        of the STP funds for projects around the state
continuity across jurisdictional boundaries.           in urban areas. This is a five-year funding tool,
                                                       and the STIP projects are updated regularly to
                                                       maintain a five-year list of projects.
Figure 6.1 Signalized mid-block crossing on 5600 W near Thomas Jefferson Jr High School.




36
Adding active transportation projects and other       In order to qualify for this funding, local
projects in the study area to UDOT Region 2’s         jurisdictions must:
transportation plan is an important early step.
                                                      • Provide 40% match (non-UDOT dollars and/or
Learn more at https://wfrc.org/programs/                in-kind match);
transportation-improvement-program/surface-
                                                      • Propose projects that are paved;
transportation-program/.
                                                      • Propose projects that are locally maintained;
State Class B and C Program Fund
                                                      • Ensure projects are identified on the UDOT
The distribution of State Class B and C Program
                                                        Active Transportation Plan; and,
funds is established by State Legislation and
is administered by UDOT. Revenues for the             • Demonstrate a congestion reduction on state
program come from state fuel taxes, registration        facility.
fees, driver license fees, inspection fees, and
transportation permits. UDOT keeps seventy-           To learn more, visit: https://udot.utah.gov/
five percent of these funds for their construction    connect/about-us/commission/project-
and maintenance programs. The rest is made            prioritization-process/
available to counties and municipalities. Some of     Safe Routes to School (SRTS)
the roads with active transportation facilities in
the study area fall under UDOT jurisdiction. It is    UDOT also administers Safe Routes to School
in the best interest of Kearns that staff are aware   (SRTS) funding. This is a $1.2 Million annual
of the procedures used by UDOT to allocate            fund to pay for active transportation safety
those funds and are proactive in requesting           improvements near schools across the state. Cities
the funds be made available for UDOT-owned            apply for this funding which is a reimbursement
roadways in the City. Class B and C funds are         fund with no matching dollars required. This
allocated to each municipality and county by a        money can be used for improvements such as new
formula based on population, centerline miles,        trails or sidewalks, signals, crosswalks, etc.
and land area. Class B funds are given to counties,
                                                      Learn more at https://saferoutes.utah.gov/.
and Class C funds are given to municipalities
and towns. Class B and C funds can be used for        Transit Transportation Investiment Fund (TTIF First/
maintenance and construction projects, including      Last Mile)
active transportation; however, thirty percent
of those funds must be used for construction          The Transit Transportation Investment Fund
or maintenance projects that exceed $40,000.          (TTIF) was created under Senate Bill 136. This
The remainder of these funds can be used to           new fund, beginning July 1, 2019, allocates state
match federal funds or pay the principal, interest,   funding from the fuel tax specifically for public
premiums, and reserves for issued bonds.              capital transit projects. However, Senate Bill 72
                                                      opened this fund up to non-motorized projects
Learn more at https://site.utah.gov/connect/          as well. These dollars can also be used for active
business/public-entities/local-government-            transportation projects around transit facilities
program-assistance/.                                  with the new infrastructure providing access to
                                                      transit stops.
Transportation Investment Fund (TIF) Active
                                                      It also requires 40% matching funds from local
The State of Utah via UDOT allows for active
                                                      governments. Cities can use federal (but not
transportation projects to be put on a regional
                                                      UDOT) dollars for the match. More information on
important input list for funding.
                                                      this fund will be developing in the coming years.

                                                      Learn more at https://www.udot.utah.gov/
                                                      connect/about-us/commission/project-              37
                                                      prioritization-process/.
MPO-LEVEL FUNDING                                      projects and programs to help meet the
The WFRC administers several funding programs          requirements of the Clean Air Act.
of both federal and state dollars for the region.      Funds must be used for projects which improve
                                                       air quality. Eligible projects include transportation
Carbon Reduction Program CRP)                          activities in the State Air Quality Implementation
                                                       Plan (SIP), construction and/or purchase of
The Carbon Reduction Program (CRP) funds               public transportation facilities and equipment,
a wide range of projects that support the              construction of bicycle or pedestrian facilities
reduction of on-road CO2 emissions. This may           serving commuter transportation needs,
include projects and strategies that reduce traffic    and promotion of alternative modes such as
congestion by facilitating the use of alternatives     ridesharing.
to single-occupant vehicle trips, including public
transportation facilities, pedestrian facilities,      Learn more at https://wfrc.org/programs/
bicycle facilities, and shared or pooled vehicle       transportation-improvement-program/
trips within the Urbanized Area.                       congestion-mitigation-air-quality-program/

Learn more at https://wfrc.org/programs/               STATE-LEVEL FUNDING
transportation-improvement-program/carbon-
reduction-program/
                                                       (NON-UDOT)
Transportation Alternatives Program (TAP)              Recreational Trail Program

The Transportation Alternatives Program (TAP)          Administered by the Utah Division of State Parks
funds the construction and planning of bicycle         and Recreation, the Recreational Trails Program
and pedestrian facilities. All cities in Salt Lake,    required that motor fuel tax revenues generated
Davis, and Weber Counties are eligible. Funds          from motor fuel sales for off-highway recreational
may be used to construct, plan, and design             purposes be transferred from the Highway Trust
on- and off-road trail facilities for pedestrians,     Fund to the Trails Trust Fund for recreational trail
bicyclists, and other non-motorized forms of           and facility improvements. This program provides
transportation. Non-motorized forms can include        grants for non-motorized and motorized trails,
sidewalks, bicycle infrastructure, pedestrian          including the construction and maintenance
and bicycle signals, traffic calming techniques,       of trails and facilities, staging areas, trailheads,
lighting, and other safety-related infrastructure      restroom facilities, and trail signing.
that will provide safe routes for non-motorists.       Learn more at https://stateparks.utah.gov/
WFRC asks cities to submit letters of intent in the    resources/grants/recreational-trails-program/
fall, with full applications due December 12th this
year for funding in July of the following year. Salt   Land and Water Conservation Fund
Lake County cities typically receive $800,000 to
                                                       Administered by the Utah Division of State
$900,000 every year from this fund.
                                                       Parks and Recreation, the Land and Water
Learn more at https://wfrc.org/programs                Conservation Fund Act provides federal grants
transportation-improvement-program/                    for the acquisition and/ or development of
transportation-alternatives-program/                   public outdoor recreation areas. Any site/facility
                                                       purchased, developed, or improved with funding
Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality Program          from this grant is protected in perpetuity (forever)
(CMAQ)                                                 as a public outdoor recreation area.
The Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality              Learn more at https://stateparks.utah.gov/
Program (CMAQ) funds are for transportation            resources/grants/land-and-water-conservation-
                                                       fund/.
38
Utah Outdoor Recreation Grant                         A quarter of one percent sales tax goes to the
                                                      Regional Transportation Choice Fund. Salt Lake
Administered through the Office of Outdoor            County has an ongoing transportation fund
Recreation, the Utah Outdoor Recreation Grant         that can be spent on a variety of transportation
project helps communities build trails and            projects, including active transportation. One-
other recreation infrastructure by awarding           quarter of this fund is earmarked for active
matching grants. The grants help enhance              transportation projects. Salt Lake County
recreational opportunities and amenities in Utah’s    administers these funds and requires cities to
communities.                                          submit applications. Every project is scored
Learn more at https://business.utah.gov/outdoor/      based on several criteria, including if the project
uorg/.                                                is multi-jurisdictional. For more information,
                                                      contact Salt Lake County Regional Planning and
COUNTY-LEVEL FUNDING                                  Transportation.

CDBG Public Services Funds                            CITY-LEVEL FUNDING
Community Development Block Grants (CDBG)             It is common for cities to use general fund
are awarded to entitlement cities and counties        revenues for active transportation programs.
by US Housing and Urban Development                   General fund revenues are typically reserved for
(HUD). Funds are used to support development          operation and maintenance purposes as they
activities that build stronger and more resilient     relate to transportation. However, general funds
communities. Activities may address needs such        could be used if available to fund the expansion
as infrastructure, public facilities improvements,    of active transportation facilities. Providing a line
clearance/acquisition, among other public service     item in the city budgeted general funds to address
and housing activities. County owned roads and        improvements, which are not impact-fee eligible,
facilities in Kearns and Magna needing active         is recommended to fund active transportation
transportation improvements could be eligible for     projects, should other funding options fall short
CDBG funding through Salt Lake County.                of the needed amount. Revenue bonding can also
Salt Lake County “4th Quarter” Local Option Sales     be used for projects intended to benefit the entire
                                                      community.
Tax
                                                      Private interests may also provide resources for
Utah State law authorizes the imposition of local     active transportation improvements. Developers
option sales taxes for transportation, which is       can construct the local streets with bike lanes
sometimes referred to as “quarters” because           within subdivisions. They may often dedicate
generally they are 0.25% tax rates. These local       right-of-way to trails and parks.
options provide funding for city and county roads
                                                      Areas with planned or anticipated new growth
and active transportation needs, as well as public
                                                      may include new active transportation facilities
transit.
                                                      provided by the developers. Cities can encourage
Under adopted legislation Senate Bill 136             developers to include active transportation
and action by Salt Lake County, there is an           amenities during development review. From small
opportunity for cities to receive funding for         site plans to larger master-planned communities,
priority transportation needs in their communities,   as city staff and planning commissions review
including projects identified in Utah’s Unified       new developments, they can require developers
Transportation Plan.                                  to show how the proposed development will
                                                      accommodate or enhance active transportation
                                                      connections.
                                                                                                        39
