    REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS




City of Kearns Impact Fee Facilities Plan
    and Possible Impact Fees Study




              CITY OF KEARNS
       4956 West 6200 South, Suite 527
              Kearns, UT 84118
                (801) 654-2123
        https://www.kearns.utah.gov/
               August 21, 2024
Table of Contents

1.   General Information                  2
2.   Kearns Impact Fee RFP Provisions     2
3.   Proposal Requirements and Contents   3
4.   Project Timeline                     4
5.   Project Scoring                      5
6.   Scope of Work                        5
7.   Protected Information                7




                                          1
    1. General Information

            A. Introduction

The City of Kearns (“City”) located in Salt Lake County, Utah, is seeking proposals from qualiﬁed
individuals or ﬁrms (Consultant) to develop a complete Impact Fee Facilities Plan (IFFP), and
depending on the results of the IFFP, a possible Impact Fee Study (Study). The Consultant will
evaluate all public facilities that Kearns provides, including stormwater, drainage, and ﬂood control
facilities; roadway facilities; parks, recreation facilities, open space, and trails; and any other public
facilities for which Kearns can impose impact fees under the Impact Fees Act, Title 11, Chapter 36a
of the Utah Code.

This Request for Proposal will assist the City in selecting an experienced Consultant, or team of
Consultants (Respondent), to conduct the activities necessary to develop an up-to-date and
complete IFFP and an associated Study if the City elects to proceed further with the impact fee
process based on the results of the IFFP. The City requires a thorough study and ﬁnal report that
evaluates City impact fees and associated facilities. This study will also include a review of all the
City’s facility master plans that have recently been conducted by a handful of different engineering
ﬁrms. This report must include the method of calculation, and documentation of relevant data.

    2. Kearns Impact Fee RFP Provisions

            A. RFP Contact

This Request for Proposals (“RFP”) has been prepared and issued by Kearns. Kearns’s
representative for this RFP is:

        Daniel Torres
        Economic Development Manager
        385-226-2797
        dtorres@msd.utah.gov

            B. Scope of the Contract


The selected Consultant must be prepared to enter into a written agreement with Kearns. A binding
contract between Kearns and the Respondent(s) will be contingent upon the successful
negotiation, preparation, and execution of a formal agreement. If a Respondent(s) wishes to
propose modiﬁcations to any of the conditions outlined in this RFP, those modiﬁcations must be
clearly identiﬁed in the proposal, along with reasonable alternatives.

This RFP is intended to provide sufficient information to solicit proposals from qualiﬁed
Respondents but does not restrict the content of proposals or exclude the inclusion of relevant,
important, or essential information. This RFP is part of a competitive procurement process
designed to serve the best interests of Kearns and its citizens, while also ensuring that each
qualiﬁed Consultant has a fair opportunity for their services to be considered.

                                                                                                         2
           C. Qualiﬁcations

Respondents are required to provide a detailed discussion of their qualiﬁcations to demonstrate
their capability to successfully complete the project. This section should include and must have
the following minimum qualiﬁcations:

  i.    Demonstrated and veriﬁable skills or experience delivering similar projects and
        demonstrated resources and ability to carry out the tasks identiﬁed in this RFP;
            a. Including references that can speak to their performance and outcomes.
  ii.   Demonstrated the Consultant’s and/or sub-consultants’ understanding of the project
        requirements, showcasing their grasp of the scope and objectives.
 iii.   A summary of key personnel and sub-consultants who will be assigned to the project,
        including their relevant qualiﬁcations and experience.
 iv.    A suggested scope of services and a proposed project schedule, outlining the approach to
        achieving the project’s goals within the desired timeframe.

    3. Proposal Requirements and Contents

           A. Proposal Response Outline

Proposals must be limited to ten (10) pages and include:

  i.    Cover Letter: The bid shall have a cover letter indicating a Respondent’s willingness to enter
        into an agreement with the City. An officer of the Consultant who has the authority to
        commit the Consultant to the proposed project must sign this letter. This signature will
        indicate that the proposal is valid for a period of one hundred twenty (120) days from the
        date of submission. Bids will include the full name, legal status (corporation, state of
        incorporation, partnership, proprietorship, etc.), business address, email address, website
        address (if applicable), and phone number.
  ii.   Executive Summary: the executive summary should provide a brief overview of the
        Consultant’s approach, clearly highlighting any options or proposed alternatives. It should
        also identify any major requirements that the Consultant is unable to meet.
 iii.   Detailed Discussion: This section should be the core of the proposal and must include a
        speciﬁc, outline-form response to each section of this RFP. The outline should follow the
        order and numbering of the sections in the RFP. Any omission of a written response to items
        in this RFP will be interpreted by the Owner as an indication that the Consultant is unable to
        provide the requested service.

        The detailed discussion should cover the following:
           a. The Consultant’s and/or sub-consultants’ understanding of project requirements.
           b. The qualiﬁcations of key personnel and sub-consultants assigned to the project.
           c. The Consultant’s and sub-consultants’ experience with similar projects, including
               references.
           d. The suggested scope of services and project schedule.




                                                                                                     3
 iv.       Cost Proposal: The Consultant must provide a cost proposal that allows costs to be
           evaluated separately from other proposal criteria. The cost proposal should include the
           method for determining compensation for the required services, along with a not-to-exceed
           cost estimate.

              B. D. RFP Submittal Delivery

To be considered, proposals must be emailed to:

           City of Kearns
           Attention: Daniel Torres, Economic Development Manager
           dtorres@msd.utah.gov

Proposals must be received no later than Monday, September 30, 2024 at 4:00 pm (“Closing Date”).
The City assumes no responsibility for delayed or undelivered emailed submittals. Proposals which
are not emailed to the City by the above speciﬁed time and date will not be considered. If you do
not receive an email conﬁrming receipt, please text Daniel Torres at 385-226-2797.

       4. Project Timeline

              A. Project Schedule

The following schedule is the anticipated timeline of the project.

       -   RFP advertised on or before Tuesday, September 2, 2024.
       -   Questions due by email on Wednesday, September 18, 2024, at 4:00 pm. Answers to
           emailed questions will be shared with all interested parties.
       -   Proposals due by Monday, September 30, 2024, at 4:00 pm.
       -   Evaluation and Selection on or before Wednesday, October 16, 2024, at 4:00 pm.


       1. Qualiﬁcation/Proposal Information

           All qualiﬁcations must remain valid for at least ninety (90) days from the date of submission.
           The City reserves the right to consider modiﬁcations to any qualiﬁcations received at any
           time before the award is made, if such action is in the best interest of the City.




                                                                                                       4
   5. Project Scoring

       Proposals will be evaluated pursuant to the following weighted decision matrix:



        Criteria                                       Point Value


        Respondent’s understanding of and              Up to 25 Points
        responsiveness to the Scope of Work.


        Qualiﬁcations of the Consultant and any        Up to 25 Points
        additional staff. (Experience, past
        performance, and reputation.)


        Respondents demonstrated past                  Up to 20 Points
        experience with similar projects.


        Organization and approach                      Up to 20 Points


        Cost (not-to-exceed and hourly rates)          Up to 10 Points


        Total                                          Up to 100 Points



NOTE: In addition to addressing the speciﬁc criteria listed, each Consultant should provide a
detailed response to each requirement in this RFP as indicated in Section 2.1, Proposal Response
Outline.

   6. Scope of Work

           A. Items to be provided by the City
                   i. City Ordinances related to impact fees, including the most recently
                      approved Fee Schedule.
                  ii. Existing capital infrastructure database information of every type associated
                      with impact fees within the City.
                 iii. Applicable information from any of the following substantially completed
                      master plans:
                          •       Parks & Trails, Storm Drainage, Roads, and information regarding
                                  other public facilities the City helps fund and for which the City
                                  may impose impact fees (e.g., police, and ﬁre)
                 iv. Any other requested requirements by Consultant if available.


                                                                                                   5
B. Services to be Provided by the Consultant

                                     -IFFP-

   i.   Review and recommend changes or approve the substantially completed
        existing facility master plans, including the established level of service
        standard. (Note: The Consultant will collaborate with City staff and any ﬁrms or
        organizations responsible for each facility master plan to accomplish this task.)
  ii.   Develop an IFFP for the following facilities: parks & trails, storm drainage, roads,
        and other public facilities the City funds for which the City may impose impact
        fees (e.g., police and ﬁre). The IFFP should:
            a. Establish a service standard
            b. Create an inventory of existing facilities
            c. Determine the method of ﬁnancing existing facilities
            d. Assess excess capacity
            e. Identify additional facilities needed at present
            f. Determine the method of ﬁnancing needed facilities
 iii.   Ensure that the resulting IFFP, associated rate schedule, and regulatory
        ordinances comply with all applicable State and Federal laws, including Title 11,
        Chapter 36 of the Utah Code “Impact Fees Act.”
 iv.    Provide the City with an IFFP that addresses a ﬁve-year planning window for
        impact fee calculations and a 10-year planning window for capital facilities
        planning, with accompanying fee increase proposals—based on current growth
        trends.
  v.    Develop speciﬁc goals, objectives, and policies that will integrate the
        recommendations from the previous sections into a comprehensive plan of
        action.
 vi.    Conduct regular coordination meetings with City staff and designated
        representatives to review progress and address any issues.
vii.    Provide options for Impact fee calculations based on industry standards.

                                    -Study-

viii.   Depending on the results of the IFFP, the City may request the Consultant to
        develop a Study. If directed by the City, the Consultant will use the IFFP as a
        framework and calculate a proposed impact fee schedule.
 ix.    In developing the Study, the Consultant will:
            a. review the City's current code, waiver and exemption requirements,
                study criteria and standards, etc.; and
            b. survey, collect, and map all assets necessary for impact fee calculation,
                including parks, trails, storm drainage, roads, and other public facilities
                the City funds and for which the City may impose impact fees (e.g.,
                police, and ﬁre), and compile the data into a GIS database.



                                                                                           6
              x.   The Study should:
                       a. Determine the proportionate share of costs directly attributable to new
                           development
                       b. Calculate credits for future contributions
                       c. Determine the maximum allowable impact fee
             xi.   Conduct a comparative analysis of relevant legislation, fees, and practices to
                   identify and propose the most current best practices and regional standards.
            xii.   Provide recommendations on ways the City can reduce, waive, or eliminate
                   impact fees related to moderate income housing as part of the moderate-
                   income housing element within the City’s general plan pursuant to Utah Code §
                   10-9a-403(2)(b)(iii)(L).

Present the completed IFFP and the Study, if requested by the City, for adoption by the City Council.

    7. Protected Information
          A. Conﬁdentiality

  i.    All responses, inquiries, and correspondence relating to this RFP and all reports, charts,
        displays, schedules, exhibits, and other documentation produced by a Consultant that is
        submitted to the City, as part of the proposal or otherwise may be considered public
        information under applicable law, including but not limited to the Government Records
        Access and Management Act, Title 63G, Chapter 2, Utah Code Annotated (“GRAMA”). The
        City generally considers proposals and all accompanying material to be public and subject
        to disclosure including the subsequent contract that may be executed between the City and
        Respondent.
  ii.   Any material considered by a Consultant to be proprietary must be accompanied by a
        written claim of conﬁdentiality and a concise written statement of reasons supporting the
        claim. Blanket claims that the entire RFP is conﬁdential will be denied. The City cannot
        guarantee that any information will be held conﬁdential. Under Utah Code Ann. Section
        63G-2-309 of GRAMA, if a Consultant makes a claim of conﬁdentiality, the City, upon
        receipt of a request for disclosure, will determine whether the material should be classiﬁed
        as public or protected, and will notify the Consultant of such determination. The Consultant
        is entitled under GRAMA to appeal an adverse determination. The City is not obligated to
        notify the Consultant of a request, and will not consider a claim of conﬁdentiality, unless
        the Respondent’s claim of conﬁdentiality is made in a timely basis and in accordance with
        GRAMA.

           B. Additional Considerations

  i.    Failure to Read. Failure to read the Request for Proposals and these instructions will be at a
        Respondent’s own risk.
  ii.   Cost of Developing Qualiﬁcations/Proposals. All costs related to the preparation of the
        qualiﬁcations/proposals and any related activities are the sole responsibility of the
        Respondent. The City assumes no liability for any costs incurred by Consultant(s)



                                                                                                     7
        throughout the entire selection process, including prior to selection and issuance of a
        contract.
 iii.   Discussions with Respondents. The City reserves the right to enter into discussions with the
        Consultant (s) determined to be reasonably susceptible of being selected for award, or to
        enter into exclusive discussions with a Consultant whose proposal is deemed most
        advantageous, whichever is in the City’s best interest, for the purpose of negotiation. If
        exclusive negotiations are conducted and an agreement is not reached, the City reserves
        the right to enter into negotiations with the next highest ranked Consultant without the need
        to repeat the formal solicitation process.
 iv.    Equal Opportunity. The City will make every effort to ensure that all Respondents are treated
        fairly and equally throughout the entire advertisement, review, and selection process. The
        procedures established herein are designed to give all parties reasonable access to the
        same basic information. The City’s policy, subject to federal, State, and local procurement
        laws, is to provide reasonable attempts to support each Respondent’s business by
        purchasing goods and services through local Respondents and service providers.
  v.    Proposal Ownership. All proposals, including attachments, supplementary materials,
        addenda, etc., shall become the property of the City and will not be returned to each
        Respondent.
 vi.    Final Authorization. The City intends to eventually contract with the Consultant (s) whose
        proposal is deemed most advantageous in experience, qualiﬁcations, price, and other
        factors considered in accordance with the weighted decision matrix described above. The
        City does not necessarily intend to award a contract solely on the basis of any response
        made to this request or otherwise pay for any information solicited or obtained during the
        RFP process. Final authorization of an accepted bid will be provided by the Kearns City
        Council after they have had an opportunity to review the recommendations. It is expected
        that the winning bidder will be selected on or before Wednesday, October 16, 2024, at 4:00
        pm.
vii.    Rejection of Proposals. The City reserves the right to reject any or all proposals received and
        disqualify incomplete or late proposals. Proposals lacking required information will not be
        considered. Furthermore, the City shall have the right to waive any informality or
        technicality in proposals received when in the best interest of the City. No proposal shall be
        accepted from, or contract awarded to, any person, ﬁrm or corporation that is in arrears to
        the City for any obligation. Consultant (s) may be required to submit satisfactory evidence
        that they have the necessary ﬁnancial resources to perform and complete the work outlined
        in this RFP.
viii.   Kearns’s Best Interest. The City reserves the right to take any steps deemed necessary to act
        in the City’s best interest.
 ix.    Proposal Term. Proposals shall be good for one hundred and twenty (120) days from the
        Closing Date.
  x.    Reservation of Rights. The City reserves the right to cancel or modify the terms of this RFP
        and/or the project at any time and for any reason preceding the contract award and reserves
        the right to accept or reject any or all proposals submitted pursuant to this request for
        proposals. The City will provide each Consultant with written notice of any cancellation
        and/or modiﬁcation.


                                                                                                     8
