KEARNS METRO TOWNSEEP

RESOLUTION NO. ft eM DATED: © kd
A RESOLUTION APPROVING AND ENTERING INTO AN AMENDED AND RESTATED
AGREEMENT CREATING THE UTAH LOCAL GOVERNMENTS TRUST.

WHEREAS, the Kearns Metro Township and other Utah cities, towns, counties, and other
governmental entities created and established a political subdivisions and entity known as

the Utah Local Governments Trust; and

WHEREAS, the Kearns Metro Township, desired to participate in creating and establishing an
entity to provide assistance, advice, counsel, and casualiy, property and liability insurance, and
benefits related to the purposes of the Utah Local Governments Trust; and

WHEREAS, the Kearns Metro Township has appointed Paul 1. Ashton as its attorney to review
and approve the form of the amended and restated agreement.

NOW THEREFORE, the attached Interlocal Agreement Amending and Restating the Interlocal
Apreement creating Utah Local Governments Trust is hereby entered into, approved, ratified,

STEVEN A. PERRY, CHAIR

ATTEST: APPROVED AS TO FORM:
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
VOTING

COUNCILMEMBER BUSH . RY —

COUNCILMEMBER PETERSON pee

COUNCILMEMBER SCHAEFFER é wy .

COUNCILMEMBER SNOW here

UTAH LOCAL GOVERNMENTS TRUST
Or tt pret - a‘ J a ‘
Executive Director of Utah Local Govemmen is ‘Trust
Name of Public Agency
a a
She 4 rid | ie
Signature of Person Authorized to Bind This Agreement
Say ace z |
Approved as to form
es f Uueg Wher
Attorney
3/06 14

‘The proposed term sheet will be govemed by your Trust policy terms and conditions. This quote is
valid for 30 days from 2/1/17.
i. Insured: Kearns Metro Township
2. Coverage Type: Liability and Workers Compensation
3. Liability Term: 2/15/17 to 1/1/20, annual anniversary at 1/1/18 and 1/1/19
4. Workers Compensation Term: 2/15/17 to 1/1/20, annual anniversary at 1/1/18 and 1/1/49
5. 2017 Liability Premium: $13,553 ($5 Million Limit)
6, 2017 Workers Compensation Premium: $492
7, 3year rate guarantee applies to lability program, subject to terms of rate guarantee
8. Kearns Metro Township retains the right to any rate reductions offered by the Trust during
policy term
Order to 2 coverage:
Approved By Date
vy) Eee og ‘ Vy ak a
Name, Title
Federal Tax iD# Unemployment ID#
f
Sy 2 AX, A pat tae ! 2 -.
Ager h thes ae 2.1.17
Steven A. Hansen CEO Date
801.396.6400 SO0.748.4440  601.936,.0500 utabfirast.pow

AMENDED AND RESTATED INTERLOCAL, AGRERKMENT CREATING THE
UTAH LOCAL GOVERNMENTS TRUST
ARTICLE |
NAME
#91: The name of the governmental eitity created pursuant to this Interlocal
Agreement is the Utah Local Governments Trust (hereinatier “the Trust”).
ARTICLE H
PURPOSES
Ball The purposes of this Agreement and the entity created pursuant thereto are:
miele PERSONAL BENEFITS, To enable Utah cities, towns, counties, and other
special districis of local governments to form a governmental entity to provide a comprehensive
and complete program of hospital, medical, dental, disability, life, and other personal benefit
plans and programs for units of local governments within the State of Utah.
ee Ee CASUALTY-PROPERTY,. To enable units of local governments to provide a
comprehensive and complete program of casualty, property, marine, liability, and other
msurance plans or programs required or desirable to protect local governments’ property and
assets and elected and appointed officials and employees from personal liabi lity.

2.1.3. FUNDS. To create funds from revenues, premiums, and monies which funds
Shall at all times belong to the participating units of local governments to pay claims of the local
units of government according to any plan, program, or contract between the Trust and the
participating unit of local government or to purchase the insurance requested by the participating
umt of local government.

2.1.4, GENERAL POWERS, To admunister, insure, reimsure, fund or self fund,
indemnify, or perform any other act necessary to provide or administer any plan or program
uccessary or desirable to give effect to this Agreement.

mall §, SINGLE ENTITY. To enable local governments to act as a single entity to
provide personal, casualty, property, marine, lability, or other insurance to participating units of
local government.

2.1.6. ADVISOR TO LOCAL GOVERNMENTS. To act as an advisor and counsel

to units of local government regarding their insurance needs, obligations, risks, and benefit plans.
Bids TRUST NOT REQUIRED TO PROVIDE COV ERAGES. Nothing in this

Agreement shall require the Trust to offer or provide any or all of the plans or programs

authorized by this Agreement.

3/06 I

eae AUTHORITY. The Trust hereby is granted and authorized to perform and do
all acts necessary or convenient and to render all services contemplated and engage im such
governmental and proprietary functions, as are authorized or contemplated by Sections 11-[3~-
104 et seq., 10-3-1103, and 63-30d-80] et seq., Utah Code Annotated 1953, io carry out the
purposes and intent of this Agreement.

ARTICLE Tl
DEFINITIONS

SA. As used in this Interlocal Cooperation Agreement:

Jyh LOCAL GOVERNMENTS. “Local governments” means public agency as
used in the Interlocal Cooperation Act and includes any county, city, town, special district, or
combination thereof: it specifically includes any agency or entity created pursuant to the Utah
Interlocal Cooperation Act, Section 1{-13-101 et seq., Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended.

SAP PROPERTY INSURANCE. The definition of “property insurance” set forth
in Section 31A-1-301, Utah Code Annotated 1953, is hereby incorporated by reference.

3.1.3. BOND. “Bond” means a faithful performance bond or indemnification bond
or any other bond required by any Utah law.

3.1.4, INLAND MARINE. The definition of “inland marine” insurance set forth in
Section 31A-1-301, Utah Code Annotated 1953, is hereby incorporated by reference.

3.1.4. WORKERS’ COMPENSATION. “Workers’ compensation” means any form
of workers’ compensation permitted or required by the laws of the State of Utah or the laws of
the United States.

3.1.6, UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION. “Unemployment compensation”
means any form of unemployment compensation permitted or required by the laws of the State
of Utah or the laws of the United Siates.

Fodade VEHICLE LIABILITY INSURANCE. The definition of “vehicle lability
insurance” set forth in Section 31A-1-301, Utah Code Annotated 1953, is hereby incorporated by
reference.

3.1.8, SURETY INSURANCE. The definition of “surety insurance” set forth in
Section 31 A-1-301, Utah Code Annotated 1953 is hereby incorporated by reference.

3.4.9. ADMINISTRATIVE BOARD, “Administrative board” means the
administering body created by this Agreement io operate and administer the Trust and the
insurance programs offered by the Trust,

3.1.10. MEMBER. “Member” means any city, county, town, or other unit of local
government that participates in one or more plans or programs offered by the Trust. A unit of
3/06 2

local government need not have executed this Interlocal Agreement or Resolution to be a
member. Any unit of local government that stops participating in the plans or programs offered
by the Trust, shall not be a member.

ee CASUALTY INSURANCE. ‘The definition of “ casualty insurance” (liability
insurance) set forth in Section 3] A-1-301, Utah Code Annotated 1953, is hereby incorporated by
reference.

3.1.12, UNIT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. “Unit of local government” means any
city, County, town, special district, or any other entity which is a political subdivision of the
State of Utah,

3.1.13. PERSONAL INSURANCE OR PERSONAL BENEFITS. “Personal
insurance” or “personal benefits” means life, disability, hospital, medical and dental msurance or
benefits, unemployment or workers’ compensation.

3.1.14. PERSON. “Person” means any individual, company, partnership,
corporation, municipal corporation, or any business entity,

3.1.15 INSURANCE, “Insurance” means casualty liability and personal insurance.
ARTICLE 1V
DURATION
4,1. EXTENSION, This Agreement shall be fora period of 50 years, but may be
extended by the members,
4,2. WITHDRAWAL. Nothing in this Article shall prevent any local government
irom withdrawing from the ‘Trust.
4.3, TERMINATION IF VOID. This Agreement shall terminate if it is found to
exist entirely in violation of the law,
ARTICLE V
TRUST FUNDS
B45 FUNDS PROPERTY OF UNITS OF GOVERNMENTS. All premiums,
payments, and funds received, held, or administered by the Trust as herein provided shall be and
remam the property and assets of the units of local government which create or participate in the
Trust program or programs accordi ng to the terms of this Agreement, except that the funds of the
Trust shall become the property of the person to whom the funds are paid when paid according to
this Agreement, benefit or insurance plans, and programs authorized by the administrative board.
a; INTERNAL REVENUE CODE COMPLIAN CE. In accordance with Section
115 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, any income derived trom the
investments or operations of the Trust shall accrue to ihe units of local government participating
3/06 3

in the Trust. None of the assets, property, funds, or revenues held by the Trust shall ever be
deemed to or become the property of the Trust.

5:3: UNRESTRICTED RIGHT TO PROPORTIONATE SHARE OF INCOME,

Bach unit of local government participating im the Trust shall have the unrestricted right to
withdraw its proportionate share (as defined in Section 12.3.) of the mcome derived from the
investments or operations of the Trust. However, to the extent the income so derived is needed
to provide reserves for potential claims against programs that the Trust has elected to reinsure or
self-insure (under authority of Article VJ), participating units of local governments agree to defer
ihe withdrawal of that portion of the income so needed until such time as the adiministrative
board determines using actuarially sound insurance accounting principles that such withdrawal
will not jeopardize the financial stability of Trust programs.

5.4. FUNDS TO BE USED TO PURCHASE OR PROVIDE COVERAGE. The
Jocal governments hereby authorize and direct the administrative board to do all things necessary
and proper and to use the payments or contributions received by the Trust fo purchase and
maintain in force such policy or policies of imsurance as they in their sole discretion shail
determine to be in the best interest of the members and the employces of the members; or on an
actuarially sound basis, to use such funds to establish a program or programs of self-insurance,
reinsurance, or co-insurance.

ARTICLE V1
MANAGEMENT AND ALLOCATION OF FUNDS,
PURCHASE OF INSURANCE, BONDS, REINSURANCE, SELF-PUNDING

6.1. LICENSED CARRIER REQUIRED. If casualty insurance or personal
insurance policies are purchased, it shall be from a licensed insurance carrier, Policies may be
purchased for one or more of the casualty insurance or personal insurance programs offered by
the Trust from one or several carriers; or the Trust may reinsure or sel/-insure one or more of the
programs and purchase the casualty msuranice or personal insurance from a carrier for the
remaining programs. Where the Trust purchases insurance or personal insurance from a carrier,
the Trust shall be the policyholder. The amount of casualty insurance, personal insurance, and
benefits shall be such as the administrative board may determine subject to securing a policy or
policies from one or more carriers or bond companies able to provide the benefits from the
premium paid.

6.2, TRUST TO ACT AS POLICYHOLDER. The administrative board may
apply for such insurance policies or group msurance or personal insurance or group personal
insurance in its name as policyholder or in the names of the participating members and may use
the fund to pay for and accept and hold as pari of the fund the policy or policies insured to the
‘Trust in its name as policyholder,

6.3, TERMS OF POLICY. The administrative board may agree with an insurer of
any policy or policies issued for the purposes of this Agreement on waiting period, definitions of
full-time employment and all other necessary or desirable provisions, including the eligibility of
3/06 t

employees; or, in the case of self-insurance, the local government and administrative board may
provide specifically such terms and conditions.
6.4, SEPARATE ACCOUNT REQUIRED. The Trust Board shall creaic separate
funds and accounts for each of the following:
A. Hospital, medical, aud dental:
b, Disability;
3, Life (except where part of the hospital and medical plan) whether or not
denial is included;
D. Pidelity and fiduciary;
Ks. Casualty, marine, property, and liability.
The assets of each fund shall not be co-mingled with those of another fund,
vor Shall it be subject to attachment, claims, or payment of damages in any other fund. Where a
participating unit of local government clects to participate in Groups A, B, and C, or any
combination of these groups, the Trust may treat the account as participating in the fund for
which a majority of the premium is paid, One fimd may make loans io another.

6.5. FUND MANAGEMENT, With respect to each fund, the administrative board
shall use and apply each fund:

6.5.1, GENERAL ADMINISTRATION. To pay or provide for the payment of all
reasonable and necessary expenses of collecting the local governments’ contributions and
administering the affairs of each fund, including, but without limitation, ail expenses which may
be incurred in connection with each fund, the employment of such administrative, legal, expert,
and clerical assistance, the leasi ng of such premises and the purchase or lease of such materials,
supplies, and equipment as the administrative board, in its discretion, finds necessary or
appropriate in the perforrmance of its duties.

6.5.2. PAYMENT OF PREMIUMS. To pay or provide for the payment of
premiums due from local governments on the policy or policies, when such premiums shall
become due; but the administrative board shall not use the fund to maintain in force any
insurance for the account of any local government that is in default oF payment of contributions
to the fund.

6.5.3. RESERVES. To establish and accumulate 48 part of the fund an adequate
reserve which the administrative board shall deem advisable to carry out the purposes of this
Agreement,

6.5.4, REFUNDS. To refund premiums, payments, or contributions from local
governments for which insurance may not be purchased for any reason, but if a unit of local
3/06 5

government withdraws from the Trust for any reason, ihe Trust shall be under no obligation to
refund any premium, payment, or contribution of the local government if insurance has been
purchased for the local government.

6.6, GENERAL OPERATING ACCOUNT. The administrative board may
establish a general operating account or fund and may transfer to that account or fund a specified
percentage of revenues received in each separate fund for the purpose of establishing a general.
operating fund or account to administer the general provision of the Agreement.

6.7, DEPOSITORIES-INVESTMENTS. All premiums, contributions, and monies
received by the Trust hereunder as part of the fund or funds shall be deposited by it in such bank
or banks as the administrative board may designate for that purpose, and all withdrawals of
monies from such bank or banks shall be made only by check signed by a person or persons
authorized by the administrative board to sign and countersign but no bank shall be elected as a
depository of the funds of the Trust that is not a member of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation or is not supervised and insured by an instrumentality of the United States
Government,

6.8. BOND REQUIRED. All officers and employces of the Trust who are
authorized to sign or countersign checks or who otherwise may handle monies or other property
of the Trust shall be bonded.

6.9. DIVIDENDS, EXPERIENCE RATING. Anything contained in this
Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the administrative board may agree with the insurer
or insurers for the combination of financial experiences, for dividend purposes, of policies issued
to the administrative board pursuant to this Agreement and of policies not so issued with insured
employees of local governments that are insured under this Agreement. The administrative
board may agree with the insurers and to provide for a centralized administration of all policies
or may administer the programs themselves in any manner deemed advisable by the
administrative board.

ARTICLE Vil
LOCAL GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTIONS
TO THE TRUST

7.1. PERSONAL INSURANCE OR BENEFITS. On application and acceptance
by the administrative board or the Executive Director, each local government shall pay to the
Trust a sum determined by the administrative board to participate in any personal insuraiice or
self-funded benefit program offered by the Trust. Each local government shall pay to the Trust
on such day of each month as determined by the administrative board for all the local
governments, such member’s contributions for personal insurance when and as the
administrative board shall deem necessary to pay the premium due, together with that member's
fair share of expenses on account of the personal insurance purchased for such local governments
but all local government payments shall be credited against premiums and shares of expenses
due from local governments.

3/06 6

7.2. CASUALTY AND LIABILITY INSURANCE, On application and
acceptance by the administrative board or the Executive Director, each local government shall
pay to the Trust a sum determined by the adminisirative board {6 participate in any casualty or
lability insurance or self-funded casualty or liability program offered by the Trust. Hach local
government shall pay to the Trust on such day of each month as determined by the administrative
board for the local governments, such member's contributions for insurance when and as the
administrative board shall deem becessary to pay the premium due, together with that member’s
fair share of expenses on account of the insurance purchased for such local governments but all
local government payments shall be credited against premiums and shares of expenses due from
local governments.

ARTICLE VIB
PARTICIPATION OF LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
IN THE ASSOCIATION
8.1. PERSONAL INSURANCE. ‘The employees of a unit of local government
that make application to the administrative board shall, on approval of the application and
payment of the premium established by the administrative board, become insured by the Trust
under the policy or policies of the Trust and shall participate in the Trust for such personal
insurance, provided the employee satisfies the requirements for participation in such persona]
insurance as may be established by the personal insurance carrier or carriers of the policy or
policies under which such insurance is offered: or, under such requirements as the administrative
board may establish for participation in any self-funded personal benefit plan or program. A
local government’s participation in the Trust personal insurance program shall commence on the
date set by the Board. The personal insurance carrier of the policy or policies, if any, shall at all
times be kept informed by the administrative board of the local governments that participate in
the Trust personal insurance, as well as the names of their employees, A local government may
participate in the personal insurance program on approval of the application and payment of the
premium. The local government need not execute this Agreement io participate, but must
subscribe to the personal insurance or benefits to be provided pursuant to this Agreement by
resolution, ordinance, or contract.

8.2. CASUALTY AND LIABILITY INSURANCE. A unit of local government
that makes application to (he administrative board shall, on approval of the application and
payment of the premium established by the administrative board, become insured by the Trust
under the policy or policies of the Trust and shall participate in the Trust for such insurance,
provided the unit of local government satisfies the requirements for participation in such casualty
insurance as may be established by the insurance carrier or carriers of the policy of policies
under which such insurance is offered: or, under such requirements as the administrative board
may establish for participation in any self-funded casualty program. A local government’s
participation in the Trust insurance program shall comimence on the date set by the
administrative board. The insurance cartier of the policy or policies, if any, shall at all times be
kept informed by the administrative board of the local governments that participate in the Trust
insurance, A local government may participate in the casualty or liability insurance program on
approval of the application and payment of the premium. The local government need not

3/06 7

execute this Agreement to participate, but must subscribe to the insurance or benefits to be
provided pursuant to this Agreement by resolution, ordinance, or contract.

8.3. TERMINATION OF QUALIFICATIONS. A local government shall cease to
qualify for participation in the Trust for any insurance or benefit plan when it fails to make ifs
contribution as provided in Article V1). for the insurance on the date when due or within the
period of time allowed by the administrative board for the payment thereof; or ifa local
government shall cease to qualify under or by reason of any state or federal law; or when the
local government fails to comply with the rules and yegulations made by the adminisirative board
from time to time with respect to the administration of the insurance Trust fund or funds;
including, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the method and accuracy of local
government’s reports, the effective date of insurance of its employees, the discontinuance of
insurance of its employees, premiums due, or any and all other facts which the administrative
board deems advisable to assure a sound administration of the msurance programs offered by the
Trust.

8.4. TERMINATION OF PARTICIPATION. When in accordance with the
provisions of this Article VILL, a local government ceases to qualify for participation in the Trust
for the insurance provided under the policy or policies, the administrative board shall, if insured
by a carrier, forthwith give notice thereof to the insurance carrier of the policy or policies under
which such insurance is provided, and such policy or policies and participation of the local
government in the ‘Trust shall terminate to such extent and at such time as the insurance
terminates. In such event the Trust shall have no further liability to local government or its
employees whose participation and insurance have terminated.

ARTICLE 1X
RETURN OF MONIES RECEIVED FROM PERSONS
NOT QUALIFYING AS A LOCAL GOVERNMENT AS
DEFINED IN THIS AGREEMENT

A Should any monies be received by the Trust for the purpose specttied in
Article Hl of this Agreement from any local government failing to satisfy the requirements for
participation in the Trust, or from any local government whose employees do not become
insured under the policy or policies, such monies shall be returned, and there shall be no further
obligations whatsoever in connection therewith.

ARTICLE X.
ADMINISTRATION OF THE TRUST
10.5. ADMINISTRATIVE BOARD. The Trast shall be governed and admin stered
by an administrative board composed of at least seven officials representing participating
Members. The administrative board may from time to time, on a two-thirds vote of the
administrative board, increase the number of members on the administrative board without
amending this Agreement, but the number shall not exceed J 45.
3/06 8

TOLL. CITIES AND TOWNS. Up to four members of the administrative board shall
be elected officials from participating cities and towns unless the number of participatmg cities
and towns is Jess than four, in which case the minimum number of elected officials from cities
and towns on the administrative board shall be reduced to the number of participating cities and
towns. ‘The terms of the municipal administrative board members shall be four years, but the
terms shall be staggered so that one position is filled each year. L'a municipal member of the
administrative board ceases to be an elected official, the remaining municipal members shall
appoint a person to serve until the next election. At the next election a municipal elected official
shall be elected to fill the remainder of the term.

10.1.2. COUNTIES. Up to three members of the administrative board shall be
elected officials from participating counties unless the number of participating counties is less
than three, in which case the minimum number of elected officials from counties on the
administrative board shall be reduced to the number of participating counties. The terms of the
county administrative board members ghalf be four years, but the terms shall be staggered so that

One position is filled each year. Ifa county member of the administrative board ceases to be an
clected official, the remaining county members shall appoint a person to serve until the next
election. At the next election a county clecied official shall be elected to fill the remainder of the
term,

10.1.3, SPECIAL DISTRICTS. U p to three members of the administrative board
shall be elected or appointed officials from participating special districts unless the number of
participating special district is less than three, in which ease the minimum number of officials
from special districis on the administrative board shall be reduced io the number of participating
special districts. The terms of the special district administrative board members shall be four
years, but the terms shall be staggered so that one position is filled each year. Ifa special district
member of the administrative board ceases to be an official of a district, the remaining special
district members shall appoint a person to serve until the next election. At the next election a
special district elected or appointed official shall be elected io fill the remainder of the term.

10.1.4 APPOINTED OFFICIALS. The elecied officials of the administrative board
may appomt additional members to serve on the board, bui the number of appointed board
members shall not exceed one third of the total board membership. Any vacancy in the
apponited member positions shal! be filled by the remaining board members. Terms may be
staggered as the board deems appropriate.

10.2. RESIGNATION. A member of the administrative board may resign and
become and remain fully discharged from all further duty or responsibility hereunder upon
giving 30 days notice in writin g to the remaining members, or such shorter notice as the
remaining members may accept as sufficient, in which notice there shall be stated a date and
such resignation shall take effect on the date specified in the notice, unless a successor member
shall effect immediately upon the appointment of such successor member.

3/06 9

proposed amendment and the method by which such right may be exercised. The amendment
shall not be effective if more than 50 percent of the members appear personally or provide
written objection to the proposed amendment prior to the time of the mecting.

13.3. RESTRICTIONS ON RIGHT TO AMEND. Sections 5.1. 5,3., 12.3., and
{3.5, shall not be amended except with the unanimous concurrence of all members and local
governments entitled to the finds of or refunds or payments from the Trust.

13.4. NOTICE OF AMENDMENT, After an amendment has been approved by the
members or Trust board, notice shall be given to all members of the amendment together with a
statement of the effective date of the amendment which shall be at least 30 days after the date of
ihe meeting at which the amendment was approved.

13.5, MEMBERS SUBJECT TO CONTINGENT ASSESSMENT. (Reserved.)

13.6, CONSENT REQUIRED FOR OTHER ASSESSMENT. (Reserved.)

ARTICLE XIV
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

14.1, RECORDS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT TO BE FURNISHED. Local
govermments shall furnish to the administrative board such records and any other information as
the administrative board or the insurance carrier of the policy or policies may require in
connection with the administration of the Trust. The insurance carrier shall have the right to
audit all records of the Trust or local governments pertaining to the insurance provided by the
carrier,

14.2, THIRD PARTY CLAIMS AGAINST TRUST FUNDS. Unless otherwise
specifically provided in a written agreement between a unit of local government and the Trust,
no local government nor any other person claiming by or through such employee by reason of
having been named a beneficiary in a certificate or otherwise, shal] have any claim against the
monies or properties of the Trust, and the interests of such employees, beneficiaries, and other
persons claiming through them shall be limited to those specified in the policy or policies.

14.3 SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO WORKERS’® COMPENSATION
COVERAGE. For each member that chooses to participate in the Workers’ Compensation
insurance program through the Trust, the Trust shall pay any workers’ compensation liabilities
incurred during the period of participation and membership. ‘The member’s bankruptcy
insolvency or withdrawal from the Trust shal] not relieve the Trust of such workers"
compensation liability, nor shall bankruptcy, insolvency or cessation of the Trust relieve the
member of its ultimate liability to pay the worker’s compensation claims of the member’s
employees.

14.4. SUPERSEDES PRIOR AGREEMENT. This Agreement supersedes and
replaces all previous Interlocal Agreements creating or establishing the Utah Local Governments
Trust,

3/06 13

oul os 2017 Insurance Proposal
: a DECEMBER 28, 2016
UTAH LOCAL GOVERNMENTS TRUST
801.936.6400 800.748.4440 801.936.0300 utahtrust.gov

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Organization csessossceeessssssuesasssecessssesenseueesonsestivsssnsuensseesesesrenescenssteusiansenrseeeenssseaeses OCHOM 1
Coverage + cccucen-esyy sennernceananenacavanceseserueghhlybb itis Bai seonrs Ohi WCRI CH PONY
The Trust Experience snes voieeecsctstipwasakatdtet pane badistig Gata nO Aa eae SD
Proposed Ti RUIAAR =: sss ceavsnncesccacasiicanavinereseesnowiades teri@veaseoisicicooneen sass WeNeee/ unl SEC NEIDS
Summary & References + suasakosssacesietacw sul aleannsganeinencnsink ev 5Sasel went HEM bai GA CAE gasps ONDE OS

(1 9s.) UTAH LOCAL GOVERNMENTS TRUST

December 28, 2016
Dear Insurance Committee,
The Utah Local Governments Trust is pleased to provide the enclosed insurance proposal for
Kearns Metro Township. The Trust has insuring relationships with over 500 of Utah’s local
governments, including 88% of Utah’s cities and towns. We encourage members and
prospects to bid their programs regularly, and unlike competitors, Trust members can exit
the pool without restrictive notice requirements or threat of penalty. Still, our member
retention exceeds 99% for 8 years run ning.

As you evaluate your options, we invite you to join dozens of public officials, executives,
attorneys and others who have closely examined our coverage, service and price, and elected
the Trust as their partner.

Best regards,

Greg Baumgartner

Account Executive

801.698.4843 | greg@utahtrust.gov

801.396.6400 800.748.4440 801.936.0300 utahtrust.pov

_ SECTION! ORGANIZATION _—SsCc.
The Utah Local Governments Trust was organized in 1974 as a Public Agency Insurance
Mutual under the Interlocal Cooperative Act (Utah Code § 11-13-102), This code was
enacted in response to commercial insurance carriers refusing coverage to public agencies.
Formed through an Interlocal Agreement, the Trust is now the principle carrier for Utah’s
cities, counties and districts.
The Trust currently has assets of $93.4 million, member-owned equity in excess of $49.4
million, and several of the strongest reinsurance partners in the world. These resources
provide financial strength, security, rate stabilization, and protection from catastrophic loss.
A recent study conducted by AON Risk Solutions, Actuarial and Analytics Practice found the
Trust’s expense ratios to be 29% less than the top 25 commercial carriers and 35% less than
the industry overall. As a result, Trust members benefit from lower costs, broad policy terms,
specialized training, dividends, and ownership in Utah's premier governmental insurance
pool.

Expense Ratio Comparison

RS RE a ees Gr AbD oar RGR a See a
Industry @ Trust
‘This praposal is for illustration purposes anly. Coverage and limits governed by policy terms and conditions, subject to uidenuriting and loss verification.

Greg Baumgartner, MBA, CIC
Account Executive
Quotes
Coverage Analysis
Policy Review
, ee go Se
Jill Johnson, ACS, CISR
Doug Folsom, CPSi, ARM-P Member Advocate
Loss Prevention
Risk A : Service
‘ - Sasreres : Applications
Si eh neue eS Certiticates of Insurance
On-site Training << £ER e,
Policies & Procedures af .
ese a
Chris Rozelle, CCLA, LPCS
Claims Manager
Reporting
Claims Management
Data Analysis
This proposal is for ustration puxposes only. Coverage and limits governed by policy ternis and conditions, subject to underwriting and toss verification,

| SECTION2 COVERAGE __sa.
Comprehensive liability = = == +$$j{sUsl
Public Entity Liability |
_- General
|- Errors & Omissions | HP, H00,900
i
Declaratory / Injunctive Relief / Land Use Defense | $25,000 / $50,000 i
atatfeasarice Defense | $10,000 / $20,000 |
this proposal is for illustration purposes only, Coverage und limits gaverned by palicy terms and conditions, subject to underwriting and loss verification,

The Trust is backed by the strongest reinsurance partners in the world. This ensures
continued financial solvency and the ability to pay claims in the event of catastrophic loss,
| __Feinsurance Partners -AMBest Ratings  —
Munich Reinsurance America | Hartford Steam Boiler Insurance |
A+ (Superior) A++ (Superior)
indian Harbor Insurance Company Homeland Insurance Company of New York
A (Excellent) A (Excellent)
Safety National Casualty Company Houston Casualty Company i
A+ (Superior) i A+ (Superior) i
ACE - Illinois Union Insurance Company i Interstate Fire & Casualty Company
A++ (Superior) A (Excellent) |
ACE European Group Limited i ironshore Specialty Insurance Company
A++ (Superior) A (Excelient) |
Arch Speciality Insurance Company Lancashire Insurance Company
At (Superior) A (Excellent)
Aspen Specialty Insurance Lexington Insurance Company |
A (Excellent) | A (Excellent) i
| Atain Specialty Insurance Company | Liberty Surplus Insurance |
| A (Excellent) A (Excellent)
| Berkshire Hathaway Specialty | Lioyd’s of London |
A (Excellent) | A (Excellent) |
Endurance America Specialty Maxum Indemnity Company
A (Excellent) A- (Excellent)
Endurance Worldwide Insurance Limited Partner Re Ireland Insurance
A (Excellent) A+ (Superior)
Essex Insurance Company | QBE Speciaity Insurance Company
| A (Excellent) | A (Excellent)
Hallmark Specialty Insurance Company RSUI indemnity Company |
A> (Excellent) A+ (Superior) |
meneninaneteh 44 ie Namt ene eioaennet partinse mR atm tne on pore arate Cinerattammaseress ays te apd bokainl—erwetnlaen seid ttn tnt wey Herter rsd vb aeires ee ene - piendadbhaehiiehiiestentatt: lene ee ee OTE ee 1 et att me Hw mn et 4
Scottsdale Surplus Lines Insurance Steadfast Insurance Company i
A+ (Superior) A+ (Superior)
| Tokio Marine Specialty United States Fire Insurance Company
| A++ (Superior) | A (Excellent)
| Westport Insurance Company | XL Insurance America
| A+ (Superior) | A (Excellent)
‘This proposal is for illustration purposes oniy, Coverage and limits governed by policy terms and conditions, subject to underwriting ancl loss verification,

The Trust's Loss Prevention team provides regional and on-site trainings on a variety of
government-specific topics to reduce claims and promote a culture of safety.
PRAINING & WEBINARS
Toolbox Safety Talks Driver Safety and Fleet Management
Law Enforcement Liability Building a Culture of Safety
OSHA Compliance Best Practices and Accountability
Parks and Recreation Liability Human Resources
Land Use ...and more!
UTAH LOCAL GOVERNMENTS TRUST
www.utahtrust.gov/training-events
Additional Training Topics
LEXIPOL Policy Update Responding to Emergencies / CPR
HAZWOPER Trenching and Shoring
ADA / FMLA Lockout / Tagout
Fire Prevention / Electrical Safety Incident Investigation
Sewer Summit Ergonomics / Strain Prevention
Firefighter Summit Hazard Communication
Harassment and Discrimination Confined Space Entry
‘his proposal is for illustration purposes only, Coverage and limits goveriied by policy terms and conditions, subject to undenuriting and loss verification.

Developing and implementing an Outward Mindset
In partnership with Utah Local Governments Trust
Results are driven by strategically aligned behaviors, which is why organizations devote so much
time and so many resources trying to encourage beneficial behaviors in their em ployees. However,
behavior itself is driven by something else—by the underlying mindsets in the organization.
Organizations populated by people who have more or less the same mindset as they’ve always had
will continue to produce more or less the same results as they've always produced. Attempts to
improve behavior alone can produce marginal improvements, but breakthrough results require a
change in mindset. This is Arbinger’s work: changing mindset. Specifically, helping individuals,
teams, and organizations to change from inward mindset orientations to outward mindset
orientations. The Trust believes that developing outward mindset has a direct impact on our pool.
When acting from an inward mindset (the Box), people focus on themselves and their own objectives.
They want others to behave in ways that will further those objectives. They focus on what they
themselves do and measure their success by what they themselves accomplish,
When acting from an outward mindset, on the other hand, people work to help others be successful —
their customers, for example, their coworkers, their managers, and their direct reports. They focus on
their impact on what others are trying to do and measure their success in terms of what others are
able to accomplish as a results of their efforts.
{n this workshop we will explore in detail how it is that we can end up in an inward mindset, the
implications of that in our work, and the impact on others. We will also leverage a framework that
will guide us to work in an outward mindset. As your partner, the Utah Local Governments Trust is
pleased to provide this training free of charge to members. Registration is limited, call 801 936-6400.
4-Hours Developing an Outward Mindset
February 10, 2016 &:30a - 1:00p
August 10, 2016 8:30a - 1:00p
a"Day: Developing & Implementing an Outward Mindset
May 11-12, 2016 8:00a - 4:30p Teucesonilas
November 16-17,2016 8:00a- 4: no Miveiade
NN eee SAS, SOURS LEADERSHIPno OUTWARD
SELEDECERTION MOEA ieee
Facilitator Training, February 22, 23, 24, 2016 ES pharannen ee a zo
Training held at Trust Conference Center oeboyn Eotion° finan R B i N G BE R
This proposal is for illustration purposes only. Coverage and limits governed by policy terms and conditions, subject to underwriting and loss verification,

The Trust has modernized the on-site inspection process via our proprietary mobile
application, ONUS360. Following an on-site assessment, members receive a customized
report detailing images of hazards, severity rankings, OSHA compliance and other
recommendations. The power to deliver measurable results now fits in the palm of your
hand.
Revolutionizing the onsite inspection process for loss prevention.
eee i i - @ Fe
eel a, a am
| Cau! | Peeaagee oe lariat tech ic Tit Drei ai tigre tian fess: tf Cuming losis By 256, 205 ape ee
[ Rtwoed Town Sees Sewn | ~ONUSaco LEONI 1260 | | a
QY Enterprice City eee ee Bel i inotocs : ares RPA Reaeiare eine ae torts
JQ Ephraim City aS : eatin = SA TS Fp ae ei
A Erenente Cty goes : es fe sesreot tease Pavan 4 {2 Accocistior of Gavernmente Caper
Q cuckacay ES peaieen | % School Distric Boies eg ed sm samarane I SESE
Pintinottin | BOR State Acacia |
:
coisa
(his proposal is for illustration purposes only. Coverage and limits governed by policy terms cad conditions, subject to undenwriting and loss verification,

To ensure your assets are fully protected, the Trust provides certified property appraisals at
no cast. Appraisals include detailed images, valuation, GPS coordinates and COPE data.
Enty: 12180 LEMI CITY CORFORATION a oe
ass y Gacy CENT Pe
Site; uz2 LEGACY CENTER EEnlen | Oita tine Baa ie an ee ek Bea
Buitding: OWL «LEGACY CENTER Sites es) 1 SR RE RO es
Deparment: C0 HOT UTED an Sg cok re eee Eee ges 4
Buiit/ Acquirna: Zou 12cet Inspaction Date: aociy "Se geEPe ea iene see Sepa ar
fbr. al Storion: = 2 ‘ots! Square Feet; = 92.224 ee i So. ae Be © ee
Besemnsrt: NO Bsmt Square Feat: ree ee ine
floodZene: =X Adéw/Renovations: NO eee ee scp PO SER
Occupanty: GRO - RECREATION CENTER Ris 3 gen See i eee eto. GG <3 ae
Frama type: ST SIEEL Meas ae 69 So ee Be
ROC; = MASONRY NON COMSUST:GUE SO wen CR ea eee
GPS Lat & Long; Na" 25 388 AT so.8 a Ae Heerlen en mTOR [pein cee
Fics Protection; SPRINKLER SYSTEM - PARTIAL FIRE AUARKS - AUTORATIC «i ee WOVE SACS S eek fe macs il
AIRE LARS AAR BEBE Eee a
Reolings PLAY [SINGLE MEMBRANE), CLAY TILE he BE ORE Ge Ce
Piteh A Shape; FLAY 95% MEDIUM SE, PLAY 95% MiP S38 ; BO
Foundstlon: CONCRETE SLAG GX GRCUND, CONCRETE FOOTINGS SATSS SS aA MI RS TAT ORT np ANS
FldorPinish: VINYL TILE, NOOO
Coltlag Finish: ACOUSTICAL ROT APPL CABLE
Pavtitions: CONCRETE BLOCK, CRYWALL ON STEEL STUDS VALUATION CongtusiONS
, . _ Repfaceneat Coxt New: 44,640,100
SERVICES FEATURES
HEATING VAL GIN FREEZER Cantatte Waly S615.708
MRCONSITONNG 2UE TAN NESE.
ELRCTAICAL LOCKERS.
PLUMBNG QURAN SEATING Seismic Zone: 3
tnvestary IB: t
NOTES
QUILGHNG PEATURES INCLUDE 16 CAMERA SECURITY SYSTCH, CONCESSIONS, SENIOR CENTER: CLASSROOMS, LOCKER ROCME: 3 GYMNASIUMS, ROOK CLINBING WALL LARGE.
POOL, LARY RIVER INDOCROUTOOOA WATER PLAYGROUND, PASSENGER CLEVATOR. WALKING TRACK AND WEIGHT ROOM LEASE
This proposal ts jor ilustration purposes only. Coverage and limits governed by policy terms and conditions, subject to undenvriting and loss verification.

Are you ever confronted with a pressing legal question or need a second opinion? Our Legal
Hotline enables members to have ready access to legal expertise paid for by the Trust. The
Hotline is designed to assist members on a limited basis so they can make the right decisions
and avoid exposure to liability.
LEGAL HOTLINE: O1-808-213 1
| MarkAnderson  DavidChurch _—siLinette Hutton =
UTAH LOCAL GOVERNMENTS TRUST

Sagi STON SENTRA DEN ROO RINE I A A I a ermal Ree ES RE SSS NEN HCC HTS RNS ANTI

Chis proposal is for illustration purposes only. Coverage end limits governed by policy terms and conditions, subject to undenvriting ard loss verification.

The Trust has partnered with Constitution State Services to ensure expert claims handling.
Our philosophy is simple, we pay claims we owe and defend those we don’t. Here’s what you
can expect:
® Claims adjustment flexibility
° Direct Access to our Claims Manager
2 Online claims portal
We'll do the
e o the rest.
Re a ape peeps,
Online reporting: itahtrust.gev/elaims
Use Trust Account # 000 000 AT7
UTAH LOCAL GOVERNMENTS TRUST
This proposal is for illustration purposes only. Coverage and limits governed ky policy rerms and conditions, subject to undenvriting and loss verifiention,

Detailed loss reports, key performance indicators, and claim status updates are vital to
your success. These features and more can be found in eCarma, your customized
claims portal.
vawien Conake Sevee & sajary Katong Lgeselivsts faking: fige & finployment Lag foraiysin Reéetrurts Ponatrsiion
. WE Claimant Age Analysis Gndemaity chains only) me bid WC Length of Employment (indenrsity claims anly) id er
 tesmes: 05/08/2042 te 03/06/2035 tosses: O/02/2012 ta 3/06/2075 P 1
: & £420,000 | it
Bra Ses :
eed $260,000 ra ;
Fee % 3 $20,000 Fees 4
Ae Oo ee EY é ef 2. 4
E i $420,0 BS EA 5 $120,000 3 8 i
i $80, 0U8 Se e i £50,000 eS 4
: $40,000 a . , $30,000 as | ;
<2 15-25 26-35 3645 46-55 955 si It SO OD 18-24 OG
: ainant Age Years of Employment
| -Y Yetettnesered = @ Cir Count | Yowlincunet Claim Count !
Lisi fourth Cause Ranking Laties Wartsiceste Lay Ansiysis
1, Ante <) Ran-Atto
Liability {Excl Auto) Tay $ Accident Causes (Claim Count) | Liability (Excl Auto) Top S Accident Causes (Total Incurred) } |
Logses; OL /CL (2082 to af 2h;2u1 Ss Losses: OF/G1f2052 te 02/20/2015 i
@ 4-ovur B3 $375,495 -assaurt or parreny ;
3- PROPINEET OFF PREMISES $69,323 . OPER |
z Seer Ps P. RECREATIONAL OR SPCRTMNG ACHV PN NS EN RE sv7,512- sui TRIP, OR FALL-LIA Bt
Pages ed BY 2-PROP-ALL Onsen CArAGES SS ES, BA $4,329. PROPTHENT OFF PRERISES
Fie represents 16% of the telst 20 eloime Fie represents 39% cf tha total $292,103 aoliars
LishHity Claim Reporting Lag ei me E
Losses: 01/01/2015 to 09/27/2016 ;
Acculent Date to Date Notice Reccived Be RISD Ce NRRL RI
Rarcantko totals “sp sis5 Se adsy om = 2s
hag Days: og. 8 4-7 e100 Bou
‘This propasal is for illustration purposes only. Coverage and limits governed by poiicy terms and conditions, subject to underwriting and loss verification.

While not required, we encourage members to utilize our broad loss prevention resources to
address the most common and costly causes of loss. Our Trust Accountability Program (TAP)
was specifically designed for this purpose. Members who complete the TAP are entitled to a
cash incentive based on 5% of their Liability premium, and now up to 4.5% off the Workers
Compensation premium. This program involves four key elements:
1) Safety Committee
2) Return to Work Policy
3) Motor Vehicle Records (MVR)
4) Monthly Training
Eligibility also requires the Town to carry General Liability, Property and Workers
Compensation with the Trust.
As part of our robust safety program, the Trust provides free MVR checks of all drivers on a
monthly basis. Simply provide your driver roster and we’ll do the rest. Data shows the
significance of adding this feature to our Trust Accountability Program (TAP). When first
implemented, 20% of the 12,000 Trust-insured drivers showed an infraction on their driving
record. Several years later, that number has plummeted to 12%.
20% to 12%
This propesal is for illustration purposes anty, Coverage and limits governed by policy terms and conditions, subject to undenwriti ng and loss verification.

DIVIDENDS & GRANTS
Since 2010 the Trust has returned over $6.5 million dollars in member equity distributions.
Kearns Metro Township would have received nearly $7,500 in dividends and grants during
that period.
Kearns Metro Township
Distribution Estimate
$4727 —— 82,711
Total: _
| Dividends Grants
‘This proposal is for illustration purposes only. Coverage and limits governed by policy terms and conditions, subject to undenvriting anu lass verification.

ables Popety ccc lr
Comprehensive Liability (¢2M Limit) $10,842 * |
| Property ($100k Contents / $1K Deductible) ;
| Statutory - No Limit $499 * |
| Employers Liability ($100,000 / $100,000 / $500,000) | |
‘TOTAL COMBINED PREMIUM | $11,334
* Premium subject to audit
This proposal is for illustration purposes only, Coverage and limits governed by policy terms and conditions, subject ta underwriting and loss verification.

MEMBERSHIP BENEFITS SUMMARY
The Trust. aiid
360° Partnership. ee
pied: | LEGALHOTLINE
J —— | | FREEMVRREPORTS _
oo Kearns Metro sa rc clr isis.
. | CUSTOMIZED TRAINING |
— 4 | EMODANALYSIS
_ DIVIDENDS & GRANTS

‘This proposal is for Ulustration purposes ami, Coverage ane limits weverned by policy fernis and conditions, subject to urdenartting vand loss verification.

| Foty = =€ontet = =—s—CssPe Ss Fs Products
Scott $ | |
Sacel cott Sampson ; aT
; | 801) 768-7100 Liability, Pro , Aut
Lehi City Risk Manager | (801) | Liability, Property, Auto
| _ Liability, Property
: ’ | Kane Loader i d j
Midvale City = eis » (801) 567-7206 | — Auto, Workers
City Adminisirator | : .
; | Compensation
| | Liability, Property,
|  Kymber Housley | ‘
435) 716-9080 | Auto, Workers
Logan City City Attorney | (435) 716-90 uto, Workers
| Compensation
| 3 Liability, Property,
: : F i Troy Fitzgerald ;
Springville City | ‘pes | (801) 491-7850 Auto, Workers
| City Manager ;
Compensation
| | * eye,
| | Liability, Property,
Ken Bassett : ‘
i i ; 435) 789-2255 | Auto, Work
Vernal City | hy Manager | (435) | u arkers
| | Compensation
| | Liability, Property
: : Ken Neilson k H : :
Washington City Ais ms | (435) 656-6308 == Auto, Workers
» | Compensation
: Liability, Property
Matt Dixon i p ;
j : | 801) 622-2702} Auto, Workers
"South Ogden City Cigy Maneger | (801) | uto, Worker
| H Compensation
{ i |
Additional references available upon request.
‘This proposal is for illustration purposes only. Coverage and limits governed by policy terms and canditions, subject to undenvriting and joss verification,
