                                                    NEPHI CITY
                                                 COUNCIL MEETING
                                                  February 3, 2026

The Nephi City Council met in regular session in the council chambers of city hall located at 21 East 100
North at 7:00 p.m. Tuesday, February 3, 2026.

Those present were:
               Mayor ......................................................................... Justin D. Seely
               Council Member ........................................................ Jeramie Callaway
               Council Member ........................................................ Shari Cowan
               Council Member ........................................................ JD Parady
               Council Member ........................................................ Travis Worwood
               Council Member ........................................................ Tate Douglas
               City Administrator ...................................................... Seth Atkinson
               Assistant City Administrator....................................... Sara Samuelson
               City Attorney .............................................................. Brittany Tellez
               City Recorder.............................................................. Leslee Anderson
               Golf Director............................................................... Mike Booth
               Library Director .......................................................... Ruth Bonzo

Guests: Donald W. Ball, Myrna Trauntvein (Press), Joran Carter, Ann Peterson, Rhett Peterson, Joel Cowan

Mayor Seely opened the meeting and convened into regular session. 7:00 pm

PRAYER: Sara Samuelson, Assistant City Administrator/Finance Director

PLEDGE OF ALLEGIENCE: Mike Booth, Golf Director

READING OF PROCLAMATION No. 2026-1
      At city council meeting on 1-20-2026, Rhett and Ann Peterson asked the city to become a
      JustServe City. The council agreed to follow the steps to achieve this. As part of becoming a
      JustServe city, we needed to create a volunteerism proclamation for our city. The mayor read the
      finished proclamation. The proclamation is attached as Exhibit A.

CONSENT AGENDA
      Councilor Shari Cowan made a motion to approve the consent agenda including Council Meeting
      Minutes from 1-20-2026, Approval of claims dated 2-2-2026, and burial rights for Michael Craig
      Carter (one space). Councilor Travis Worwood seconded the motion. The motion passed on
      unanimous vote.

NO PUBLIC COMMENT

NO PLANNING ITEMS
FAA GRANT APPLICATION - PARKING LOT
       The Nephi Municipal Airport has a Capital Improvement Plan (CIP) that has listed a parking lot
       area as the next project eligible for federal funding. The city staff is recommending that a grant
       application be submitted to fund a paved parking area near the pilot’s lounge area. Currently
       there are only gravel areas set aside for parking. This project would create a striped, hard-
       surface parking area with approximately twenty-six spaces. A concept of the parking area is
       shown below.




        Councilor Travis Worwood made a motion to authorize the mayor to sign the FAA Grant
        Application. Councilor JD Parady seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously.

BID TOTALS – SNOW REMOVAL EQUIPMENT – NEPHI MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
       Initially the city only got one bit for the snow removal equipment. They felt the amount was
       excessive and decided to rebid. City Administrator Seth Atkinson explained the rebid process,
       resulting in a bid of $287,482.18. Councilor JD Parady moved to approve the bid and move forward
       with the bid and contract. Councilor Shari Cowan seconded the motion. The motion passed on
       unanimous vote.

PETITION FOR ANNEXATION – NEBO SOUTH ANNEXATION
       Seth Atkinson presented the petition of annexation of several parcels northwest of the airport.
       The council discussed the annexation process and the potential benefits of a future data center
       project coming to the area. Seth described that the approval of the petition is not a final decision
       to annex but allows the process to move forward. Councilor Travis Worwood made a motion to
       approve the petition and allow the process to move forward. Councilor Tate Douglas seconded
       the motion. The motion passed unanimously. The map below shows the annexation area in green.
       Some city owned property (airport) is also shown in green.
ADMINISTRATIVE AND COUNCIL UPDATES
   • Seth Atkinson attended the East Juab Water Conservancy meeting and updated the council on the
        master plan for the CUP water line. There are still questions that need to be answered concerning
        the CUP line: raw or treated water? Where will pipeline go? Will each city have its own treatment
        plant? The master plan will help to answer these questions. East Juab Water Conservancy
        meetings are held the 3rd Wednesday of each month at the DUP building. The public portion
        begins at 7:00 and then 7:30 discussion of CUP project begins. The next meeting is February 18.
   • Mr. Atkinson reminded the council of the upcoming ULCT conference April 22-24. Sara Samuelson
        will manage hotel and registration arrangements for council members planning to attend.
Councilor JD Parady left the meeting. 7:30 pm
   • Mr. Atkinson showed two different flag designs for an America250 flag to hang below the
        American flag on the new flagpole at the park during the summer celebrations. The council
        preferred the flag with a blue background, rather than white.
   • Mr. Atkinson commented on the successful Resource Fair held on Saturday, January 31. He stated
        the magnets for garbage pickup were a hot item. Although numbers were lower than last year it
        was still a successful event.
   • Ms. Anderson reminded the council to sign the mylar for the 400 West Annexation so we could
        get that finished and recorded.
   • Ms. Cowan commended the library for their work with the Resource Fair. This year there were 51
        vendors, up from 44 last year.
   • Ms. Cowan attended the law enforcement training that Chief Morgan organized. It was out at Bar
        W. The topic was cardiac health in law enforcement officers and the importance of screening. The
        council discussed organizing screenings for the employees. There would be a cost, but the money
        saved from less health claims would offset it.
   • Ms. Cowan mentioned she had seen comments on social media about the ‘No Trespassing signs
        being down at the Pump Track and people are on it every day. The council worried about it being
        ruined before it was ready to be opened.
   • Mr. Callaway met with county commissioners where they discussed projects occurring in Nephi
        and around the county that they can work together on. They also considered having a pay model
        for law enforcement to keep the pay scales similar.
   • Mr. Callaway mentioned the idea of creating a generic email account to use for Nephi City events
        and parades to help with communication and coordination. The city discussed the benefit of
        having all information in one location, and the email address passing onto the next person easily
        so they could have record of what was done in the past. The city will plan to create something for
        that purpose.
   • The mayor and Mr. Worwood displayed a coin design they have been working on for the
        America250 celebration. They asked for feedback and other ideas for the design. The council liked
        the proposed design presented.
   • Mayor Seely attended the America250 meeting and talked about how different departments are
        contributing. The library does a monthly theme/event. The recreation department is encouraging
        people to log 250 miles (swimming, biking, walking, hiking, etc.). The mayor also mentioned
        utilizing JustServe website for service opportunities.
   • The mayor met with vendors at the Resource Fair and got valuable feedback. Vendors were
        pleased with our community’s efforts to share information about what is available to them.
   • With the Police department’s recent event and its success, the mayor is excited to have Nephi as
        a central location with the possibility of providing more opportunities for organizations to come
        to Nephi to provide and participate in trainings and events that would benefit our community.
    •   Mr. Worwood announced that Bar W steakhouse will be opening on March 3.


Work Session 7:52 pm
   1. Golf Fees
           a. Mike Booth, Golf Director, discussed the need to adjust golf fees, comparing current rates
               to other local courses. The last time fees were increased was prior to the 2024 season.
           b. The council considered changes to senior rates, weekday rates, and weekend rates,
               aiming to accommodate local players.
           c. Additional discussion involved extending the junior rate to Juab High School students and
               increasing to junior pass to $200.
           d. Councilor Douglas suggested implementing a non-resident rate for daily fees and passes
               and the feasibility of having online registration. The council wanted to aim to have that
               feature when the back nine holes are completed.
           e. With the warmer weather, the golf course has been operating during winter months.
               Patrons have asked to buy passes. The council agreed to hold off selling new passes until
               the new rates are officially approved.
   2. Background Check Policy
           a. Seth Atkinson, city administrator, introduced a new background check policy required for
               library volunteers and employees working with youth.
           b. The policy will be reviewed by management and staff and possibly be implemented
               citywide.
           c. The policy will cover a wide range of city and county activities involving youth, including
               sports and internships.
           d. The council discussed the challenges of creating a comprehensive policy that covers all
               relevant city and county activities. Highlighted was a need for a balanced approach that
               ensures safety while not being overly restrictive.
           e. The cost of background checks was considered and the possibility of having volunteers
               pay for themselves. The council mentioned the impact of that requirement on volunteer
               recruitment.
   3. Resource Fair Report
           a. Ruth Bonzo, Library Director, noted the increase in booths from the previous year.
           b. The fair had 51 booths, 108 people manning the booths, and 376 attendees.
           c. The networking among businesses and attendees was highlighted and the fair deemed a
               success.

MOTION TO CONVENE TO CLOSED MEETING 8:32 pm
      Councilor Tate Douglas made a motion to convene to closed meeting to discuss character and
      competence of an individual, purchase of real property, and water shares. Councilor Shari Cowan
      seconded the motion. The motion passed on the following roll call vote:
                     Jeramie Callaway        Yes
                     Shari Cowan             Yes
                     Tate Douglas            Yes
                     JD Parady               Absent
                     Travis Worwood          Yes


ADJOURN 9:14 pm
I, Leslee Anderson, Nephi City Recorder, hereby certify that the foregoing minutes represent a true,
accurate, and complete record of the meeting held on February 3, 2026. This document constitutes the
official minutes of the Nephi City Council Meeting.

Leslee Anderson
                                             EXHIBIT A

                                       Proclamation No. 2026-1

                        COMMITMENT TO VOLUNTEERISM IN NEPHI CITY

WHEREAS, we firmly believe that the values of compassion, empathy, and community support are the
foundation of a united harmonious society and fosters connections that transcend differences; and

WHEREAS, the strength and prosperity of our cities, towns, and villages are based on the selflessness
of its residents to serve and uplift one another; and

WHEREAS, we acknowledge the profound impact that can be achieved when we extend a helping hand
to our neighbors, especially those of diverse backgrounds and lifting them up and collectively working to
improve lives; and

WHEREAS, we nurture a culture of giving within our cities, emphasizing that volunteerism is not just a
duty but a source of personal fulfillment and community strength; and as we work side by side with and
learn from each other, mutual understanding increases, misconceptions can be corrected, and new
friendships are built; and

WHEREAS, we urge all citizens to care for one another, volunteer, and engage in acts of service and
kindness that contribute to our city's betterment and its inhabitants' well-being, regardless of background
or belief; and

WHEREAS, Nephi City has joined a growing list of supporters, including the President of the National
League of Cities and hundreds of leaders to date, in making a commitment to volunteerism.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT PROCLAIMED, I, Justin D. Seely, the Mayor of Nephi City, that Nephi
City commits to promoting volunteerism, leveraging JustServe.org to make it easier for residents to find
and engage in volunteer opportunities and will regularly acknowledge and celebrate the contributions of
volunteers.



                                                 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand
                                                 and caused the great seal of Nephi City to be affixed on
                                                 February 17th, 2026.




                                                  Justin D. Seely
                                                  Mayor, Nephi City
