                      NEPHI CITY WORK SESSION MINUTES
                                March 24, 2026
                                   7:00 P.M
                                  21 E 100 N
                               Nephi, UT 84648



1. Nephi Farmers Market
      a. Jacque Thorn was in attendance representing the Farmers Market. Belle Brough
          represented the Ute Stampede Craft fair, and Chris Memmott represented the
          Ute Stampede Committee.
      b. Ms. Thorn requested the use of the Old Mill Park for the Farmers Market venue
          during the week of the Ute Stampede because the city park is unavailable. The
          council approved of the event last year and mentioned surrounding businesses
          also benefited from the farmers market at that location. Ms. Thorn’s desire is to
          give back to the community and to help businesses to interact with the
          community to help their businesses grow.
      c. Ms. Brough stated the craft fair has been part of the Ute Stampede for 44 years.
          She mentioned the challenges of maintaining its traditional location on Main
          Street. She declared she went to the Ute Stampede for approval and has had
          their support for 44 years. She thinks other pop-up markets should also be
          required to get approval.
      d. Mr. Memmott said that pop-up markets asking for approval from the committee
          is helpful as they try to coordinate a variety of events during the week of the
          Stampede. Coordination would help avoid conflicts and ensure community
          support. He felt both events were well-run and added to the Ute Stampede.
      e. Brette Hawkes, a business owner, who is part of the farmers market, participated
          in both events the previous year and expressed that both events benefited the
          community and her as a vendor. She participated in both.
      f. The council discussed their desire to support private businesses. They felt it was
          not their role to inhibit businesses and chose to allow both events to participate
          during Ute Stampede week but to involve the Ute Stampede committee in future
          planning.
2. Methodology for New Electrical Rate
      a. Seth Atkinson, city administrator, discussed the agreement with Set Square to
          make reasonable and best efforts to develop an electric rate by March 31 for
          data center usage. He introduced Kevin Garlick, formerly with UMPA, as the city’s
          consultant.
       b. Mr. Garlick explained the complexities of the data center project and the need
          for a rate methodology rather than a fixed rate. He mentioned the large scale of
          the data center, comparing it to the electricity needs of Brigham Young University
          and the potential for scaling up. He discussed the importance of capturing costs,
          minimizing risks, and ensuring rate impacts on other customers are minimized.
       c. Mr. Garlick elaborated on the need for a pass-through agreement with UMPA to
          secure a block of power for the data center. Discussion covered the potential use
          of natural gas for power generation and the need for transmission and delivery
          costs to be included in the rate. The city’s investment in the 138kV line will
          improve reliability and the potential for recovering costs with the data center
          project. Further talk included other benefits of the data center for the city, such
          as economic density and the potential for a dividend to the general fund.
       d. The council recognized that developing the rate is contingent on two unknowns:
          1) the rates from UMPA and 2) the load needed for the data center. Mr. Atkinson
          explained that is why the methodology approach works.
       e. The council questioned the progress of the annexation for the Data Center. Mr.
          Atkinson explained pausing the process until a developer is secured, the need for
          a public hearing, and completion of an agreement with Set Square to ensure the
          development moves forward.
3. Discussion on Patrol Officers
       a. Mr. Atkinson presented the proposal for adding a patrol officer and helping pay
          down debt service on a new police station. The City Council previously expressed
          a desire to move forward with a property tax increase to increase for this
          purpose. City taxes have not increased for over 30 years. It has been
          approximated that this increase would be somewhere on average of
          $11.00/month per home, depending on home valuation. Commercial and
          industrial rates would vary.
       b. In this last legislative session, there were bills proposed that had drastic changes
          to the way cities can adjust property taxes. Fortunately, these bills were not
          passed. The bills would have limited, or removed, the city’s ability to accomplish
          the proposal of adding additional patrol officer.
       c. The challenges of funding law enforcement through sales tax was discussed
          stating the need for a stable revenue source.
       d. The council expressed concerns about officer burnout and the need for a public
          safety building. The discussion highlighted challenges of being on I-15 and the
          need for additional officers to manage increased call volumes and criminal
             activity. The safety of our community helped drive the decision to move forward
             with the property tax increase to fund additional officers and the council talked
             about a date for a public hearing.
    4. Administrative and Council Updates
          a. Sara Samuelson announced that the OWL camera arrived that will be used to
             video future City Council Meetings.
          b. Ms. Samuelson and Leslee Anderson shared that they had applied for a cemetery
             grant which would help to get the cemetery online for public use and provide
             funds to update the current software.
          c. Mr. Atkinson stated the hallway would be painted and then the hallway and
             council chambers would get new flooring. The bulletin board would also be
             replaced with a tv so we can post things digitally.
          d. Tate Douglas suggested putting a porta potty at the soccer fields until something
             more permanent could be installed. He also measured the horseshoe pit area
             and determined four pickleball courts would fit in that area. Mr. Atkinson stated
             engineering fees were blamed for hindering project progress.
    5. Motion to convene to Closed Meeting—8:38 pm
          a. Councilor Travis Worwood made a motion to convene into closed meeting to
             discuss character and competence of an individual, litigation, purchase of real
             property, and sale of real property.
          b. Councilor Shari Cowan seconded the motion.
          c. The motion passed on the following roll call vote:
                      Jeramie Callaway            Yes
                      Shari Cowan                 Yes
                      Tate Douglas                Yes
                      JD Parady                   Yes
                      Travis Worwood              Yes
    6. Adjourn 9:45pm




ATTENDANCE:

City Council: Mayor Justin D. Seely, JD Parady, Jeramie Callaway, Tate Douglas, Travis Worwood, Shari
Cowan

Staff: City Administrator--Seth Atkinson, Recorder--Leslee Anderson, City Attorney--Brittany Tellez,
Assistant City Administrator—Sara Samuelson
Guests: Donald W. Ball, Jacque Thorn, Belle Brough, Chris Memmott, Kevin Garlick, Joel, Cowan, Sara
Snow, Brette Hawks



I, Leslee Anderson, Nephi City Recorder, hereby certify that the foregoing minutes represent a true,
accurate, and complete record of the meeting held on March 24, 2026. This document constitutes the
official minutes of the Nephi City Council Work Session.

Leslee Anderson
