                         NEPHI CITY WORK SESSION MINUTES
                                  February 10, 2026
                                      7:00 P.M
                                     21 E 100 N
                                   Nephi, UT 84648


1. Farmer’s Market Presentation
      a. Jacque Thorn reviewed the 2025 Farmer’s Market highlighting 17 market days from June
          7 to September 27, with one of those events held at the Old Mill Park.
                i. The market received two grants last year from Utah’s Own and Western Credit
                   Union helping vendors with communication.
               ii. Vendor reports showed an average of 250 people per market day, with 30
                   vendors across the 17 Saturdays.
              iii. A workshop with a representative from Utah Agriculture praised the market’s
                   organization and community representation.
      b. Ms. Thorn stated her desire to have food trucks at the Farmer’s market. Challenges
          include the trucks are not allowed on Main Street (UDOT State Road). She inquired
          about having the trucks on the lawn. Craig Oswald reported on the concern of the parks
          and recreation department and damage to the park.
                i. The council discussed options for food truck placement and decided on the
                   north side of the park. Criag had talked to Jeana, and they felt it would not affect
                   the pool. The pool opens at 1:00 and that is when the farmer’s market closes.
      c. The Ute Stampede committee talked with the mayor and is still concerned about the
          Farmer’s market being held the same weekend as the craft fair. They feel that the market
          benefits from their marketing efforts and should not clash with their events.
                i. During the Ute Stampede the Farmer’s Market moved to the Old Mill Park so
                   they did not interfere with the activities at the park. Local businesses near the
                   Old Mill Park said their businesses experienced extra foot traffic that weekend.
               ii. The council discussed the fact that the craft fair gives a contribution to the
                   marching bands and asked if she should expect the same of the Farmer’s
                   Market.
              iii. Councilors Parady and Worwood discussed the fairness of allowing one event to
                   operate on a specific weekend, suggesting equal treatment for all.
              iv. After Ms. Thorn stated that 98% of the Farmer’s Market is comprised of local
                   vendors, Councilor Douglas emphasized the importance of supporting local
                   businesses and vendors.
               v. Mayor stated we would revisit the issue next week and make a decision. He
                   praised the Farmer’s Market and said it was very well run and asked about ideas
                   to incorporate more produce into the market.
                 vi. Mr. Oswald asked Ms. Thorn if garbage had been an issue and wondered about
                     getting a dumpster. Currently the vendors take care of their garbage, but Ms.
                     Thorn stated she would let Craig know if they needed something more.
2. Elite Laser Tag
        a. Dwayne Horton shared with the council that he wants to start a laser tag league. He
            would do both youth and adult leagues comprising 5 to 6 people per team. The cost
            would be $40/person. He encouraged the council to participate and help get the word
            out.
        b. They have received positive feedback from other communities who come to
            tournaments and have participated in laser tag at those events. He stated it was a great
            selling point for the community to draw people back to our community.
        c. Mr. Horton wants to get people involved and break the barrier that Elite Laser tag is
            what you find in the arcades. He stated it is different. It is cardio intense, fun, team
            building, and involves strategy and communication.
        d. They will have information on their website. Mr. Horton encouraged the council to come
            and participate.
3. Planning Fees
        a. Shauna Talbot, Planning and Zoning, presents a proposal to update development
            application fees based on actual costs and time spent on reviews.
        b. In 2024, it was required to change the subdivision process to conform to state law. The
            staff also recommended changes to the city code governing site plan to create a similar
            process for developers. Now that these processes have been running for approximately
            a year, staff has reevaluated the fee structure for planning fees to more accurately
            reflect the time taken to process an application.
       c. The fee calculations are based upon staff wages and benefits, DRC meeting time and
            follow-up, technology and software systems, facility and utility overhead, and
            professional services like attorneys, engineering, and inspections). It is important to
            ensure that all costs are covered by new development because otherwise city residents
            are subsidizing development review through their taxes.
       d. The council expressed support for the proposed changes and will look to approve them
            in an upcoming meeting.
4. Digital Signature Policy
       a. The council discussed the implementation of a digital signature policy to streamline
            document approvals.
      b. The policy would also include how an electronic signature is to be used,
         particularly by city staff on behalf of the Mayor or other authorized signer.
5. Bond Process and Public Hearing
      a. Mr. Atkinson reviewed the bond process for the upcoming sales tax bond to fund
         the improvements at the golf course for the 9-hole expansion including the
         parameters resolution, public hearing, and bid process.
      b. Incorrect information was recently shared on social media about the city’s sales
         tax bond funding.
                i. Mr. Atkinson addressed these misconceptions and stated that this
                   funding would not raise taxes for our residents.
               ii. Also, even though this bond would be a sales tax bond, it is anticipated
                   that golf revenues would be the source to pay back the debt service with
                   sales taxes acting as a backstop.
       c. Councilor Douglas questioned what the priorities were for other projects around
          Nephi including the Red Cliffs Park and wondered if excess funds from the bond
          could fund such projects.
                i. Mr. Atkinson explained a portion of the bond will be used for land
                   purchase.
               ii. The money that was saved for the Red cliffs Park is now allocated
                   somewhere else, so another source of funding is needed.
              iii. Discussion then turned to the importance of making the golf course self-
                   sustaining and the potential for repurposing funds.
6. Airport Snow Removal Equipment Agreement – UDOT
       a. Mr. Atkinson presented the snow removal equipment agreement and said he
          would bring it for consideration at the next regular meeting.
       b. Several projects are scheduled at the airport: snow removal equipment, parking
          lot, runway repaving, and repair/replacement of sewer line that runs under the
          runway.
       c. The Council questioned using the millings from the runway repaving for other
          projects throughout the city: cart paths, parking lots. Mr. Atkinson stated they
          had to stay at the airport unless the city purchased them. He also explained a
          portion of the millings would be used for an access road behind hangers, a
          driveway, and additional places to help enhance the airport.
7. Engineered Plans for Various City Projects
       a. Mr. Atkinson declared the need for plans for various projects, including the
          police station, Red Cliffs Park, Crimson Flats, and drainage at golf course.
       b. Councilor Parady suggested prioritizing projects to discuss funding and
          resources. Mr. Atkinson will comprise a list of current proposed projects for the
          council to prioritize at the next work session.
       c. The cost for architectural and engineering fees high. Discussion about having
          someone employed by the city to help with planning and design would be
          beneficial.
8. Administrative and Council Updates
       a. Mr. Atkinson discussed the potential impact of property tax increase bills in the
          legislature.
                i. The bills would limit property tax increases to 5% of budgeted property
                   tax revenues.
               ii. Mr. Atkinson suggested acting before the legislative session ends to show
                   good faith under existing rules.
       b. Mr. Atkinson announced the visit of a Ukrainian delegation on Thursday and
          invited council members to join. The delegation is interested in Nephi due to its
              similarities with their community. The visit includes site visits and discussions
              about Nephi’s infrastructure and community.
           c. Mr. Douglas was talking with a child about an injury, and the child reported he
              had fallen at the Pump track. The child said there were no ‘no trespassing’ signs
              at the park.
           d. Mr. Douglas also recognized Donald Ball for picking up trash and helping beautify
              the city.
           e. Mayor Seely thanked the council for feedback on the coin. He is wanting to get it
              ordered soon. He also wants to do another coin with the Killers band on it and
              then use proceeds to put a bronze statue in the city.
           f. Councilor Parady wants the council to try to communicate positive and accurate
              information to the public. The council discussed using regular video messages to
              keep the public informed.
           g. Councilor Worwood suggested utilizing Owl Labs to live stream meetings to also
              help with transparency and communication.
    9. Motion to convene to closed meeting
           a. Councilor JD Parady made a motion to convene to closed meeting to discuss
              character and competence of an individual.
           b. Councilor Travis Worwood seconded the motion.
           c. The motion passed on the following roll call vote:
                      Jeramie Callaway             Yes
                      Shari Cowan                  Absent
                      Tate Douglas                 Yes
                      JD Parady                    Yes
                      Travis Worwood               Yes
           d. 9:07 pm
    10. Adjourn 9:33 pm


ATTENDANCE:

City Council: Mayor Justin D. Seely, JD Parady, Jeramie Callaway, Tate Douglas, Travis Worwood

Absent: Shari Cowan

Staff: City Administrator--Seth Atkinson, Recorder--Leslee Anderson, City Attorney--Brittany Tellez,
Assistant City Administrator—Sara Samuelson, Recreation Director—Craig Oswald, Planning and
Zoning—Shauna Talbot

Guests: Donald W. Ball, Jacque Thorn, Carson Oswald, Dwayne Horton
I, Leslee Anderson, Nephi City Recorder, hereby certify that the foregoing minutes represent a true,
accurate, and complete record of the meeting held on February 10, 2026. This document constitutes the
official minutes of the Nephi City Council Work Session.

Leslee Anderson
