                         NEPHI CITY WORK SESSION MINUTES
                                    April 14, 2026
                                      7:00 P.M
                                     21 E 100 N
                                  Nephi, UT 84648

1. Vertical Discount Proposals
       a. Rick Carlton Proposal for CU-1
                  i. Seth Atkinson explained that Rick Carlton had approached the city with a
                     proposal to adjust the full CU1 zone code allowing for a vertical discount as well
                     as density adjustments. He wants to place high-density residential on his four
                     remaining lots in the Bryce’s Landing Plat A subdivision that are zoned CU1. He is
                     looking to get four structures with three (3) units per structure on each of the
                     four lots for a total of twelve units. Each proposed unit would have two parking
                     spaces.
                 ii. Although staff is in favor of a vertical discount in this zone, they recommend a
                     different percentage discount based on past feedback from the Planning
                     Commission and City Council. The council discussed the potential impact of
                     higher density units in this area, including traffic and parking concerns. Currently
                     three parking spaces are required per unit.
                iii. Residential is a permitted by right use in the CU1 zone. However, this zone is
                     primarily encouraged to be commercial with limited residential.
                iv. Last Wednesday (4-8-26) at the Planning Commission meeting, the Commission
                     recommended that this proposal be denied.
       b. City-initiated proposal for CU-1 & CU-2
                  i. Mr. Atkinson and Shauna Talbot (Planning and zoning supervisor) summarized
                     the idea of allowing a vertical discount of fifty (50%) percent for 2nd and 3rd
                     floors in the CU-1 and CU-2 zones, regardless of whether the use is residential or
                     commercial.
                 ii. Currently the required density for residential for both zones is six (6) units per
                     acre and requires 7,260 square feet of property per unit to develop. Commercial
                     development requires a density of 5.445 units per acre and requires 8,000
                     square feet of property per unit to develop. Changes would require 7,260 x .50 =
                     3,630 sq ft land for residential, and 8,000 x .50 = 4,000 sq ft land for commercial
                     on upper floors in addition to the above-mentioned requirements.
                iii. This discount can help a developer reduce the lot size requirement and not alter
                     other ground measures aiding with affordability and feasibility of the project. It
                     also avoids excessive property that may not be maintained as well as a smaller
                     area of maintenance.
                iv. This ordinance proposes that nothing changes with density if a building is built
                     horizontally, but if a development chooses to build vertically the second and
                    third floors are “reusing” the same building footprint of the bottom floor, and
                    therefore does not alter footprint ground coverage, space for parking and drive
                    paths, space for open space, setbacks, or required landscaping.
                v. Planning Commission recommended the proposal be approved at their meeting
                    on April 8, 2026.
               vi. The council discussed the potential for higher density units in the city and
                    possible creating an R4 zone. Impact of higher density on traffic, infrastructure,
                    and schools were mentioned. Suggestions were made for placing this zone near
                    transportation corridors. Consideration for creating low-income housing with
                    the higher density units was expressed.
2. Residential Homes Code Change
       a. Mr. Atkinson introduced a request to decrease the distance requirements between
          disabled and elderly facilities. The current ordinance has a distance requirement of
          3,960 feet. The staff recommended the distance be decreased to 1,056 feet (2 city
          blocks).
       b. The current code also limits the number of individuals in one facility to eight. The staff is
          recommending a change to allow the maximum number of residents (including staff) to
          be increased to twelve.
       c. Discussion ensued about requiring the state’s certification and licensing requirements
          for facilities to help ensure compliance.
       d. The Planning Commission recommended this be approved by the council and will be
          brought to the next meeting for consideration.
3. America 250 designs
       a. Mr. Atkinson introduced Lori Jackson, who created potential apparel designs for the
          city’s America 250 celebration and presented them to the council.
       b. The mayor and council provided feedback on the designs and shared preferences for
          front and back images. They will limit choices to two or three.
4. Administration and Council Updates
       a. Mr. Atkinson and Councilor Cowan discussed ideas for the Miss Nephi program including
          adding a Miss Teen Nephi for girls aged 13-16 and having a non-finalist award for those
          participating.
       b. Planning and Zoning intern, Mike Rasmussen, was introduced to the council.
       c. Councilor Parady mentioned the community’s interest in a dog park. The council
          discussed the potential liability of a dog park and the need for responsible dog
          ownership. Ideas to involve local businesses for sponsorship and maintenance near their
          businesses was mentioned. Currently a dog park is not in the recreation master plan or
          in the budget.
       d. A Hive Manager job will be posted for internal recruitment. The mayor and Councilor
          Douglas volunteered to participate in the interview committee.
       e. Councilors Parady and Douglas will be involved in interviews to hire a new police officer.
            f. Ms. Anderson attended the Utah Municipal Clerk’s Association (UMCA) conference in
               Cedar City last week.
            g. Mr. Atkinson suggested organizing a tribute day for Scott McKay, coinciding with tree
               planting activities. Also suggested were littler pickup and park cleanup. The school
               district is also planning a tribute day. The city will work to coordinate with them.
            h. Councilor Douglas inquired about the possibility of pickleball courts to replace the
               horseshoe pits. A bid was recently acquired and would cost around $145,000 for four
               courts. The city currently has that money available in the PAR tax.
            i. Mayor Seely and Craig will be meeting with the Lion’s Club to discuss constructing a
               bowery near the soccer fields and playground on 200 N like the bowery at the Canyon
               View Ball Fields on 100 N.
            j.The mayor, Seth Atkinson, Brittany Tellez (city attorney) met with the county
              commissioners to discuss the GIS parcel data agreement. The county wants to charge a
              fee, but Ms. Tellez stated we could request a fee waiver because we are a government
              entity. The hold-up for approval is the time limit for the agreement. The city would like
              10 years, or seven years if the county will not approve ten.
    5. Motion to convene to closed meeting 8:13pm
          a. Councilor Parady made the motion to convene to closed meeting for the discussion of
              character and competence of an individual, litigation, and real property.
          b. Councilor Cowan seconded the motion.
          c. The motion passed on the following roll call vote:

                        Jeramie Callaway                 Yes
                        Shari Cowan                      Yes
                        Tate Douglas                     Yes
                        JD Parady                        Yes
                        Travis Worwood                   Absent


    6. Adjourn 9:03 pm



ATTENDANCE:

City Council: Mayor Justin D. Seely, JD Parady, Jeramie Callaway, Tate Douglas, Shari Cowan

Absent: Travis Worwood

Staff: City Administrator--Seth Atkinson, Recorder--Leslee Anderson, City Attorney--Brittany Tellez,
Assistant City Administrator—Sara Samuelson, Planning and Zoning—Shauna Talbot

Guests: Donald W. Ball, Cory Thomson, Mike Rasmussen, Lori Jackson
I, Leslee Anderson, Nephi City Recorder, hereby certify that the foregoing minutes represent a true,
accurate, and complete record of the meeting held on April 14, 2026. This document constitutes the
official minutes of the Nephi City Council Work Session.

Leslee Anderson
