                                                    NEPHI CITY
                                                 COUNCIL MEETING
                                                   April 7, 2026

The Nephi City Council met in regular session in the council chambers of city hall located at 21 East 100
North at 7:00 p.m. Tuesday, April 7, 2026.

Those present were:
               Mayor ......................................................................... Justin D. Seely
               Council Member ........................................................ Jeramie Callaway
               Council Member ........................................................ Shari Cowan
               Council Member ........................................................ Travis Worwood
               Council Member ........................................................ Tate Douglas
               Council Member ........................................................ JD Parady
               City Administrator ...................................................... Seth Atkinson

Guests: Myrna Trauntvein (Press), Donald W. Ball, Drake Underwood, Ryan Meyring, David Fletcher,
Matthew Strong, John Harrison, Brandee Wing, Michael Wing, Kevin Jerman, Dana Hoyt, Chelsie Rios


The mayor welcomed everyone present and convened to regular session. 7:00 pm

PRAYER: Councilor Tate Douglas

PLEDGE OF ALLEGIENCE: Councilor JD Parady
      Mayor Seely introduced a new tradition involving coins with the pledge of allegiance on them.
      He will give one to anyone who leads the pledge at City Council Meeting. Councilor Parady
      received the first coin.

CONSENT AGENDA
      Councilor Shari Cowan made a motion to approve the consent agenda including Work
      Session/Council meeting minutes dated 3-10-2026; Work Session minutes dated 3-24-2026;
      Approval of Claims dated 4-3-2026; and burial rights for Annette Higbee (2 spaces), Karen S.
      Haney (4 spaces), and Terry Haney (4 spaces).
      Councilor Parady seconded the motion. The motion passed on unanimous vote.

PROCLAMATION – ARBOR DAY
      Mayor Seely read the Arbor Day proclamation and designated April 24, 2026, as Arbor Day in the
      city of Nephi. Mayor Seely paid tribute to Scott McKay, a community member who recently
      passed away. He described Scott’s love for the planet and how on the last Arbor Day, Scott and
      his wife were present as trees were planted. Council Members also shared individual
      experiences, their respect for Scott McKay, and mentioned his community involvement and
      service. The mayor would like to honor Scott by setting aside a day to pick up litter, take a hike,
      or do a good deed.

PUBLIC COMMENT
    •   Matt Strong, Nephi resident, introduced himself and others present who have homes in the
        Winn Ridge Subdivision. He mentioned homeowners who had been displaced from their homes
        due to the instability and severe damage of the structures caused by settling issues. He came
        looking for help from the city. He stated if someone from the city looked at their homes, it would
        help them feel like the city cared.
    •   Ryan Meyring, Brandy Wing, Chelsie Rios, and John Harrison also addressed the council. They
        questioned why the meeting with the Condemnation Board was canceled three hours prior to
        the meeting. These homeowners expressed frustration with the delay in addressing their
        concerns and lack of communication from the city. One of the homeowners stated they are
        piering their home to help correct issues. The residents stated they were not blaming the city
        but discussed the need for clear communication and collaboration with the city.
    •   The council and mayor stated they could not discuss the home undergoing the condemnation
        process because of attorney/client privilege. The council expressed their sympathy for the
        situation. The city administrator described the condemnation process and said that there is
        currently only one homeowner who has spoken to the city about that and they were not
        present. Each homeowner needed to talk to the city if interested in going through the
        condemnation process and needed a structural engineer report for their specific home.

NO PLANNING ITEMS

SUNRISE AGREEMENT AMENDMENT
       Nephi City asked for assistance from Sunrise for various technical aspects relating to expanding
       the Canyon Hills Golf Course including storm drain issues and water sourcing for the back nine.
       These technical support services will be performed under the active Work Release 2019-1 for
       General Engineering Services. The memorandum serves to outline the approach to providing
       these services.
       Councilor Tate Douglas made a motion to move forward with the memorandum from Sunrise
       Engineering. Councilor Jeramie Callaway seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously.

ADMINISTRATIVE AND COUNCIL UPDATES
   • Mr. Atkinson announced that the north side of the building had been xeriscaped to help
      conserve water. He also stated that the City Hall would be replacing carpet in the hall and council
      chambers on April 23 and 24.
   • Ms. Cowan had received complaints concerning watering on school grounds. She realized the
      city does not maintain schools but discussed the need for better communication with schools
      and other organizations regarding the city’s goals for water conservation. Mr. Atkinson declared
      the current city restriction is no watering between 10 am and 6 pm.
   • Mr. Douglas suggested a day of service in memory of Scott Mckay in conjunction with what
      would be his 70th birthday on May 22. He mentioned coordinating with Scott’s wife Sharon.
   • Mayor Seely discussed the 250 celebration. The city is working with the DUP. Lucinda, DUP
      representative, arranged to have the Ute Tribe involved. However, insurance coverage for the
      event was in question and would need to be resolved. Mayor mentioned Ruth Bonzo was
      attending the America 250 National Conference.
   • Mayor will be ordering a new marker for the time capsule and then the city can start promoting
      the opening of the old time capsule.
    •   Mayor and Commissioner Painter discussed the possibility of mental health education for our
        community. They will be meeting with the director of Human Services to discuss opportunities
        and funding available to help educate the community.
    •   Mr. Callaway mentioned there are still two open alternative vacancies on the planning
        commission. He would like to get those filled quickly.
    •   Mr. Parady declared that Brady Jones will be transitioning out of the executive director’s role for
        the Chamber of Commerce. Jodi Cox will fill that role to help with the transition. The board
        approved today to allow the Chamber to move from a president and executive director to a CEO
        that will operate jointly for the chamber. This process will happen on a future date.
    •   Mr. Parady has received emails from residents desiring a dog park to be incorporated into future
        park plans. Mr. Worwood stated there is an area across from Bar W that is being prepared for
        travelers with dogs.
    •   Mr. Worwood talked with senior citizens living in Nebo Heights who were frustrated by the
        sidewalks. In some areas weeds are taking over, and in other spots, trees prohibit walking on the
        sidewalk completely. This problem would be handled by the code enforcement officer.
    •   Mr. Worwood suggested changing the code to allow for eight-foot-high fences in residential
        areas and ten feet in industrial areas.
    •   Mayor Seely shared an America 250 coin with each person in attendance. The remaining coins
        will be sold in conjunction with the America 250 celebration.

Work Session
   1. Lighting for City Facilities
           a. Gerratt Bethers has received bids for a permanent lighting solution on the city building
              and the large and small boweries at the park.
           b. The council approved of the idea of the permanent lighting, but after looking over the
              bids had additional questions. Seth will have Gerratt come to a future meeting to answer
              questions and provide information about the different options.
   2. East Juab Water Conservancy District RFP (Request for Proposal)
           a. Seth Atkinson and Kyle Marchant attended the East Juab Water Conservancy meeting.
              The interest in bringing water to Juab through the Central Utah Water Project was
              discussed. The district mentioned an RFP for a feasibility study and would like a financial
              contribution from local entities. Nephi’s portion would be $15,000.
           b. The council discussed the urgency of the project and the support of Representative Troy
              Shelley to help acquire state funding.

MOTION TO CONVENE TO CLOSED MEETING 8:53 pm
      Councilor Shari Cowan made a motion to convene to closed meeting to discuss character and
      competence of an individual and litigation. Councilor Jeramie Callaway seconded the motion.
      The motion passed on the following roll call vote:

                        Jeramie Callaway                 Yes
                        Shari Cowan                      Yes
                        Tate Douglas                     Yes
                        JD Parady                        Yes
                        Travis Worwood                   Yes

ADJOURN 9:30 pm
I, Leslee Anderson, Nephi City Recorder, hereby certify that the foregoing minutes represent a true,
accurate, and complete record of the meeting held on April 7, 2026. This document constitutes the official
minutes of the Nephi City Council Meeting.

Leslee Anderson
