                           Nephi City Planning Commission
                          Public Hearings & Regular Meeting
                                   August 11, 2021
Seth Atkinson opened the meeting at 7pm and welcomed those in attendance.

Opening prayer offered by Ann Peterson.

Public Hearing opened for zone change request regarding North Ridge Subdivision Phase B from R1-H to R1-8 with
no overlay. Richard Petersen does not want townhomes/condominiums in his backyard. Meeting closed @ 7:08pm.

Planning Commission reviewed the minutes from July 14th meeting. Kent Heap motioned the approval of July 14th
minutes. Karl Brough seconded the motion. Motion passed with a unanimous vote.

Zone change request for North Ridge Subdivision Phase B was reviewed by Commission. Karl Brough motioned the
approval of zone change from R1-8 to R1-H. Ann Peterson seconded the motion. Motion passed with a unanimous
vote.

North Ridge Subdivision Phase B preliminary plat along with DRC notes were reviewed by Commission. Kyle
Marchant explained a geotechnical report has been done. Karl Brough motioned the approval of North Ridge
Subdivision Phase B preliminary plat. Motion was seconded by Cory Thomson. Motion passed with a unanimous
vote.

Commission discussed RV parks and length of stay. Current legal maximum is 30 days. Special circumstances with
options for longer stay could include home construction and community projects for example. City Council would
like to work on this together with the Commission.

Ann Peterson motioned to adjourn the meeting. Motion was seconded by Cory Thomson. Motion passed with a
unanimous vote. Meeting closed at 7:42pm.



Attendance:

Seth Atkinson, Emergency Chairman
Karl Brough, Planning Commission Member
Kent Heap, Planning Commission Member
Ann Peterson, Alt. Planning Commission Member
Cory Thomson, Planning Commission Member
Kyle Marchant, Public Works Director
Maria Petersen
Richard Petersen
Teresa Petersen
Devon Petersen
JD Parady
Terry Messersmith
Cody Messersmith
