Adopted  January  27,  1998 
Prepared by:
Countywide Plannning &
Development Office
Cache   County
Countywide   Comprehensive   Plan
M. LYNN LEMON 
CACHE COUNTY 
CORPORATION 
COUNTY COUNCIL 
COUNTYEXECUTIVBSURVEY OR DARREL L. GIBBONS 
CHAIRMAN 120 NORTH 100 WEST 
LOGAN, UTAH 84321 
Tel 435-752-5935 
Fax 752-9169 
RESOLUTION NO . 98-os 
CORY YEATES 
V CHAIRMAN 
SARAH ANN SKANCHY 
C. LARRY ANHDER 
GUY RAY PULSIPHER 
H. CRAIG PETERSEN 
LAYNE M. BECK 
STEPHEN M. ERICKSON 
A RESOLUTION ADOPTING A CACHE COUNTY-WIDE CLERK 
CONIPREHENSIVE PLAN AND LAND USE ELEMENT. 
The County Council of Cache County, Utah, in a regular meeting, lawful notice of 
which has been given, pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §I 7-27-303, finds that a public hearing has 
been held on a prop osed Cache County-Wide Comprehensive Plan and Land Use Element, and 
that the same should be adopted. 
THE REFORE, the Cache County Council hereby adopts the following Resolution: 
I. The proposed Cache County-Wide Comprehe nsive Plan and Land Use 
Element, as recommended by the Cache County Planning Conunission, is hereby adopted, without 
amendment. 
2. The Cache County-Wide Comprehensive Plan and Land Use Element shall be 
an advisory guide for land use decisions made under the existing Cache County Land Use 
Ordinance. 
3. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon adoption . 
This resolution was adopted by the Cache County Council on the 27t:hday of 
January , 1998. 
CACHECOUNTYCOUNC~ 
Chairman 
ATTES T: 
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE  
INTRODUCTION ........................................................... 1
CACHE COUNTY HISTORY ................................................. 1
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN .............................................. 3
ORGANIZATION OF THE PLAN ............................................. 4
USING THE PLAN .......................................................... 6
The Comprehensive Plan as a Decision Making Tool ........................ 6
The Comprehensive Plan and the Land Use Ordinance ...................... 6
MAINTAINING THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ................................ 6
Reviewing and Updating Process ......................................... 6
Amending the Comprehensive Plan ...................................... 7
IMPLEMENTATION POLICIES .............................................. 9
Land Use Element .................................................... 10
   General Implementation Policies ...................................... 10
County Land Use Ordinance Implementation Policies ...................... 21
   Map CP-1 ......................................................... 25
   Map CP-2 ......................................................... 33
ELEMENTS (See individual sections for separate Table of Contents)
Land Use 
Transportation (to be completed 1997)
Infrastructure (unknown completion date)
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan Page 1
-INTRODUCTION
We perform planning activities on a  daily basis.  We plan  our day at work, at home, or our leisure time.
We plan for our future by se tting personal or family goals.  These goals may be as simple as the
purchase  of a new car; however, the  process and events to attain  the goal may be complex and difficult.
Citizens  of Cache County have expressed  a need for a countywide plan of land  use, transportation, and
services  to meet the growing needs of the County.  The plannin g process for Cache County is not so
different from our individual planning process.  However, instead of planning for  a few we must plan
for current and future citizens.  This planning process can achieve order and balance within  the County
as the citizen’s work together to define goals in the Comprehensive Plan.
To insure proper planning f or Cache County, the County Council and Planning Commissions have
begun a long-range planning process to  guide the future development of the community.  The primary
purpose  of the plan is to recommend orderly future patterns of land u se and  transportation as well as
determine  the need for public facilities and services to meet the  anticipated growth of the  area.  Cache
County’s growth must be  viewed in the light of the capacity  of the county and communities to provide
services.
The planning process should result in a plan t hat represents the best expression of the community’s
public  interest and at the same time provide protection of the private interest.  This plan  is intended to
be a guide to which public officials will  refer when  important decisions must be made that will affect
the quality of life and environment of Cache County.  To accomplish this, the plan and  planning process
must be comprehensive and continuous so that all aspects of development  are covered and becomes an
integral part of the decision making process.
CACHE COUNTY HISTORY  
Cache  County is one  of three northern counties of Utah  along the southern border of Idaho; Box Elder
and Rich are the other two.  Th e County covers approximately 1,174 square miles within its
jurisdictional boundary.  Cache County is divided into two  distinct and different  areas, the valley and
mountainous areas.
Cache  Valley sits at an elevation of approximately 4,600 feet above  sea level and is surrounded on three
sides by the Bear  River Range. The valley is about 60 miles long and  15 miles wide.  Its land is fertile,
producing  various farm crops.  Cache Valley has always been known for its fine dairy herds. The
agriculture  industry has played an important  part in the history of the Valley and County.  There are  19
incorporated communities with Logan City being the largest. 
The Wellsville Mountain Range is one of the narrowest and steepest in North America.  This range
averages  about five miles wide at its base and ranges from 4,300 to 9,372 feet in elevation and forms
the western boundary of Cache  Valley.  The eastern boundary of Cache Valley is part of the Bear River
Mountain  Range,  part of the most valuable watershed  lands found east of Utah’s most populous  valleys
between Logan and Salt Lake City.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan Page 2
Early inhabitants of the Cache Vall ey were the no madic Shoshoni Indians who hunted and fished in
“Willow  Valley” named for the great willow trees that lined the streams and  river banks.  The valley was
a good hunting area for the Indians providing buffalo, elk, deer, and antelope for food and clothing. 
Mountain  men, found the streams and rivers ideal for trapping  beaver.   Such famous trappers  include
John Weber, Jim Bridger, Peter Skene Ogden,  Warren Angus Ferris, and Major “Black” Harris.  In 1824,
John Weber and young Jim Bridger with the Rocky  Mountain Company entered Cache Valley and made
their winter quarters along the Cub River. They were followed by Peter Skene  Ogden of the Hudson Bay
Company  in 1825.  There  probably was  not a year between 1824 and 1885 when trappers  or explorers
did not visit Cache Valley.
The name Cache Valley comes from the large number of  “caches” for furs and stores.  “Cache” is a
French  word that means ‘to hide.’  The mountain men would dig a hole or  pit six feet deep with a
smaller opening to store their  furs acquired from trapping.  A story has it that a fur trapper  was buried
alive when his just-completed “cache” collapsed.  The man’s body was never recovered and  the trappers
called it Cache Valley in his honor.
In addition to the trappers and mount ain men that explored and visited Cache Valley, there were a
number  of famous explorers that visited and surveyed the area. In 1843, John C. Fremon t visited th e
Valley  of the Bear River and followed its co urse to the northern part of the Cache Valley.  Howard
Stansbury,  of the Corps of the Topographical Engineers of the U.S. Army, made one of the ea rlies t
surveys of Cache Valley in August 1847.
In 1853, the first settlers came to Cache Valley.  It seems that all the settlements were chosen and
located  whe re wate r was available.  In 1855, Brigham Young sent 2,000 church-owned cattle, 1,000
privately-owned  animals, and a group of men north to Cache Valley.  The group decided to settle  on the
Blacksmith  Fork River, one mile  northeast of Nibley.  They built the first log cabin on this site and
called  the area  Elkhorn Ranch because of the large elk heads and antlers hanging over t he main gate
to the ranch.  That winter the livestock suffered because of lack of  feed.  An attempt was made to drive
the animals into the Salt Lake Valley by way of Beaver Dam, in moder n day Box El der County;
however, only 420 cattle survived.
After this first failure,  Mormon leaders sent another group led by Peter  Maughan.  Their settlement was
located  at the present site of Wellsville  and was called Maughan’s Fort.  Many different groups followed
and settled on sites where many communities are located today.
The influx of white men caused conflict with the Indians.  They harassed the settlers with petty  thievery
and occasional attacks  on isolated farms.  Peter Maughan advised the pioneers to locate in the Southern
end of Cache Valley for protection.   Even after these settlements were founded, the settlers would retreat
to Maughan’s Fort when the Indians  threatened.   The Battle of Bear River, the largest Indian battles this
side of  the Mississippi, was fought in January 1863 north of present-day Preston, Idaho.  A treaty was
signed in Brigham City which ended most problems with the Indians.
The Organic Act,  passed  by the U.S. Congress and signed by President Millard Fillmore September 9,
1850, conferred upon the governor and legislative body  of the new territory, Utah,  the power to appoint
or provide for elections for “all townships, districts, and county officers.”   In 1851,  the first territorial
legislat ure passe d legislation creating counties and providing the necessary officials.  This form of
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan Page 3
county government existed until  1896 when  Utah became a state.  The original Cache County took in
a much larger area than today’s County.  The north portion of the  Cache  County was lost when Idaho
became a State in 1890.
1860 was “boom” time for the Cache Valley. A large number of new people came into the V alle y
because  of the agricultural and water  potential.  In 1859, Peter Maughan wrote to the Desert Newspaper
describing  the Valley.  Brigham Young added to it, “No other valley in the  territory is equal to this.  This
has been my opinion ever since I first saw this valley.”  Much of this growth spurred development of
many of the communities o f today.  Th e Territorial Surveyor, Jesse Fox, surveyed the town sites and
fields for mos t of the Cache County communities.  As the population in Cache County continued to
grow, additio nal surveying was done by Jared Martineau.  Much of this survey work transformed the
forts of 1860 into the cities of 1865. These new communities, including Logan, Providence, Mendon,
Hyrum,  Smithfield, Richmond, Millville, Franklin, Clarkston, Weston and Paradise, were surveyed like
Salt Lake City with 10-acre blocks subdivided into 10 one-acre parcels.
From 1880 to 1910 has been called Cache Valley’s “Golden Age.”  Much of the development today  can
be traced back to this period of change in Cache Valley.  The communities of Cache Va lley played a
very important role in the life of the  residents of Cache Valley.  “The principal institution of  the period
from 1880-1910 was the local  town, community, or village.”  Cache Valley was made up of village units
and life centered in the villages.  People took pride in their village, its peculiarities , its hero s, and its
accomplishments.   “Each community had its general store, its bank, its creamery, and  its sugar factory--
or, at least almost every community  . . . Civic pride was an important motivating force in economic
activity and development.” (The History of the Valley )
In 1896, Phil Robinson, a British writer, described Cache  Valley as “Filled from mountain to mountain
with delightful farmsteads.”  Robinson was right about Cache County being full of farms; according  to
a “Report of the Governor of Utah, 1895”:  Cache County’s 3,842  farms were the most of any county in
the state.   A headline in the 1892 Logan Journal called Cache Count y, “The Granary of Utah--the
Loveliest  and Grandest Valley in the West.”  A variety of crops were grown here including  wheat, corn,
rye, barley, oats, potatoes, beets, hay, and lucern.  Fruit was also abundant with apples, peaches, apricots,
plums, pears,  and grapes  being grown.  Other farm products included cider, vinegar, sorghum, butter,
cheese, and honey.
Over the years, Cache County has maintained a rural, agr icul tural-based economy; however, the
twentieth  century has brought increasing urbanization of the County.  Today there is a strong , mixed
economic  base of agricultural and  non-agricultural industries. The Logan Urbanized  Area was created
based on population growth of  the 1990 United States Census.   Cache County will continue to grow and
change as it has throughout the history of this area.
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
This Comprehensive Plan is a written official statement that describes overall goals and strategies for
the desirable future development of the County.  The Plan  contains a detailed list of goals and  strategies.
T.J. Kent, one of the fathers of city planning theory,  describes a comprehensive plan’s functions within
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan Page 4
the community administrative framework as follows:
C To improve the physical environment of  the community  as a setting for human activities.
To make it more functional,  beautiful, decent, healthful, interesting, and  efficient.  This purpose
is in accord with  the broad objective of local government to promote the health, safety, order,
convenience,  prosperity and  general welfare of  the community.  The intent is to enhance what
already exists in the community.
C To promote the public intere st, the interest of the community at large, rather than the
interest  of individuals or special interest groups within the  community.   The comprehensive
nature  of the plan contributes to  this purpos e because it facilitates the consideration of
relationships  between any question pertaining  to the overall physical development of the  entire
community.   The plan is based on facts and on studies that attempt to  be thorough and impartial.
It helps to pre vent arbitrary, capricious, and biased actions.  The contributions of the Plan to
democratic responsible government help to safeguard the public interest.
C To facilitate the democratic  determination  and implementation of community policies on
physical  development.   The Plan is primarily a policy instrument.  The Plan constitutes a
declaration  of long range goals and provides the basis of a program to accomplish the goals.   By
placing  the responsibility for determining polic ies on the elected officials and providing an
opportunity for citizen participation, the Plan facilitates the democratic process.
C To affect political and technical coordination in community development.   Poli tica l
coordination  signifies that a majority with t he communit y is working toward the same end.
Technical  coordination means a logical  relationship among the physical elements  dealt within
the Plan and the efficient planning and scheduling of actu al im provements so as to avoid
conflict, duplication and waste.
C To inject long range considerations into the determination of short  range actions.  In effect,
this purpos e is intended to achieve coordination through time, to attempt to make sure that
today’s decisions will lead toward tomorrow’s goals.  The use of forecasts and the establishment
of long range goals  are significant features of the general  plan.  The Plan  represents an effort
to add the important time dimension to the decision making process.
C To bring professional and technical  knowledge to  bear on the making of political decisions
concerning  the physical development of the  community.   The purpose is intended to promote
wiser decision making, to a chie ve informed, constructive government.  Through the general
Plan, the special knowledge  of the professional planner is brought into play in the democratic
political process.
The importance of the Comprehensive Plan as a policy document and a general guide to the future
development  in Cache County should be emphasized.  The Plan is often considered to be  like a compass.
It sets the direction which the County and  municipalities should take,  but like the hiker in the woods,
an obstacle m ay necessitate a change in direction.  The obstacle may even alter the final destination.
One should remember, that once the Plan is  adopted, it does not become static but  is subject to change.
The economy, new administrations, and unforeseen events may hav e an impact on the Plan.  Thus, it
should be reevaluated from time to time to assure its relevancy.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan Page 5
In Cache County, this process of developing will take multiple years to complete.  Much effort was
placed  on ci tizen part icipation during the early stages of the Plan’s development.  The information
collected  from citizen involvement has been coupled with the Planning Commission and County Council
input as well as staff expertise to develop this final Plan.
ORGANIZATION OF THE PLAN
The Countywide Comprehensive Plan’s format is organized into three separate  sections. These  sections
include:  (1) Introduction;  (2) Implementation Policies;  (3) Elements.
Introduction  - defines the purpose and mission of the Comprehensive Plan and how  it should  be used
as a planning and decision-making tool for Cache Council and Planning Commission and communities
of Cache County.  It also discusses the process of reviewing, maintaining, and updating this Plan.
Implementation  policies -  The Countywide Comprehensive Plan  emphasis is on implementation  and
interconnection  of each element.  Much of   what is discussed in the individual  elements should result
in encouraging a particular action.  As different elements are  developed and adopted, this section will
be the focal point coordinating the implementation of the goals and strategies f rom the different
elements.   
The Implementation Policies section will be developed as a matrix that will identify the different
elements.   As each element  is adopted, their goals and strategies will be added to the matrix and the best
implementation  strategy will be developed.  Generally, the recommendations for implementing these
goals and strategies shall be done through special  programs, the subdivision  and land use ordinance, and
capital improvement programs.  
Elements  - are individual specialized plans within the  overall Countywide Comprehensive  Plan. The
following  are the current ly proposed individual elements for the Plan: Land Use, Transportation, and
Water Management.  Additional elements should and will be developed as needed.  The elements are
broken down into the following five chapters:
C Introduction  - a brief description of the mission and purpose to the element.
C Community  Profile - individual technical reports prepared for each element which contain data
and information that pertain to a particular subject. 
C Goals and Strategies  - presented at the ending of the document and are supported by the
“community profiles.”
C Appendix  - include s the addit ional information that needs to be included with each element.
This section also includes the public input to the plan.
C Bibliography  - includes a listing of all reference documents and information used in the
document.
Because each element will focus on a specialized area, this basic outline may vary  slightly.   This will
be determined by the  needs of each element.  There will be socioeconomic and demographic  data that
will develop for one element and be used in another.  To reduce redundancy in the Plan, different
elements may refer to others for information.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan Page 6
USING THE PLAN
The Utah  State Land Use Development and Management Act ( Utah State Code , Title 17 Counti es)
provides  a basic framework for local planning.  The provisions of this law and sever al court cas es
indicate  that a county  should prepare a comprehensive plan to  guide its land use decisions and provide
for: (1) The present and future needs of the residents, and;  (2) The growth and development of the land
within  the county or any part of the county.  The Countywide Comprehensive Plan should represent  a
road map by which appointed and  elected officials manage the future growth and development of Cache
County.
The Comprehensive Plan as a Decision-making Tool
As stated above, the Comprehensive Plan is a statement of  policy of the local legislative body regarding
the de sired direction for growth and development in a county.  This Plan then becomes a  decision -
making  tool by which all requests  and proposals  before the Planning Commission and County Council
are measured.  The planning process, by which the Plan was  developed, used an open and  participatory
process of gathering public input to reflect the public interest.
The Comprehensive Plan and the Land Use Ordinance
The Comprehensive Plan is a  planning tool for making policy  decisions.  The Land Use Ordinance is
the instrument by which these policies are implemented.  These two planning documen ts are interwoven.
In 1991,  the State enabling laws mandated there be consistency between the Comprehensive Plan  and
the Land Use Ordinance of the County.
MAINTAINING THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Planning  is more than the production of a comprehensive plan and regulatory ordinances.  It is a n
ongoing  process.  For this reason, the planning program adopted needs to be reassessed on a continuing
basis.  This is to take into account changing conditions in  the County as well as  new planning concepts
as they are developed.  It is important to unders tand that the Countywide Comprehensive Plan is a
“Living Document” which grows and changes over time.
Review and Updating Process  
The comprehensive planning process is a dy namic one.  The initial development and adoption of the
Comprehensive Plan and its elements are only the beginning of the total planning process.  No sooner
has the Plan been completed than the cycle of  researching new data,  evaluation and analysis of that data,
plan formulation and implementation  begins anew.  A  periodic reevaluation process helps to maintain
the validity of the goals and policies of the Comprehensive Plan.
The review and updating of the Comprehensive  Plan should be an ongoing process. Any  minor revisions
adopted by the Cache County Planning Commission are recommended to the Cache County Council.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan Page 7
C An annual review of  the Comprehensive Plan will  be submitted to the Planning Commission
for their review in November of each year.  As part of this process, a public hearing should be
held to receive citizen input.
C On a five-year period, the plan will have an update of all socioeconomic and demographic data
to ensure the Plan is current.  
C The elements and the Plan will have a total review  and rewrite of the document  every ten years
to  extend the term of the Plan.
C All recommended changes  to the Comprehensive  Plan will be submitted to the Cache County
Council for an evaluation, adoption or denial.
Amending the Comprehensive Plan
The amending of the Plan can take two different forms.  These are: First, the  Cache County  Planning
Commission/Council  can make amendments  through an annual review process; and, Second, by a formal
request  from the public.  It is important that  these processes exist since this document should deal with
changing conditions and  shall be used as a decision-making tool for the public policy makers.
The County’s annual review process was discussed in detail in the previous section.  This section  will
focus on the public request to change  the Plan.  From time to time, there will be requests to  change the
Comprehensive  Plan by individuals.  The Plan needs to remain flexible enoug h to chan ge if
circumstances  warrant.  Careful evaluation is necessary to accurately weigh the petitioner’s interest and
the interest of the community as a whole.
With a written application,   accompanying  documentation and supporting information, any individual
may request that the Co mprehensive Plan be changed.  Planning Commission members should judge
each application on its own merits, without concern of setting a precedent.  The following procedure
shall be followed:
C The Planning Commission will review each request and base a deci sion on the evidence
provided  by the applicant.  A recommendation should only be made after a public  hearing  has
been held and overwhelming data is presented to support the belief that the Comprehensive Plan
should be modified.
C The Planning Commission  will forward a recommendation to the County Council with  Findings
of Fact for their review of the proposal.   Another public hearing should be held to receive  public
input.
C To limit repetitive requests for changing the Comprehensive Plan, an individual may make the
same request no more than once in a twelve-month period.
The above process will help insure that the Countywide Comprehensive Plan will maintain  pace  with
the physical, social, technical and economic growth over the next twenty years.  This  updating process
plays an important part in keeping the goals, policies, and implementation  of the Plan both timely and
relevant.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan Page 8
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Implementation Policies Page 9
IMPLEMENTATION POLICIES
The Cache County-wide Comprehensive Plan  is a concerted a ttempt by County and City officials,
citizens,  and professional planners to combine  the following data  information, goals and strategies,  into
a set of comprehensive policy statements which will be used to guide future development.  The  Cache
County-wide  Comprehensive Plan 's primary intent is to directly influence the pattern, design and  quality
of projected development and growth that will take place between 1996  and the year 2020.  It is a guide
for the Cache County Planning Commissions and Communities in matters relating to land development.
In addition to addressing future social, economic and physical growth, the Plan's intent is to protect the
County and community's health, safety and general welfare.  
The Cache  County-wide Comprehensive Plan  summarizes all future land use and related development
within  the County’s unincorporated areas while recognizing and coordinating with each community’s
master  plan.  The plan recommends the desired p attern or appropriate location of specified land use
activities.   The overall intent of the plan is to promote compatible land uses while maintaining the
integrity  of the community.  The Implementation Policies are divided into the different Elements (Land
Use, Transportation, and Infrastructure) of  the Countywide Comprehensive Plan, and   becomes the focal
point of the Plan. The structure of th e Plan is designed to provide a method to deal with a number of
different  elements.  Each of these Elements will have a different set of goals and strategies. The graphic
below depicts the overall structure of the Countywide Comprehensive Plan.
The Implementation Poli cies are an expression of  the Goals and Strategies developed as part of the
different  Elements of the Countywide Comprehensive   Plan.  Each of  the Implementation Policies are
designed  to achieve the primary purpose of each Goal and Strategy.   No one recommended strategy is
preferred to another.  These are only possible recommendations for carrying out the overall goal.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Implementation Policies Page 10
LAND USE ELEMENT
The implementation policies for the Land Use Element are divided into two catego ries.  The fir st
category  is the Gen eral Implementation Policies that are general in nature and affect the County as a
whole.  These policies will requir e action on the part of the County, Cities, and private groups.  The
second  category is the County Land Use Ordinance Implementation Policies.  These policies are  specific
to Cache County as to the actions and  items the County must take to implement the policy.
GENERAL IMPLEMENTATION POLICIES
The general implementation policies, of the Land Use  Element, represent a broad set of  action oriented
policies.   These policies encourage  different entities or groups  to work together and coordinate in the
development  of differ ent land use plans and policies.  These policies may or may not reflect direct
changes  to the land use ordinances.  The overall intent is to identify all groups and give these groups
focused direction in developing coordinated land use development efforts.
DEVELOPMENT  OF A TIERED  URBAN GROWTH AND SERVICE BOUNDARY AROUND
LOGAN URBANIZED AREA
(Land Use Goals &Strategies:  A1, R1, R2, CI1, QL1 & T2)
The uncontrolled urban growth within Cache County has led to a land use pattern of uneven and
disjointed  urban developm ent.  Thi s land use pattern plus the loss of prime agricultural land due to
increasing  leapfrog development adds to the growing  problem of   an uncontrolled urban sprawl within
the County.  Continuance of  t his urban-sprawl growth pattern will begin to strain the budgets of
communities  trying to delive r th e necessary services to this inefficient pattern of development.  The
ultimate  outcomes are usually increased taxes, user fees, and impact fees to make up for the budget
shortfalls.
To effectively manage uncontrolled  urban sprawl and growth patterns requi res the deve lopment and
implementation of  an effective growth management policy.  It  is important to understand that growth
management  tools require regional cooperation  of all affected jurisdictions.  The most effective tool for
limiting  an urban sprawl is to define the areas where urban development shoul d and may take  place.
This is done with a growth management tool called an Urban Growth Boundary.
An Urban Growth Boundary is a line on a map used to mark the separation of urbanizable land from
rural land.   Urban development is limited and contained within the boundary for a specified period  of
time.  The proposed Urban Growth Boundary  will have two tiers: the urban service areas; and the urban
reserve areas.
C Urban  Service Areas -  are those areas in which urban se rvices are available now or will be
provided  in the immediate future (existing munic ipalitie s).  Urban services include such
things as water, sewer, roads, transit, police, and other types of services.
C Urban  Reserve Areas - are those areas outside an urban  service boundary, however, included
within  the urban growth boundary in  which future development and extension of services
are planned.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Implementation Policies Page 11
The following graphic depicts  an Urban Growth Boundary which encompasses  the urban service areas
and urban reserve areas.
Defining  the limits of the U rban Growth Boundary and individual tiers require a detailed analysis of
data about the region.  T he dr awing of the boundary lines on a map requires more than an arbitrary
decision.   A cooperative effort is needed to collect the necessary data to properly define the boundary.
To some extent the reason behind the need  for managing growth will determine  the kind of data to be
collected.
Implementation Recommendations:
C Form a working committee with repre sentatio n from each municipality and Cache County to
develop and define the different boundary lines
C Perform a detailed land use analysis of the Logan Urbanized Area (OPB Grant)
C Limit urban development to remain within the urban growth and service boundary’s tiers
C Supply  water and sewer service by public systems where possible  in the urban service areas
(Existing Municipalities)
C Limit any municipal annexations within the urban reserve boundary
C Evaluate  and adjust  the urban growth  and service boundary every five years as part of the County-
wide Comprehensive Plan update and review process
DEVELOPMENT  OF A PROCESS  AND GUIDELINES  TO ALLOW UNINC ORPORATED  EAS
TO CREATE LOCAL COMMUNITY COUNCILS
(Land Use Goals &Strategies:  A3, R1, R4 & QL4)
A major concern expressed by individuals at the  public open houses was that local areas had little or no
input in the decision-making process of the Cache Count y Planning Commission when reviewing an
application  for their area.   The most effective way  is to develop a mechanism by which local areas have
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Implementation Policies Page 12
the ability to review and make recommendation to the County Planning Commi ssion.  There are a
number  of methods by which this can be used to improve the public in put process.  The different
methods  for l ocal input available to the County can be divided in two different groups of formal and
informal structures.
The informal organization has no state statutory responsibility, but  is created based on the  local needs.
These  organizations  are created by local  regulations and the functions can be designed to meet the needs
of the local county.  They have different  names:  neighborhood districts, planning districts, community
councils,  and others.  Typically, these organizations are created at the  request by citizens of a local area.
Their primary responsibility is to act as a recommending body to  the local elected and  appointed bodies
of government.   For example, as part of the application process to the planning commission, a developer
would coordinate with the local community council board for a neighborhood mee ting to allow  for
review  before the County Planning Commission meeting.  The recommendations from co mmun ity
council  meetings with the developer would be forwarded  to the planning commission for consideration.
This allows local areas to have more formal input in the planning process.
Implementation Recommendations:
C Develop  a simple process to allow local areas to form community councils by petitioning  the County
Council
C Community Council Boards to be locally appointed residents from the unincorporated area
C Develop  an application review process for recommendation of local  planning issues  to the County
Planning Commission by the Community Council.
DEVELOP  A LONG-RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN FOR CACHE CO UNTY
CONSIST ENT WITH THE CACHE MPO’S MAJOR THOROUGHFARE PLAN FOR THE
LOGAN URBANIZED AREA
(Land Use Goals &Strategies:  A1, R3, CI1, Q L1, QL3, T1, T2, T3 & T4)
A unified and coordinated transportation system within the region  provides people the ability  to travel
from where they live to where they work, purchase goods and services, and  recreate.  A region’s
transportation  system does not just happen, and many factors play into the overall development of a
system.  If left alone and developed based on the dictates  of land-use development,  the transportation
system  would be woefully lacking.  The planning of a system needs  to be farsighted and  coordinated to
deal with today and future needs.
The development of a county-wide transportation plan for Cache County should be consi stent  with
existing  plans and those t hat are being developed.  There are many different players, such as federal,
state, and local government dealing with transportation; it is important that  their interests  and needs are
met.  The Cache Metropolitan  Planning Organization  (CMPO) has federal responsibility to develop a
Long-range  Tran sportation Plan for the Logan Urbanized Area.  This Plan is currently under
development  and was adopted in 1997.  The Logan Urbanized Area is  the most populated area in Cache
County  and encompasses the cities of Smithfield, Hyde Park, North Logan, Logan,  Rive r Heights,
Providence,  Millville, and  Nibley.  The development of a Countywide  Transportation Plan should use
the CMPO’s Plan as the basis for the rest of the region.
Implementation Recommendations:
C Identify all existing transportation plans and those under development
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Implementation Policies Page 13
C Prioritize the transportation needs and wants for the entire County
C Coordinate Countywide Transportation Elements with CMPO Plan for Logan Urbanized Area
RESIDENTIAL  DEVELOPMENT IN UNINCORPORATED AREAS OF CACHE COUNTY
SHALL BE LIMITED TO IMPROVED ROADWAYS
(Land Use Goals &Strategies:  A1, R1 & T2)
The relationship of roads and other  land use types is a reciprocal one.   Land-use development patterns
can and will affect transportation networks and travel demand.  Development  of roads will also affect
the locations of different land-use types.  It is necessary for  the road system to be  adequate enough to
provide  for both mobility  of the populace and accessability to land.  The County and cities must be  able
to provide a minimum level of services (police, fire protection, garbage collection, school buses, and
mail delivery) to all properties.  To  be able to provide and maintain this  level of service, road networks
providing access to land should have a minimum standard.
As urban development continues to expand into the un incorporated  areas of Cache County, the more
important  the road network becomes.  To ensure the County, cities, school districts, and other public
agencies  are able to  provide a minimum level of service to all property owners who live within the
County, a road network should be developed at the same standard as property is developed.
Cache  County’s current road standard  assumes that all roads should be developed at  one standard.   The
graphic  on the next page defines the  current road standards (Resolution No.  96-43) for Cache County.
Because  the importance of coordinat ing be tween jurisdictions and the different functionality of
individual  r oads , the County should develop a set of multiple road standards, depending upon the
function of road and location of the development.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Implementation Policies Page 14
Implementation Recommendations:
C Modify and expand current right-of-way standard for Cache County (Resolution No. 96-43)
C Coordinate  development  within close proximity to existing municipalities so that placement of uses
and right-of-way widths are compatible with the municipality
C As part of the Transporta tion Element, identify the functional classification of the County road
network
C Develop a set minimum standard to match the functional classification of the County roads
DEVELOP A WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR CACHE COUNTY
(Land Uses Goals &Strategies:  R3 & ES8)
There are 19 municipalities in Cache  County providing culinary water to their residents in addition  to
one special improvement district (Benson) an d fo ur (4) private water companies providing culinary
water to some  of the unincorporated area.  There are also more than 2500 individual wells  and springs
being used for culinary water sources.  In order to coordinate these different water systems and protect
existing  water rights, it is necessary to develop a  Water Management Plan as part of the Infrastructure
Element of the Comprehensive Plan.
Implementation Recommendations:
C Coordinate  with appropriate State agenc ies and offices in the development of the Water
Management Plan
C Coordinate  with local  public water systems, special improvement districts and water companies in
developing the Plan
C Utilize State grant monies for studies in surface  water and underground  water availability in Cache
County
C Utilize  results from studies using data relevant to Cache County’s  water sources and ways to better
utilize the available water to minimize waste
C Develop  an inventory of available water in Cache County (municipalities  and unincorporated areas)
C Project the water needs in Cache County in 10 years and 25 years
C Identify  potential sources of water to satisfy future needs  for water in Cache County (municipal,
industrial, agricultural, and recreational)
C Develop a plan to provide water for future needs
DEVELOP  SOURCE DELINEATION  AND PROTECTION PLANS FOR CULINARY  WELLS
AND SPRINGS
(Land Uses Goals &Strategies:  R3, ES2, ES8, & ES10)
There are more than  14000 water rights registered with the State Engineer’s Office in Cache County.
Approximately  2500 of those are for  wells and springs  designated as culinary sources.   Protection of
culinary  wells an d springs is critical because they are vulnerable to contamination.  The best way to
protect  your d rinking water source is to develop and enforce a Source Protection Plan.  Sources of
drinking water are valuable individual and  community assets and protecting them protects  the capital
invested  in them.  Protection programs must anticipate potential problems and should be established in
advance or they will be ineffective.
Water that does not need treatment for culinary use is worth substantially more than  wa ter that does
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Implementation Policies Page 15
need treatment.  Cache County  has ample groundwater, but  the high quality groundwater is much more
limited.   Leakage from sewage systems, seasonal failures of septic tank systems, and othe r threats to
groundwater contamination are important, but poorly understood factors.
Implementation Recommendations:
C Support  water sampling and recharge ar ea delin eation studies to support enforceable quality
protection ordinances
C Support  aquifer classification studies and defensible ordinance formulation to protect  potential and
existing water sources
C Identify  potential contamination sources
C Work with the State to develop programs to control potential contamination sources
DEVELOP A STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR CACHE COUNTY
(Land Use Goals &Strategies: ES9)
The potential for flooding in Cache County is very high.  However, in the past, the flood plains and
natural  wetland areas have  been able to handle flooding that has occurred.  The large irrigation canals
and systems have been able to allow large runoffs to be taken into the Bear River  and on into the Great
Salt Lake.
The increased population growth and urban development have begun  to encroach into areas  that handle
these historical floods. Development decreases the ability of the soil to naturally abs orb water.  This
adds to the potential flooding problems.  
Each municip ality must begin the development of a Flood Control Plan for their community.  The
County  will have an important role in the development of these plans.  Floo d control is a multi
jurisdict ional problem which crosses municipal boundaries.  Successful flood control requires the
coordination of all jurisdictions in developing a system that works.
Implementation Recommendations:
C Coordinate with the communities in development of their storm-water management plan
C Work with federal, state, and local entities to identify problem areas and solutions
C Work with local irrigation companies to protect their rights and systems
 FOLLOW LOGAN-CACHE AIRPORT MASTER PLAN
(Land Use Goals &Strategies:   R3 & ES1)
The Logan-Cache Airport serves as a general aviation airport and is classi fied a s a General Utility
airport  by the FAA.  The Logan-Cache Airport is jointly owned and operated by Cache County an d
Logan  City.  The Logan-Cache Airport Authority supervises the operations of the airport.  Members of
the Logan-Cache Airport Authority are  appointed by both Logan  City and Cache County.  The service
area for the Logan-Cache airport consists of Utah’s Cache and Rich Counties and portions of  Utah’s Box
Elder County and Idaho’s Franklin and Bear Lake Counties.
Implementation Recommendations:
C Keep the Logan-Cache Airport Master Plan updated
C Implement the recommendations of the Airport Layout Plan
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Implementation Policies Page 16
C Encourage compatible land use within close proximity to the airport.
C Maintain  and enlarge the Airport Hazard Zones and  Runway Protection  Zones as the Logan-Cache
Airport expands for safety and protection reasons.
FOLLOW COUNTY-WIDE SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN
(Land Use Goals &Strategies:   R3 & ES1)
Current  solid waste management is provided through a Service Area.   Service Area #1  is supervised by
a Board of Trustees made up of the members o f the Cache Co unty Council.  The Board of Trustees
appoints  members to the Solid Waste Advisory Boar d who  make recommendations to the Board of
Trustees.  They currently contract the day-to-day operation of the service area through Logan City to
provide collection and disposal of solid waste.
There is an adopted  Solid Waste Management Plan for the continuous  operation  of the Service Area.
It is important  that this plan  is implemented and the recommendations followed.  The development of
good land-use  plans adds support to existing plans and helps to support the overall intent of providing
service to the citizens of Cache County.
Implementation Recommendations:
C Keep the County-wide Solid Waste Management Plan updated
C Encourage a centralized transfer/disposal location
C Encourage residential development in locations where services can be economically provided
THE CACHE COUNTYWIDE COMPREHENSIVE  PLAN SHOULD PROVIDE  DIRECTION
TO THE FOREST SERVIC E MANAGEMENT PLAN TO BE TTER MANAG E
DEVELOPMENT WITHIN THE NATIONAL FOREST AREAS OF CACHE COUNTY
(Land Use Goals &Strategies:  R7, CI2, CI4, QL1 & QL2)
The Forest Service manages 336,347 acres or approximately 45  percent of Cache  County’s land area.
The Cache National Forest also includes two wilderness  areas.  Much of  this area is some of the most
scenic  and beautiful in Utah; there are large  tracts of privately owned land interspersed. The
management  of these areas should be done to protect  the property owner’s  rights, but at the same time
coordinating with the Forest Service Management Plan for these areas. 
Implementation Recommendations:
C Coordinate  with the Forest  Service in updating  the  Management Plan for the National Forest lands
in Cache County
C Modify  and update the Countywide  Comprehensive Plan,  where necessary,   to coordinate with the
Forest Service Management Plan
C Coordinate with the National Forest Service in developing new Land Use Ordinance standards
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Implementation Policies Page 17
DEVELOP  STANDARDS FOR URBAN DEVELOPMENT ON UPPER BENCH AREA TO
LIMIT  THE POTENTIAL  HAZARDS FROM WILDFIRES AND ALLOW FOR  SAFE URBAN
DEVELOPMENT.
(Land Use Goals &Strategies:  R1, R7, CI1, CI2, QL4 & T1)
As urban development takes place on  the upper ben ch areas of Cache County, there are increasing
problems  with wildfire. The primary concern  is that wildfires on public lands spread to increasing urban
development  on these upper bench areas.  The ability to prevent fire and damage to urban  development
and non-urban public land increasingly becomes more difficult.
Implementation Recommendations:
C Work with Federal and State  agencies in the identification of potential  areas with high fire danger.
C Develop  a set of standards for  “defensible spaces” for  urban development in these areas of high fire
danger.
ACKNOWLEDGE  PRIME AND STATE WIDE SIGNIFICANT FARMLANDS FOR
PROTECTION AND LIMIT DEVELOPMENT ON THESE LANDS
(Land Use Goals &Strategies:  A1, A2 & CL1)
Farmland  is one of the most important assets of Cache County; agriculture adds to the quality of life.
The  economic impact of agriculture can  be  identified by the number of jobs created  and the sales of
agricultural  products. The need to  protect these lands is one of the most important  efforts of the County-
wide Comprehensive Plan.
Implementation Recommendations:
C Coordinate  with State agencies, USU Extension Service, USU Exp eriment Station, and Soil
Conservation Districts (North Cache & Blacksmith Fork) to identify the important farmlands
C Work with local efforts in the creation of a Land Trust to provide farmers  with options to preserve
farms
C Work with the State to upgrade and use Agriculture Protection Areas (USC17-41-101)
INCLUDE  AND PROMOTE AGRICULTURE  AND AGRICULTURAL INDUSTRIES  TO THE
ECONOMIC  DEVELOPMENT AGENDA THE SAME AS OTHER COMMERCIAL A ND
INDUSTRIAL BUSINESSES
(Land Use Goals &Strategies:  A2 & CI6)
Typically,  agriculture has been viewed  for its v alue as open space and quality of life.  Municipalities
tend to view agricultural  lands as areas for future urban development.   In many cases these Agricultural
Zoned  areas are considered no more than a holding zone for more urban-type zoning in the future.  The
economic  importance of agriculture and agricultural industries has been treated as a se condary issue.
Agriculture  and agricultural industries provide a valuable and important portion  of the local economy
by its direct sale of agriculture  products.   Agriculture and agricultural industries  are an important part
of the economy of Cache County.  Th e los s of this industry with related jobs would have a dramatic
effect  on the local economy.  A s the area is promoted for economic development, it is important that
agriculture and agricultural industries are part of those promotional efforts. 
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Implementation Policies Page 18
Implementation Recommendations:
C Work with Cache  Economic Development to include  agriculture and agricultural industries as part
of the economic development agenda
C Work with local agricultural groups to increase the understanding of the value of agriculture
C Coordinate with the USU Extension Office, and Experiment Station to promote agriculture
DEVELOPMENT  OF IMPACT FEES, IF NEEDED, SHOULD BE DONE ON A REGIONAL
BASIS TO LIMIT URBAN SPRAWL AND PREVENT DEVELOPMENT SHOPPING
(Land Use Goals &Strategies:  R1 & R2)
Many local governments have suffered from the fiscal impact of developments  which places stress upon
public  facilities until tax revenues can be g enerated.  In many cases, when the tax revenues finally
flowed,  they were found to be inadequate.   A remedy for this shortfall used by many local communities
has been the imposition of a fee based upon anticipated dwelling units or population to assure  that parks,
streets, storm sewers, etc., would be in place to satisfy demand.
As the use of these  fees increases, it is important that they should not  create unnecessary competition
for development among communities.  Many  of these fees  can be developed, used, and distributed on
a regional basis.  These impact fees can provi de th e needed revenue to improve the necessary
infrastructure at the time of development without pitting one community against the other.
Implementation Recommendations:
C Work with communities to identify potential impact fees that could be done on a regional basis
C Encourage  communities  to w ork together when considering potential impact fees that could be
implemented regionally
C Work with different groups that may use impact fees
ACKNOWLEDGE  THE LIMITATIONS OF THE USE OF SEPTIC TANK SY STEMS  IN
PRIMARY  AND SECONDARY RECHARGE AREAS AND GROUND-WATER  SENSI TIVE
AREAS OF THE COUNTY
(Land Use Goals &Strategies:  R3, CL2 & ES8)
One of the most important environmental issues is  the protection  of the ground water.  There are more
than 2000 wells and springs that are used as culinary water sources for homes and businesses.  As  the
number  of wells increase, the  potential for groundwater contamination will also increase.  The number
of septic systems is not the primary issue, but where these septic systems are being located.
Currently  much of the residential development is being located on the upper bench areas of Cache
Valley  for their views. These upper bench areas are  the primary or secondary recharge areas for Cache
County  ground water that is recharged every year  by melting snow.  Increasing residential  development
in these areas is a major concern because of increased concentration of septic systems in these recharge
areas.  As concentrations increase, the potential of groundwater contamination increases.
Implementation Recommendations:
C Support  delineation studies of recharge  areas to support enforceable,  quality protection ordinances
C Support  aquifer classification studies  and defensible  ordinance formulation to protect groundwater
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Implementation Policies Page 19
C Identify potential contamination sources
C Coordinate with the State to develop programs to control potential contamination sources
DEVELOPMENT  OF CONSISTENT LAND  USE  POLICIES  AND ENFORCEMENT OF ALL
COUNTY ORDINANCES
(Land Use Goals &Strategies:  R2, R3, R4, QL3, QL4, QL5 & ES1)
The regulatory functions of the County  to develop land use  policies and enforcement of codes can be
an uncomfortable exercise at best.  However, it  is important for the public to have consistent land use
policies.   Citizens expect the ordinance and policies will be fairly  enforced.  As the County  population
increases,  the need for better enforcement increases.  This will require  well defined and consistent land
use policies. 
Implementation Recommendations:
C Develop clear standards for dumping, junky yards, noise, air, animals, and zoning
C Develop clear and defined enforcement procedures that are consistent and fair
C Consider development and implementation of a fix-it ticket program for enforcement
C Develop a clear policy for protection of agriculture
DEVELOP  AND IMPLEMENT A COUNTY-WIDE POLI CY FOR MODERATE-I NCOME
HOUSING (UCS 10-9-307 & 17-27-307)
(Land Use Goals &Strategies:  R2 & R5)
The Utah Legislature has determined th at municipalities and counties should afford a reasonable
opportunity for a variety of housing.  This should include moderate-income housing to meet the needs
of people desiring to live in a community.  Moderate-income housing should be encoura ged to a llow
persons  with moderate incomes  to benefit from, and to fully participate in, all aspects  of neighborhood
and community life.  Moderate-inc ome h ousing is defined as housing occupied or reserved for
occupancy  by households with a gross household  income equal to or less than 80 percent of the median
gross income of the metropolitan-statistical area for households of the same size.
Implementation Recommendations:
C Estimate  the existing supply of moderate-in come  housing located within the municipalities and
county
C Estimate  and revise annually the need for moderate-income housing in the municipalities and coun ty
for the next five years
C Survey total residential zoning
C Show an evaluation of how exi sting zoning density’s affect opportunities for moderate-income
housing
C Development  of a program by municipalities and the County to encourage an a dequate supply of
moderate-income housing
IMPLEMENT  A SIMPLE DEVE LOPMENT  REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCESS (ONE-
STOP SHOPPING).
(Land Use Goals &Strategies:  A3, R4, CL5 & QL4)
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Implementation Policies Page 20
The primary function of government  is to provide services to the citizens of a community.  The average
citizen  spends very little time involved with government; at times, people become involved with
government  in uncomfortable and unfriendly situations.  These circumstances  usually deal  with taxes,
licensing  of motor vehicles, and violations.  Government should provide more  of a service-orientation
training for County employees to better deal with these situations in serving the public.
Most public offices have  an approval process that is complex and confusing to  most residents.  Many
times the individual is passed from one office to another based on the requirements of the diff erent
offices.  The current structure of  the government creates this separateness between public  offices.  To
develop  a simple review and approval process requires the cooperation  and coordination of the different
departments and entities of the government.
Implementation Recommendations:
C Coordinate  the different needs of  local government offices (Zoning, Building, Clerks, Health, and
Fire Departments).
C Identif y the steps o f the review and approval process and modify them to make the process more
customer friendly.
C Modify ordinances and code requirements to make the review and approval process simpler.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Implementation Policies Page 21
COUNTY LAND USE ORDINANCE IMPLEMENTATION POLICIES
Zoning  and land use ordinances are the most commonly used tools for the implementation of a
comprehensive or general plan.  They are designed to implement the  plan’s goals and  public policies,
to assure a compatible interrelationship of land uses  in such a way that the health, safety,  and general
welfare of the county are promoted and protected.
The objective of a land use ordinance is to  establish  regulations that provide locations for all essential
uses of land and buildings and to ensure that each is located appropriately.  T he ordinan ce should
discourage  nuisances that tend to create blight or other problems.  The l and us e ordinance can, and
should,  be used creatively.  Uses that may be incompatible in one location may be welcome in another.
The designation of an appropriate location for all legitimate uses, not just  the segregation  of uses, is the
challenge and responsibility of creative land use ordinances.
The following implementation  policies are recommendations concerning the Cache County Land  Use
Ordinances.   Because implementation policies are recommendations and general in nature, they do not
reflect  the final wording of the land use ordinance.  These policies are intended to act as a guideline and
a  reference in  the development process  of Cache County’s land use ordinances.  The legal limitation
of state and federal statutes and court cases will determine the final product.
DEVELOP STANDARDS FOR RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT BASED ON DENSITY
(Land Use Goals &Strategies: A1, R1, R4, R7, & T2)
Block-style  zoning was originally developed and designed by  communities to segregate  incompatible
uses (dry cleaners from residential units - San Francisco) and has been used for years throughout this
country.   This style  of zon ing lays out precise requirements for uses and quality of development.
However,  when this type of zoning is applied to  a regional system like Cache County with its unique
and different environs, it fails to meet the needs of the County.   A more flexible system is needed  to deal
with the complex and unique issues of this region. 
A primary concern expressed by Farmers  and other individual property owners  during the public open
houses,  was the increased development of residential homes and subdivisions within  the unincorporated
areas of Cache C ounty.  The municipalities also expressed helplessness and concern for what they
perceive  as uncontrolled development just outside their jurisdictional  borders  with little or no concern
for their future development plans.   With urbanization comes loss of  valuable farmland and the  potential
loss o f thei r right to continue to farm.  Many individual property owners were concerned with the
protec tion of their property rights to develop their land for homes for themselves and their p osterity .
To meet these needs and still limit urban development to those existing urban area s, a resid ential
density-base zoning is recommended.
How does residential density-based zoning  work and how will it be used to protect  agricultural lands?
Under the current zoning system, there is direct competition between agriculture  and r esidential
development  for the same land.  Residential density-based zoning recognizes the need for both  uses and
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Implementation Policie s Page 22
develops  compatibility  b etween residential development and agricultu ral land.   The graph ic below
depicts  a plat of land within the county and how residential density would  be applied.  For this example,
it is assumed  that these parcel s are located withi n an area which is def ined as a moderate densi ty area
(1 unit per 10 acres).
The owner of the 30.79 acr e parcel would like  to subdivide  lots for his family and sale to a friend.  This
parcel  is located in a mode rate density range w hich allows one resid ential unit per 10 acre s.   The
property  owner would be allowed to subdivide three l ots from the 30 .79-acre parc el.  Parcels fo r
residential  homes would be 1 .5 to 2 acre s per parcel.  Lot s of this si ze are based on bank fi nancing,
culinary well, and septic  tank limitations .  For this example, the owner created three two-acre parcels
or six acres for residential lots.  Th e remaining 24.7 9 acres is left in agr icultural use.   The residential
development  right has been tr ansferred to the three residenti al lot s.  This tra nsfer of the res idential
development  right would  be recorded with the deed of the property so that future purchasers would  be
informed of the limit ations to the pr operty.
The plat also shows some parcels that are smaller than the ten-acre density require ment.  T hese lots
would be con sidered legal l ots, but wo uld be  allowed one  single family d welling dev eloped on t hem.
This would, however, depend u pon whether  the lot was legally subdivid ed and approved by the Count y.
Implementat ion Recomm endations:
C Develop a set of st andards for resi dential density- based zoning
C Develop a system to tr ansfer and record t he residential dev elopment rights on deed s
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Implementation Policies Page 23
C Adopt the following residential-based density ranges based on  the public input from the second
round of Public Open Houses
RESIDENTIAL DENSITY RANGES
Density Units per Acre
Very High
High
Medium
Low
Very Low
Existing Municipalities
1/5
1/10
1/20
1/40
C Use the developed map on the following page as the basis of density ranges for Cache County
DEVELOP   STANDARDS FOR CLUSTERING  RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT TO  LIMIT
URBAN  SPRAWL AND CENTRALIZE SERVICES (GARBAGE, MAIL, UTILITIES, ETC.)
(Land Use Goals &Strategies:  A1, R1, R3, & R4)
As urban development continues to spread into the rural areas of Cache County using farm  land, forests,
and wildlife habitat, the use of clustered development  has high potential to preserve the rural character.
Cluster development can preserve  a percentage of a parcel as open space  allowing preservation of the
uses that people associate with rural countryside.
To effectively develop a clustering system as a tool  to preserve the rural character  of the County, one
must define and characterize the  difference  between the urban and rural areas.  The rural areas of Cache
County  a re outside the existing municipalities and are characterized as a mixture of farms, forests,
undeveloped  open spaces,  waterways, wildlife habitat, and absence of urban amenities, such as street
lights and sidewalks.
A major advantage of cluster development is that it allows for limited housing development while
preserving  activities characteristic of the rural landscape.  Clustering  can contribute to the  preservation
of resources such as water quality, stream flow, floodplain, steep slopes, geologic hazards, we tlands,
wildlife  habitat,  aquifer recharge areas, and soils unsuitable for septic systems.  Clustering can benefit
landowners  and developers by reducing costs over conventional development.  If the standards are
flexible, it also allows for lot siting to take advantage of views and other site features.
Implementation Recommendations:
C Set minimum and maximum lot sizes based on Health  Department standards for well and  septic tank
needs
C Make approval process simple and streamline to minimize regulations
C Develop incentives and lot bonuses to encourage clustering of residential homes
C Lots should be located with respect to topography and other site features
C Lots should not be located on prime or statewide important farmlands where possible
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Implementation Policies Page 24
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Implementation Policies Page 25
MAP CP-1
Cache County Residential
Density Ranges
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Implementation Policies Page 26
MAP CP-1
Back page of Density Map
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Implementation Policies Page 27
DEVELOP SUBDIVISION STANDARDS TO STREAMLINE AND SIMPLIFY THE
REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCESS
(Land Use Goals &Strategies:  A1, R1, R2, R3 & T2)
Subdivision regulations are one of the important tools that counties and municipalities have to
regulate the orderly development of their community.  Subdivision regulations are used to protect
both prospective home buyers and local government units from the practices of some  developers. 
Subdivision regulations are recognized as an important influence on development, whether it is in
the unincorporated county or in a municipality.  Once large tracts of land have been carved up into
streets, blocks, and lots, and have been publicly recorded, the pattern is difficult, if not impossible to
change, except with costly redevelopment programs.
Subdivision standards are regulations that govern how land is divided.  Many consider only the large
urban residential development as a subdivision; this is not the case.  Utah State Code clearly defines
what constitutes a subdivision of Land (USC 10-9-103(r)(i) & 17-27-103(r)(i).  Below is the
definition for a subdivision for State Code.
“Subdivision” means any land that is divided, resubdivided or proposed to be divided into
two or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots, or other division of land for the purpose, whether
immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease, or development either on the installment plan or
upon any and all other plans, terms, and conditions.
“Subdivision” includes the division or development of land whether by deed, metes and bounds
description, devise and testacy, lease, map, plat, or other recorded instrument.
“Subdivision” does not include a bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for
agricultural purposes.
Based on this definition, the simple dividing of one parcel into two or more lots is considered a
subdivision.  State Code for Counties, however, exempts divisions of agricultural land for
agricultural purposes.
Implementation Recommendations:
C Limit subdivisions to no more than five (5) lots in the Agriculture Zone of Cache County on
prime or statewide significant soils
C Major subdivision of more than five (5) lots may be considered only on soils which are not
Prime or Statewide Significant as determined by the USDA Soil Survey and after a concept
review by the Planning Commission
C Subdivisions in the Agricultural Zone may have three lots by right and an additional two lots
with performance standards (clustering, combining of large agricultural parcels, etc.)
C To limit the processing and approval time and effort of the property owner, the Land Use
Ordinance should provide for a simple metes and bounds or lot-split subdivision (maximum two
lots) with standards
C Metes and bounds or lot-split subdivisions shall include the following standards:
- Maximum size limited to two legal lots
- Lots may not be resubdivided
- Lots shall have direct access to a public right-of-way (private lanes and dedication of new roads
by Planning Commission approval)
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Implementation Policies Page 28
- All other divisions of land, which do not meet the above standards, will be required to go
through the regular subdivision process
DEVELOP A SET OF STANDARDS THAT ARE CONSISTENT WITH THE CLOSEST
MUNICIPALITY
(Land Use Goals &Strategies:  R8, T2, T3 & T4)
There are 19 separate municipalities in Cache County.  Each of these municipalities have different
general plans, zoning, and/or land use ordinances.  The County is constantly faced with the problem
of development within close proximity to the jurisdictional boundary of these individual
municipalities.  Many times the development standards have been less than the municipality or there
was little consideration given to the general plan of the community.  These problems necessitate that
Cache County and municipalities develop a better working relationship.
There are a number of ways to improve the coordination between jurisdictions.  The primary method
is to begin to develop a set of consistent development standards.  This does not mean that each
jurisdiction should adopt the same land use ordinances and standards.  Development standards
should be based on each jurisdiction’s general plan and the needs of the community.  However, there
should be some standards that are consistent between jurisdictions and these could be identified and
developed to limit the conflicts between them.  Also, there should be a better reviewing process
between Cache County and the different municipalities.  This would help improve the
communication between the County and the cities.
Implementation Recommendations:
C Develop standards to include the following:
- Lot size (based on existing plans)
- Right-of-way standards and dedication
- Access
- Signage
C Develop a formal application reviewing process between the County and the municipalities
MAKE ZONES WITH LISTS OF USES TO BE CONSISTENT WITH THE PURPOSE OF
THE ZONE
(Land Use Goals &Strategies:  A1 & C2)
A zoning ordinance should have a consistent structure that would provide for an easily read and
understood ordinance.  Each zone of the Land Use Ordinance is divided into three sections.  These
sections are:  the purpose, a list of allowed uses (permitted and conditional), and a set standard or
regulations for the  zone. These sections help to maintain the integrity of the zone.
Implementation Recommendations:
C Develop a clear and concise purpose for each zone
C Review and revise the list of allowed and conditional uses
C Develop a central section of clearly understood definitions
     
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Implementation Policies Page 29
DEVELOP A STATEMENT TO INTERFACE RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT WITH 
WILDLIFE AREAS TO LIMIT THE IMPACT
(Land Use Goals &Strategies:  R1, R7, CI1, CI2, QL4 & T1)
As development takes place on the upper bench areas of  Cache County, there is increasing concern
with the residential/wildlife interface.  The residential/wildlife interface areas are those where
residential development is located that may have the most potential conflicts with wildlife areas. 
REVISE AND DEVELOP SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR LOGGING AND MINING
OPERATIONS
(Land Use Goals &Strategies:  C2, C3, & C4)
Commercial logging and natural-resource extraction operations can have major impacts on land. 
These types of operations and businesses are necessary and lawful. The development of regulations
for commercial logging and natural-resource extraction operations should not focus on limiting the
business, but with helping the owners to manage the impacts on the land.
These projects may be long-term operations and have lasting impacts on the environment; therefore, 
it is important that a master plan for the life of the operation be developed and approved by the
County Planning Commission.  This allows the business and County to save time, not only in the
approval process, but in the long-term operation of the business.  A master plan of the project helps
define the operation, impacts and mitigation efforts of the impacts. 
Implementation Recommendations:
C Develop standards for operation of commercial logging and natural-resource extraction
operations
C Businesses shall develop a Master plan for the operation which shall include the following
-  Operations Plan
-  Transportation Plan
-  Reclamation Plan
DEVELOP A NEW POINT SYSTEM TO REVIEW DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS FOR THE
COUNTY
(Land Use Goals &Strategies:  R1)
A point system is a method by which new development is reviewed.  Usually, the points or credits
are awarded on a basis of distance of the proposed development site from existing facilities such as
water lines, sewer lines, major streets, schools, and other facilities.
Cache County’s  point system is used as a guide in the approval process for new single family
dwellings on agricultural lands.  The numerical point system evaluates a project based on the seven
areas listed below:
C Culinary Water
C Septic Tank Systems
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Implementation Policies Page 30
C Farmland Evaluation
C Land Use Compatibility
C Road Conditions-
  garbage collection
  ambulance service
C Sensitive or Hazardous Site Conditions
C Mitigation of Sprawl-
  school bus stops
  fire stations
A point or permit system can provide an effective method of reviewing and approving projects.  This
type of system allows a developer or property owner to work much closer with the staff and Planning
Commission approval process. 
Implementation Recommendations:
C Revise and update the Land Use Ordinance point system as circumstance’s warrant
UPDATE THE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR THE FOREST - RECREATION ZONE
(FR-40) TO DEAL WITH CURRENT NEEDS AND CONDITIONS OF THE AREAS
(Land Use Goals &Strategies:  R6, R7, CI1, CI2, QL1, QL2, ES2 & ES8)
The Forest Recreation Zone is the  largest zone of land area in Cache County and covers
approximately 498,000 acres or 66 percent of the land area of the County.  Most of this area, about
70 percent or 350,000 acres, is under public ownership;  the remaining 30 percent or about 145,000
acres is under private ownership.  This area of the County is fairly undeveloped and has little or no
services available.
The Forest Recreation Zone was originally developed as part of the 1970 Cache County Ordinance. 
The current ordinance and standards have changed very little from the original ordinance.  The
purpose of the zone remains the same.
6-1 Purpose
To permit the proper use of the forest areas of Cache County for grazing, forestry,
mining, recreation, and other activities to the extent compatible with the protection of
the natural and scenic resources of the forest for the benefit of present and future
generations.
Development in these areas has primarily been limited to recreational development.  This
development has been consistent with the intent and purpose of the zone.  As people move into Utah,
there will be increasing demands for more property to be used for recreation.  With this increasing
demand for recreational development, it will be important for the Forest Recreation Zone to continue
to maintain its primary purpose and integrity. 
Implementation Recommendations:
C Develop standards so that uses are consistent with the purpose of the zone
C Coordinate the Forest Recreation Zone with new overlay zones for canyons
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Implementation Policies Page 31
DEVELOP OVERLAY ZONES WITH STANDARDS THAT ARE UNIQUE FOR EACH OF
THE MAJOR CANYONS (LOGAN, BLACKSMITH FORK, WELLSVILLE, AND SOUTH
CANYON)
(Land Use Goals &Strategies:  R6, R7, CL1, CL2, QL1, & QL2)
An overlay zone is a mapped zone that imposes a set of requirements in addition to those of the
underlaying zoning district.  In an area where an overlay zone is established, property is placed
simultaneously in the two zones and may be developed only under the conditions and requirements
of both zones.
Typically, overlay zones are applied when there is a special public interest in a geographic area that
does not coincide with the underlying zone.  Some of the more common uses for such zones relate to
special environmental features that restrain development.  Floodplain zones and wet soils overlay
zones are good examples.  Other uses are to maintain the integrity of historic areas, to preserve
views, to restrict areas to public uses, and to limit building height in certain areas.
Overlay zones are described in the zoning text which has been mapped and adopted by the governing
body in a manner similar to conventional zoning.  Provisions are administered through usual zoning
processes.  Since  overlay zones are tied to the zoning map the courts are not likely to overturn their
provisions in initial determinations if allowable uses are reasonable.
Overlay zones are site specific and retain most of the elements of the familiar zoning process.  But
through their limited flexibility, they are an opportunity to implement site-specific public policies,
especially with regard to environmental protection.
Implementation Recommendations:
C Develop design and performance standards for development in each overlay zone
C The design and performance standards should include the following:
- Design consistency with surrounding environment
- The setting and development of a parcel should be based on natural limitations
- Use of natural materials
- Set height limitation
LIMIT COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT TO EXISTING ZONES
WHERE POSSIBLE
(Land Use Goals &Strategies:  A1, CI1, T2)
Commercial and industrial development is a major portion of the economy of Cache County.  There
is a need for some commercial and industrials zoning to be located within the unincorporated County
to provide areas for citizens to shop for goods and services as well as to provide places of
employment.  These zones should not be located where they would create land use conflicts, but it is
important that these areas be convenient and accessible to the public.  
Implementation Recommendations:
C Identify existing commercial and industrial zoned areas
C Evaluate existing businesses to determine if there should be new zones identified
C Encourage commercial and industrial development in municipalities where possible
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Implementation Policies Page 32
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Implementation Policies Page 33
MAP CP-2
Cache County Commercial and
Industrial Areas
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Implementation Policies Page 34
MAP CP-2
Back page of Commercial Zone Map
/67/65/67/72/69/32/67/79/85/78/84/89
/82/69/83/73/68/69/78/84/73/65/76/32/68/69/78/83/73/84/89/32/82/65/78/71/69/83
/49 /48 /49 /50 /51 /52 /53 /77/105/108/101/115
/82/101/115/105/100/101/110/116/105/97/108/32/68/101/110/115/105/116/121/32/82/97/110/103/101/115
/86/101/114/121/32/72/105/103/104
/72/105/103/104
/77/111/100/101/114/97/116/101
/76/111/119
/86/101/114/121/32/76/111/119
/67/105/116/121/32/66/111/117/110/100/97/114/121
/67/111/117/110/116/121/32/82/111/97/100/115
/83/116/97/116/101/32/72/105/103/104/119/97/121/115
/77/65/80/32/67/80/45/49
/67/65/67/72/69/32/67/79/85/78/84/89
/67/79/77/77/69/82/67/73/65/76/32/38/32/73/78/68/85/83/84/82/73/65/76/32/65/82/69/65/83
/49/48/49/50/51 /77/105/108/101/115
/67/105/116/121/32/66/111/117/110/100/97/114/121
/67/111/109/109/101/114/99/105/97/108/47/73/110/100/117/115/116/114/105/97/108/32/65/114/101/97/115
/67/111/117/110/116/121/32/82/111/97/100/115
/83/116/97/116/101/32/72/105/103/104/119/97/121/115
/77/65/80/32/67/80/45/50
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element
LAND USE ELEMENT 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE     
INTRODUCTION ......................................................... 1
PLANNING DISTRICTS ................................................... 3
POPULATION ........................................................... 11
LAND USE .............................................................. 19
PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT .............................................. 31
AGRICULTURE ......................................................... 55
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT .......................................... 65
COMMERCIAL ......................................................... 71
TRANSPORTATION ..................................................... 83
ESSENTIAL FACILITIES AND SERVICES .................................. 95
GOALS AND STRATEGIES .............................................. 107
APPENDIX ............................................................. 131
BIBLIOGRAPHY ....................................................... 149
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element
TABLES PAGE
LU-1 Cache County Population .......................................... 11
LU-2 Counties Profile Comparison-1990 .................................. 11
LU-3 Cache County Population (UPED) Projection (1950-2020) ................ 15
LU-4 Utah State Population (UPED) Projection (1950-2020) ................... 16
LU-5 Utah State University Full-Time Enrollment (1970-2020) ................ 16
LU-6 Cache County Generalized Land Use ................................. 24
LU-7 Cache County 1995 Land Ownership ................................. 25
LU-8 Construction Limitations Based on Soil Type .......................... 37
LU-9 Rivers, Streams and Creeks of Cache Valley ........................... 39
LU-10 Reservoirs of Cache Valley ........................................ 43
LU-11 National Ambient Air Quality Standards .............................. 51
LU-12 Cache County Vehicles and VMT Trends 1990-1994 .................... 52
LU-13 Soil Classification and Limitations ................................... 55
LU-14 Cache County Prime and Statewide Important Farmland Soils ............. 56
LU-15 Farmland by Type and Acreage ..................................... 57
LU-16 Cache County Livestock ........................................... 62
LU-17 Dwelling Unit by Type and Planning District .......................... 65
LU-18 Age of Housing by Planning District ................................. 66
LU-19 Average Rental Cost by the Number of Bedrooms ...................... 67
LU-20 Condition of Dwelling Units in Cache County .......................... 68
LU-21 Cache County: Existing and Projected Employment by Industry, 1990-2020 .. 77
LU-22 Road Ownership ...  ............................................ 84
LU-23 Right-of-Way Functional Classification ............................... 87
LU-24 General Characteristics of Streets .................................... 87
LU-25 Federal and State Designated Highways and Classification ................ 88
LU-26 Railroad Crossing and Relative Hazard ............................... 92
LU-27 Police Service Needs in Cache County ...............................  96
LU-28 Fire Districts Zones, Equipment and Manpower ........................ 97
LU-29 Municipal Water Systems ......................................... 101
LU-30 Service District and Water Companies ............................... 102
LU-31 Municipal Sewer Systems in Cache County ........................... 102     
LU-32 School Districts and Schools by Type and Enrollment .................. 104
MAPS PAGE
LU-1 Planning Districts ................................................. 5
LU-2 Cache County Areas .............................................. 21
LU-3 Ownership Map .................................................. 27
LU-4 Cache County Liquefaction Potential ................................. 35
LU-5 Cache County Water Bodies ........................................ 41
LU-6 Cache County Wetlands ........................................... 45
LU-7 Cache County Flood Plains ......................................... 49
LU-8 Important Farmlands .............................................. 59
LU-9 Cache County Existing Commercial and Industrial Zones ................ 73
LU-10 Cache County Generalized Municipal Zoning Map ...................... 79
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element
LU-11 Logan Urbanized Area ............................................ 85
LU-12 Functional Classification System .................................... 89
LU-13 Cache County Fire Zones .......................................... 99
 
FIGURES PAGE
LU-1 Cache County Population Pyramids .................................. 12
LU-2 General Flow Chart (UPED) Model .................................. 14
LU-3 Cache County Population (UPED) Projection (1950-2020) Growth Curves ... 15
LU-4 Utah State Population (UPED) Projection (1950-2020) Growh Ccurves ...... 16
LU-5 Cache County Farms by Acres ...................................... 61
LU-6 Cache County Farms by Value of Sales ............................... 62
LU-7 Cache County Housing Value - 1990 ................................. 66
LU-8 Vehicular Miles Traveled Comparison 1980 to 1989 ..................... 83
LU-9 Cache County Sheriff’s Deputies Crimes Per 1000 Population ............. 96
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 1
INTRODUCTION
The Land Use Element focuses o n the interrelationship of different land use types and their effect on
urban development patterns within Cache County.  The Land Use Element att empts to identify the
problems  and develop solutions.  The planning process and effort for developing the  Co untywide
Comprehensive  Plan and Land Use Element  were designed to solicit as much public input as possible.
The heavy emphasis on citizen participation ensures that  the goals and  policies developed for the Land
Use element truly express the will and desires of the public as a whole.
The Land Use Element was designed with its socioeconomic information, maps and goals  and strategies
to be a working  and decis ion-making document for elected and appointed officials.  The information
included  in the Land Use Element was collected and presented in a format to help understand the
existing  conditions within the County.   The Land  Use Element is also a valuable resource to individual
citizens, developers, and anyone concerned about land use development within Cache County.
The overall purpose of this Element is to be used as a guideline  and basis for all land use decisions made
in Cache County.  The  Land Use Element should not be used to make land use decision.  This Element
and other elements (transportation, and infrastructure), to be  developed,  should be used as companion
documents to the Cache County Land  Use Ordinance.  The information and recommendations should
be used as the basis for decision concerning requests before the Cache County Planning Commission
and County Council.
The Land Use Element  is not developed only for the unincorporated areas of Cache County  but for all
the communities within the  County.  Each community should  use the information and recommendations
as a building block in making their own land use decisions and development of their general plans.
Another  important part of the Land Us e Element is the aspect of private property rights and their
protection .  Wit h any change to a comprehensive plan or ordinance there will be some effect on the
property rights of a parcel of land.  The  property rights of a given parcel are  defined by the local zoning
or land use ordinance.  The United States Supreme Court has  expressly prohibited that total taking of
any viable use of an individual’s land.  This does not mean, that one has the  right to do whatever  he or
she chooses with his property.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 2
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 3
PLANNING DISTRICT
Cache  County has many singular and diverse environs.  Each  of these areas presents unique and different
planning  issues.  Planning for  these areas need to treat them as unique and separate areas.  Dividing the
County  into planning districts helps facilitate a stronger Countywide  planning process while  allowing
it to deal with the individual issues within each district.
The Planning Districts were used for a series of open houses to solicit public input  from the citizens, and
local officials for the development of  the Countywide Comprehensive Plan.  The open houses were held
in schools, churches, and public  facilities in each district to provide easy access  of the public to these
meetings.   The first round of open houses provided an opportunity for the  general public to express their
concerns  as to  what the issues were for their district and the County as a whole.  The second round of
open houses focused on evaluating the  possible planning techniques which could  be used to deal with
the issues expressed from the first series of open houses.  The final open house allowed for a  review by
the public of the preliminary plan that would  be presented to the County Planning Commission and
Council.    Planning by d istrict provides the flexibility to do planning on a smaller scale while, at the
same time, creating a county-wide comprehensive plan.
On the following pages  is a brief description  of each of the eight different planning districts.   A table
for each district shows the incorporated  communities and unincorporated areas  and also shows the  past,
present,  and projected population for each district.  Map LU-1 on the f ollowing page shows Cache
County and the eight Planning Districts.
PLANNING DISTRICT 1 - NORTH EAST CACHE VALLEY
Planning  District 1 encompasses the n ortheastern pa rt of Cache Valley.  This area consists of the
Communities  of Lewiston, Richmond and the unincor porated cou nty area of Cove.  Currently this
district  area is sparsely populated.  The table  below shows the past, present and projected population for
this planning district.
Jurisdiction      1950      1960      1970      1980      1990      2000      2010     2020
Lewiston
Richmond
Unincorporated
1,533
1,091
264
1,336
977
265
1,244
1,000
252
1,438
1,705
335
1,532
1,955
470
1,620
2,343
745
1,800
2,919
920
2,029
3,552
1,000
Total 2,888 2,578 2,496 3,478 3,957 4,708 5,681 6,581
Source:  Utah Economic & Demographic Projection, 1997, State of Utah Office of Planning and Budget
PLANNING DISTRICT 2 - NORTH WEST CACHE VALLEY
Planning  District 2 encompasses the northw estern part of Cache Valley.  This area includes the
communities  of Amalga, Clarkston, Cornish, Newton, Trenton, the  uninc orporated county areas of
Cache  Junction, and the northern part of Petersboro.  Like  Planning Di strict 1 this area is relatively
sparsely populated.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 4
THIS  PAGE  INTENTIONALLY  LEFT  BLANK
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 5
MAP LU-1
PLANNING DISTRICT MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 6
MAP LU-1
BACK PAGE OF PLANNING DISTRICT MAP 
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 7
Jurisdiction      1950      1960      1970      1980      1990      2000      2010     2020
Amalga
Clarkston
Cornish
Newton
Trenton
Unincorporated
225
526
181
497
451
142
198
490
157
480
448
143
207
420
173
444
390
136
323
562
181
623
447
181
366
645
205
659
464
254
443
728
230
707
557
405
517
845
255
850
564
500
611
955
276
960
612
544
Total 1,880 1,773 1,634 2,136 2,339 2,665 3,031 3,414
Source:  Utah Economic & Demographic Projection, 1997, State of Utah Office of Planning and Budget
PLANNING DISTRICT 3 - NORTH CENTRAL CACHE VALLEY
Planning  Dist rict 3 encompasses the north central part of Cache Valley.  This area consists of the
unincorporated  county area of Benson.  The Cache County Co uncil created a separate planning
commission  fo r the unincorporated Benson area in September 1979. Currently this district area is
relatively sparsely populated.  
Jurisdiction      1950      1960      1970      1980      1990      2000      2010     2020
Unincorporated 264 265 252 335 470 459 567 616
Total 264 265 252 335 470 459 567 616
Source:  Utah Economic & Demographic Projection, 1997, State of Utah Office of Planning and Budget
PLANNING DISTRICT 4 - URBANIZED AREA
Planning  District 4 encompasses the urbanized area of Cache Valley.  This area consi sts of th e
Communities  of Hyde Park, Logan, Millville, Nibley, North Logan, Pr ovidence, River Heights,
Smithfield,   and the souther n part o f unincorporated county area of College Ward.  The 1990 Census
designated the Logan Urbanized Area based on the population for the area.  
Jurisdiction      1950      1960      1970      1980      1990      2000     2010     2020
Hyde Park
Logan
Millville
Nibley
North Logan
Providence
River H eights
Smithfield
Unincorporated
644
16,832
401
304
535
1,055
468
2,398
902
696
18,731
364
333
741
1,189
880
2,512
907
1,025
22,333
441
367
1,405
1,608
1,008
3,342
861
1,495
26,844
848
1,036
2,258
2,675
1,211
4,993
1,147
2,190
32,762
1,202
1,167
3,768
3,344
1,274
5,566
1,608
3,092
41,906
1,725
2,012
5,786
4,292
1,386
7,079
1,745
4,009
49,269
2,397
2,769
8,842
5,725
1,644
8,733
2,155
5,000
55,286
3,326
4,528
12,066
7,117
1,791
10,154
2,343
Total 23,524 26,353 32,390 42,507 52,881 68,622 85,235 101,611
Source:  Utah Economic & Demographic Projection, 1997, State of Utah Office of Planning and Budget
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 8
PLANNING DISTRICT 5 - SOUTH CENTRAL CACHE VALLEY
Planning  District 5 encompasses the south central part of the Cache Valley.  This area consists of the
unincorporated  county  area of Young Ward and the northern part of College Ward.  The College and
Young  Ward area is directly adjacent to the Urbanized Area  and is projected as one of the high growth
areas of the County.  
Jurisdiction      1950      1960      1970      1980      1990      2000      2010     2020
Unincorporated 451 453 430 574 804 1,352 1,669 1,815
Total 451 453 430 574 804 1,352 1,669 1,815
Source:  Utah Economic & Demographic Projection, 1997, State of Utah Office of Planning and Budget
PLANNING DISTRICT 6 - SOUTH WEST CACHE VALLEY
Planning  District 6 encompasses the southwestern part of Cache Valley.  This area consists o f th e
communities  of Mendon, Wellsville, and the unincorporated county  areas of  Mount Sterling, and
southern  part of  Petersboro. This district also takes in an area of Cache National Forest land and  does
have some of the same issues as District 8.   
Jurisdiction      1950      1960      1970      1980      1990      2000      2010     2020
Mendon
Wellsville
Unincorporated
369
1,421
345
345
1,106
347
345
1,267
330
663
1,952
439
684
2,206
616
823
2,852
878
1,039
3,075
1,085
1,309
3,360
1,179
Total 1,955 1,798 1,942 3,054 3,506 4,553 5,199 6,118
Source:  Utah Economic & Demographic Projection, 1997, State of Utah Office of Planning and Budget
PLANNING DISTRICT 7 - SOUTH EAST CACHE VALLEY
Planning  District 7 encompasses the south central part of Cache Valley.  This area consists of the
communities  of Hy rum,  Paradise, and the unincorporated county area of Avon.  This area along with
District 4 is an area currently experiencing heavy growth.  
Jurisdiction      1950      1960      1970      1980      1990     2000     2010     2020
Hyrum
Paradise
Unincorporated
1,704
401
437
1,728
368
440
2,340
399
418
3,952
542
556
4,829
561
780
5,818
714
1,249
7,453
731
1,543
9,303
818
1,677
Total 2,542 2,536 3,157 5,050 6,170 7,781 9,727 11,798
Source:  Utah Economic & Demographic Projection, 1997, State of Utah Office of Planning and Budget
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 9
PLANNING DISTRICT 8 - EAST CACHE COUNTY
Planning  District 8 encom passes the eastern part of Cache County.  This area consists mostly of  the
Cache  National Forest Land of  the unincorporated county.  Much of the environmentally sensitive land
in Cache County is found i n this District .  Most of this area is public owned, however, there is some
privately owned land in this district. 
Jurisdiction      1950      1960      1970      1980      1990    2000      2010     2020
Unincorporated 7 7 6 9 12 17 21 23
Total 7 7 6 9 12 17 21 23
Source:  Utah Economic & Demographic Projection, 1997, State of Utah Office of Planning and Budget
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 10
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 11
POPULATION
The importance of accurate population projections in plan ning a county’s future should not be
underestima ted.  Virtually every important element of the county will be directly affected by the
increase  or decrease of its most important resource, people.  A precise population forecast can aid
planners,  engineers and administrators in determining land required for future hous ing, the increased
demand for parks and recreational amenities, the location of new public facilities such as schools and
libraries,  increased public services such as police and fire protection, demand for commercial
development and the likelihood of new employment.
POPULATION GROWTH
Cache  County has for the last 45 y ears, from 1950 to 1995, maintained a steady growth rate.  The
annualized  rate is about 2 to 2.5 percent a year.  Most of Cache County’s increase in population has been
natural  due to births.  The County, at times, ha s experi enced surges of out and in-migration but has
maintained a fairly constant growth rate.   Table LU-1 shows Cache County population.
TABLE LU-1 CACHE COUNTY POPULATION
1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 1995
Cache C ounty 33,536 35,788 42,331 57,176 70,183 82,451
Source: U.S. Census, State of Utah Office of Planning and Budget
Community Profile
In 1990, there were  35,208 male and 34,975 female residents of Cache County.  For this  same period
there were 70,183 persons living in 21,055 households, m aking an  average household size of 3.33
persons.   The household size for the State  of Utah averages 3.27 persons.   Approximately 95.0 percent
of Cache County residents are white, with 97.6 percent of non-Hispanic origin.   Roughly 3,500 persons
of minority races, Black, American Indian, Asian  or Pacific  Islander, or other, live within the County.
Approximately  41.2 percent of Cache County’s population is between 1 and 19 years old, with  another
43.0 percent between ages of 20 and 49, and only 15.8 percent at age 50 or older.   Table LU-2 represents
a simple demographic comparison of Cache County with the five neighboring counties.
TABLE LU-2 COUNTIES PROFILE COMPARISON - 1990
County Median Age Household Size Percent Minority
Cache       
Box Elder
Rich
Weber
Franklin,  Idaho
23.6
26.9
27.2
28.9
31.1
3.33
3.31
3.26
2.93
2.85
5.2
4.8
1.3
7.4
2.0
Source: United States Census, Bureau of Census, Department of Commerce, 1990                       
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 12
FIGURE LU-1 CACHE COUNTY POPULATION PYRAMID
A standard method of population comparison  is the use of an age cohort pyramid.  When the age cohorts
for 1980 and 1990 are  combined in one composition, it is easy to recognize  which age groups represent
the largest proportion of the total population and which  age groups have increased or decreased over the
last ten years.   Figure LU-1 below sho ws both the 1980 and 1990 population pyramids for Cache
County.
Source: United State Census, Bureau of Census, De partment of Commerce, 1990 
PLANNING PROJECTION
The State of Utah Governor’s Office of Planning and Budget uses  a model to develop projections for
the State of Utah.  This model is called the Utah Process Economic and Demographic model  or UPED.
This model has b een used fo r many years to generate population and employment baseline impact
projections.
UPED Model
UPED model combines three components (birth, death, and migration) cohort survival projection
technique  with an economic bas e m odel to project population and employment given various
assumptions  about the future.  The cohort survival portion of the process involves a relatively simple
technique  based on the fact that the next period’s population equals  the present period’s population, plus
births,  minus deaths, and plus net migration.  To project population, then, c ohort survival techniques
merely  project these three components of population change. The li nk betwe en the cohort survival
technique  and the economics base model comprising  UPED is the relationship between  the portion of
population migration which depends on employment.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 13
The economic base model divides the a rea’s economic structure between basic and non-basic
components  of employment, and assumes the basic component, known as  the “economic base,”  is the
driving  force for economic activity.  Basic economic activity is defined as export oriented,  and thereby
independent  of population size, so the economic base comprises industries an d firms whic h produce
goods and services which are sent for use and consumption in other states or counties.  Non-ba sic
production, also known as residentiary or population dependent, occurs for use and consumption by local
residents.   Thus, residentiary employment includes those  jobs, such as restaurant  workers, teachers, and
sales clerks which specifically attend the local population.  It should be realized that  many expor t
oriented  industries will include some production component necessary for local consumption, and every
industry may have some component of population related to both basic and residentiary demands.
Figure  LU-2, on the follow ing page, depi cts the UPED Model flow chart.  To generate a projection,
UPED divides the present population, sometimes referred to as t he “baseline population,” in cohorts,
typically  constructed by sex and year of age.  A s bo x 2 indicates, using cohort-specific fertility rates,
two new cohorts are created from baby girls and boy s born during the baseline.  Then, using cohort
specific  mortality rates, all cohorts are  aged and survived one year, non-employment relates migration,
which typically results from LDS missions, armed service assignments, college enrollment, or
retirement,  is accounted for, and, as box 3 indicates, and “adjusted natural increase population”  for the
next year is derived.
Given this adjusted natural increase in population, as box 6 indicates, residentiary employment is
computed.   In making this computation, UPED uses  65 detailed industries and calculates the basic and
residentiary  component of each industry as well as in dustry s pecific (residentiary) employment
multipliers  and (basic) industry growth estimates.  These 65  industries generally correspond to  the U.S.
Office  of Management and  Budget’s two digit level, Standard Industrial Classification (SIC)  industries.
As box 8  indicates, adding residentiary and basic job opportunities gives total job opportunities, which
are often referred to as labor demand.  Box 5 indicates the labor force, also known a s labor supply,
depends on the adjusted natural increase popu lation through cohort-specific labor force participation
rates.  The interaction of  labor supply and demand in the labor market, indicated in box  9, determines
employment, which in turn, as box 10 indicates, determines employment related net migration.  
In-migration  occurs when the initial demand for labor exceeds the supply for labor.  In-migration creates
additional  population related jobs (residentiary employment) so the process is repeated until an
equilibrium point is reached.  The equilibrium point is based on  a predetermined unemployment rate.
Out-migration  occurs when the equilibrium unemployment rate is somewhat below the input
unemployment  rate.  Again, such employment related migration initiates an iterative process in which
changes  in residentiary job opportunities and population occur until a  non-migration unemployment  rate
characterizes  labor market equilibrium.  Given no additi onal migration, a first year population is
projected,  which is then used as input to the second  period projection, with the process continuing to the
end of the projection horizon.
Population  projections translate to household projections through the application of cohort-specific head
of household rates to the  projected population.  The  number of households so determined indicates the
number  of dwelling units needed to house the projected population.  Dividing projected population by
projected  households  gives average people per household, or average family size.  Related forecasts of
demographic  statistics can derive the age and sex   structure of the population with family size  and other
variables.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 14
FIGURE LU-2 GENRAL FLOW CHART UPED MODEL
... 
Derived 
Output 
5 
1 Population 
YearO 
Age and Survive, 
Births and Non-Empolyment 
Related Migation 
• 3 Adjusted Nautral 
Increase Population 
Year1 
t 
4 
Popultion 
Year1 
--<-·-- ·--. --·--
----- t-------- I 
t 
I 
I 
10 + Empolyment Related 
6 in- or Out-Migration Population 
Year I Dependent Job 
.. 
Opporiunities 
Year1 
I 
: I 
I 
+ I 
~ r1 8 Total Job 
Labor Opportnnities 
Labor Force Yearl Year I Market 
v---
Direet Relationship 7 
Rosie Job 
Iterative Feedback Relationship ------~ Opporiunities 
Year1 
Yearly Updated Feed Back Relationship --·--·--·--·.-
Model 
Components 
f1 Inputs and 
Outputs 
Ll 
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 15
Perhaps  the most important feature of UPED  to understand is that projected population ultimately
depends  on projected  basic employment.  While there are a host of important  assumptions concerning
existing  and future demographic characteristics, such as fertility and mortality, UPED was original ly
designed  as a means to formalize the impacts on Utah’s economy and population of different scenarios
for the economic base.  As box 7 infers projections of basic employment are largely independent  from
UPED’s determination of total population and employment.
Projections  are often most  relevant and useful when  viewed within the context of historical trends. As
a point of reference,  Tables and Figures LU3  and LU4 show a comparison of  Cache County and Utah’s
population  growth curves for the period 1950  to 2020.  The County and State’s U.S. Census counts for
1950 to 1990 were used.  The Utah Office of Planning and Budget’s UPED Population Projection was
used to determine Cache County and Utah’s population totals for  2000, 2010 and 2020.  Because  of the
wide numerical differenc e betwe en Cache County and the State of Utah, it was impractical to
superimpose  the respective curves on a single graph.   However, the slope of the two different curves is
what really matters and  it is easy to determine that Cache County is  growing at about 2.5 percent which
is slightly slower than the State of Utah’s growth rate of 3.4 percent.
TABLE LU-3 CACHE COUNTY POPULATION (UPED) PROJECTION (1950-2020)
    1950     1960     1970     1980     1990     2000       2010      2020
Planning  District 1
Planning  District 2
Planning  District 3
Planning  District 4
Planning  District 5
Planning  District 6
Planning  District 7
Planning  District 8
2,888
1,880
264
23,524
451
1,955
2,542
7
2,578
1,773
265
26,353
453
1,798
2,536
7
2,496
1,634
252
32,390
430
1,942
3,157
6
3,478
2,136
335
42,507
574
3,054
5,050
9
3,957
2,339
470
52,881
804
3,506
6,170
12
4,708
2,665
459
68,622
1,352
4,553
7,781
17
5,681
3,031
567
85,235
1,669
5,199
9,727
21
6,581
3,414
616
101,611
1,815
6,118
11,798
23
Cache C ounty 33,536 35,788 42,331 57,176 70,183 90,157 111,130 131,976
Source:  Utah Economic & Demographic Projection, 1997, State of Utah Office of Planning and Budget
FIGURE LU-3     CACHE COUNTY POPULATION (UPED) PROJECTION (1950-2020) 
   
G R O
W T H
CU R
VE
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 16
TABLE LU-4 UTAH STATE POPULATION (UPED) PROJECTION (1950-2020)
1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020
706,100 936,000 1,101,000 1,515,000 1,775,450 2,172,513 2,737,189 3,311,302
Source:  Utah Economic & Demographic Projection, 1997, State of Utah Office of Planning and Budget
FIGURE LU-4  UTAH STATE POPULATION (UPED) PROJECTION (1950-2020) 
  GROWTH CURVE
UTAH STATE UNIVERSITY
Utah State University currently is the second largest stat e run university  in the State of Utah.  The
student  population is not included as part of  the population projections.  Utah State University’s current
enrollment is  approximately  20,000 students within its system with about  13,000 of those considered
full-time  students on the Logan campus.  The Uni versity est imates that the student enrollment will
continue to grow.  Table LU-5 shows the projected full-time student projected enrollment.
TABLE LU-5         UTAH STATE UNIVERSITY FULL-TIME ENROLLMENT (1970-2020)
1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020
8,532 10,580 13,319 20,565 23,000 27,000
Source:  Utah State University
The student population is not always included w ithin the current projection and should have some
consideration given to their impact on the region and its resources.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 17
POPULATION ISSUE STATEMENT
Population  growth trends provide  insight and  understanding of the future of a region. It  also,  provides
the county and municipalities the ability to plan for the social and physical needs of th is future
population.   The problems  that most  developing communities do not understand or take into account is
the consequence of growth and the future needs of the residents of their communities.
Cache  County historically has maintained an annualized growth rate of  approximately 2  percent since
the 1950s.  The population projections, for the County, show  this trend is expected  to continue for the
next 20 plus years.  Overall, this is not a dangerous  growth rate  and the county and the municipalities
have th e ability to meet the needs of this increasing population growth.  The problem is that most
communities  do not recognize that they are facing growth and are not p lanning for  its impacts in the
future.  
It is important to understand that this type  of annualized growth rate has a compounding and doubling
effect.  If this rate growth  continues, the population in  Cache County will double  in the next 25 to 30
years.  With this increasing population will come  increased  demands for affordable housing and
employment.   The pressure wi ll be on the exi sting communities to meet and provide for the needs of
these and future residents.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 18
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 19
LAND USE
Cache County has a variety of land  uses.  The  County continues to evolve from an area that was once
composed  essentially  of agricultural uses to a county with  diverse urban and agricultural  communities.
At one time there were extensive tracts  of natural wetlands, farmlands, woodlands  and grasslands, and
small compact urban communities.  Over the years as population increased there has been an expansion
of the urban uses such as subdivisions, commercial, and industrial uses outside the cities.  Cache  County
has successfully  merged the best elements of both urban and rural uses into well-balanced communities.
However,  the continuing of urban sprawl and development in the non-urban areas has created  a number
of problems and conflicts within the County.
Cache  County can  be divided into three distinct and separate areas.  Each of  these have unique issues
and the y shou ld be treated differently.  These areas can be defined as the Urban, Non-Urban, and
Canyons/National  Forest Areas.  The following are a set of descriptions  for the different areas of  Cache
County.
Urban  - areas of the County which are currently or will be experiencing inc reased urbanization
pressure  from the expansion of existing communities.  The land use types in the urban areas  include
activities  such as residential housing, commercial  business, industrial manufacturing, public works
and recreation. The urban area of the county sho uld be receiving most of the population and
employment growth in the future.
Non-Urban   - areas of  the County which are not yet ready for urbanization and have significant
agriculture  value. The land use types in non-urban areas include land devoted  to primary agricultural
production,  farming, grazing, and wetlands.  These unincorporat ed non-urban areas should be
reserved  primarily  for rural uses, such as agriculture and associated residential uses.  There are also
incorporated  communities in this non-urban area.  Most of the current urban developments have
been located in these communities or within close proximity of them.
Canyons/National  Forest - These areas are  for the proper use of the National Forest/Canyon  areas
of Cache County  for grazing,  forestry, recreation and other activities to an extent compatible with
the protection of the natural and scenic resources of the forests and  canyons for the benefit of present
and future generations. The land use types in the  Canyons/National Forest areas include activities
such  as seasonal residential housing, resort and recreation business, range & forested woodland ,
grazing, wildlife, watershed, and wilderness areas.
These  different areas provide a method  of understanding and considering  future development patterns
within  the County.  As part of the development of the Land Use Element of the Co untywi de
Comprehensive  Plan, these areas of Cache County should  play a role when considering the placement
of future land use types.
Map LU-2 on the following page graphically depicts these three different areas of Cache County.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 20
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 21
MAP LU-2
CACHE COUNTY AREAS MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 22
MAP LU-2
BACK PAGE OF CACHE COUNTY AREAS MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 23
URBAN, URBAN DEVELOPMENT, URBAN SPRAWL AND RURAL LAND USE
The terms urban, urban development, urban sprawl, and rural are used many times throughout the
Land Use Element.  It is important that these terms are clearly defined.  Definitions for these terms
are not easy black and white ones.  In most cases these terms are referring to a process or a stage in
the development process of land.
The United States Census Bureau provides a most simple analytical definition for urban and rural. 
The following are the definitions for urban, and rural.
Urban - the population and territory within the boundaries of an Urbanized Area (UA) and the
urban portion of places (cities) outside of UA’s that have decennial census population of
2,500 or more.
Urbanized Area (UA)  - an area consisting of a central place(s) and adjacent urban fringes that
together have a minimum residential population of at least 50,000 people and generally an
overall population density of at least 1,000 people per square mile of land area.
Rural - the population and territory outside any Urbanized area and the urban part of any place
(city) with a decennial census population of 2,500 or more.
These definitions are very simple and in some respect are easy to rely upon. Based on these
definitions only the communities within the Logan Urbanized Area and the municipalities of
Wellsville and Hyrum would be defined as urban.  The remaining communities of Newton,
Clarkston, Cornish, Trenton, Lewiston, Richmond, Amalga, and Mendon would be defined as rural. 
The Census Bureau definitions  are useful in defining and separating rural areas from urban areas. 
However, these definitions may not do a good job of describing the land use problems of urban
development and sprawl.
Urban development within the unincorporated County is divided between  two land use
classifications of residential housing and commercial/industrial development. Currently, most  urban
development has been limited to existing municipalities.  This is primarily due to the fact that much
of the development requires urban type services (sewer and water) which are not generally available
in the non-urban areas.  However, there is an increasing amount of residential development taking
place in the unincorporated areas of the County.   If this trend continues,  there will be demands for
urban services to be developed in the unincorporated county areas.
Urban sprawl is a result of different planning decisions and actions taking place over time.  Many
times urban sprawl is often referred to as leapfrog development.  Urban sprawl is when development
is allowed on cheaper agricultural land that is annexed and rezoned.  Even though vacant land is
available within municipal boundaries for this type of development.  This practice usually will
require the expansion of municipal utility services to meet the demands of the new development. 
The increased problems of urban sprawl and leapfrog development taking place throughout the
unincorporated areas of the County is eating away at the agricultural uses within the County. The
primary cause of these problems is Cache County’s less restrictive land use ordinances and
processes.  Also, the overall cost of land tends to help contribute this growing problem.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 24
COUNTYWIDE LAND USE PATTERNS
A number of  separate, land use surveys have been conducted in Cache County.  The first survey was
completed in 1960.  The second study was  part of a 1979 transportation plan.  The most recent land
use survey was carried out in 1990 as part of a study done for Utah Department of Natural
Resources.  Table LU-6 on the following page summarizes all three survey studies on land use in
Cache County.
TABLE LU-6 CACHE COUNTY GENERALIZED LAND USE (acres) 
Land Use Categories       1960       %       1980       %       1990       %
Urban
Irrigat ed Pasture & Cropland
Non-irrigated Pasture & Cropland
Range & Forested Woodland
Wetlands/Marsh Land Areas
Water
13,387
167,954
544,670
22,757
2,592
1.8
22.4
72.5
3.0
0.3
19,174
119,974
60,365
543,693
5,562
2,592
2.6
15.9
8.1
72.4
0.7
0.3
17,286
110,821
60,407
540,600
19,654
2,592
2.4
14.8
8.0
71.9
2.6
0.3
Total 751,360 100.0 751,360 100.0 751,360 100.0
Source:Cache County 1970 Mas ter Plan, Soil Conservation District’s Zone 1-RIMS 
The existing land uses of Cache County have been classified under the following general categories
Urban  - These are lands used for community growth and development within incorporated areas
of the County.
Irrigated Pasture and Cropland   - These are irrigated lands primarily used for production of
alfalfa, grain or grasses more than 50% of the time.
Non-irrigated Pasture and Cropland - These are lands used to produce crops for domestic
livestock from natural precipitation.
Range and Forested Woodland  - These are lands used for several purposes including grazing,
forestry, recreation, and seasonal dwellings. These lands are comprised primarily of state and
federally managed areas, however, there are also areas of privately owned land.
Wetland and Marsh Areas  - These are lands and areas critical to hydrology of Cache County. 
They are lands defined as wetlands and subject to flooding.  These areas are also critical to 
waterfowl population and habitat.
Water  - These areas include reservoirs, natural lakes, and other extended areas of surface water.
Cache County has 751,360 total acres or 1,174 square miles within its jurisdictional boundary.  The
above table of the generalized land use gives a fair estimate of the different land use types and their
distribution throughout Cache County.
A more significant review of the land use is to consider the different types of land ownership within
Cache County.  Table LU-7 on the following page breaks down the different types of ownership into
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 25
private, public, and other.
TABLE   LU-7 CACHE COUNTY 1995 LAND OWNERSHIP
Land Use Categories              Acres           %           Acres             %
Private
   Agricultu re/Green belt
   Commercial/Industrial
   Residential
   Vacant
Public
  National Forest
  Wilderness Areas
  State
Other
   Water
   Other
389,246
353,037 
9,077
51.8%
47.0%
1.2%
355,408
1,557
8,979
23,302
267,827
68,520
16,690
2,592
6,485
47.3%
0.2%
1.2%
3.1%
 36.0%
9.0%
2.0%
0.3%
0.9%
Total 751,360 100.0% 751,360 100.0%
Source: Cache County Auditor , 1995 Property Summary Report
The groupings, private, public, and other, are further refined into different subgroups which provide
a more detailed understanding of the existing land uses within Cache County.  These groupings were
based on the Property Summary Report from the Cache County Auditor’s office.  The information is
from the current taxing code based on the use of the property.  The following are detailed
descriptions of the private subgroups:
Agriculture/Greenbelt  - These are the lands devoted to the raising of useful plants and animals
with a reasonable expectation of profit.
Commercial/Industrial  - These are lands used for commercial or industrial purposes.
Residential  - These are lands used for residential purposes.
Vacant  - These are lands not included in any of the categories.  This group is primarily land
found within communities that have not yet been developed  (vacant residential lots).
The public category only includes those public lands owned by the Federal (National Forest, Bureau
of  Land Management, and Bureau of Reclamation) and State  (Natural Resources, and School Trust
Lands) Government. The Other category includes all other lands which include lands used for
schools, Utah State University, local public buildings, hospitals, and other nontaxed properties.  Map
LU-3  on the following page provides a graphical distribution of the different land ownership within
Cache County.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 26
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 27
MAP LU-3
CACHE COUNTY OWNERSHIP MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 28
MAP LU-3
BACK PAGE OF LAND USE OWNERSHIP MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 29
LAND USE ISSUE STATEMENT
There are many factors that can affect land uses and where they located.  Primarily, future trends for
land use development are dependent on the land use planning policies which are developed and
adopted by individual jurisdictions.  Other factors which affect land use trends include such things as
the transportation systems, economics, and demographics.
Traditionally the urban development in Cache County has been located within or in close proximity
to the existing municipalities.  This is due primarily to the fact that the municipalities provide most
of the urban services (culinary water and sewer systems) within the County.  Cache County does not
provide these type of municipal services.  However, over the last few years there has been an
increasing trend of locating urban uses outside of existing communities. This change is primarily
based on economic decisions and concerns of cost of land and development.  These developments
usually do not meet the official definitions of urban development but their total cumulative effect is
the same.
This increasing trend of locating small urban developments outside existing municipalities has begun
to generate increasing problems of urban sprawl and leapfrog development into the cheaper
agricultural farmlands.  Urban sprawl development will create an increasing monetary cost to Cache
County and its municipalities.  This increase cost will be found in higher taxes paid to meet the
increasing demand for urban services.  If this trend continues, it will eventually inhibit economic
growth and degrade the overall quality of life within Cache County.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 30
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 31
PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT
The physical environment of Cache County affects every aspect of planned urban growth and
development.   It affects  how, when and where development takes place,  along with limiting the type,
intensity  and manner  of building construction.  The physical environment has a  profound influence on
the quality of life.  Factor s, such as  location, weather, topography, geology, air, soil and water
characteristics  either enhance or detract from the full benefit of an urban settlement.  The physical
conditions  of a particular  location directly  influence the physical layout of the community, its style of
architecture and, to no small degree, the cultural aspects of the inhabitants.
The following  section of the Land Use Element’s community profile attempts to describe the physical
characteristics  of the County al ong with th e natural constraints to development. A complete
understanding  of the physical environment will promote responsible development decisions, insure the
community's health and safety and protect those areas that are uniquely susceptible to harm by man.
Cache  County is made of two very different regions.  These two regions are the  mountainous region of
eastern  Cache County and valley region  of western Cache County.   The mountainous region of Cache
County  is a very important geological area.   There is, however, limited urban development in this region.
Most of this section will place emphasis on the valley region of Cache County where most of the urban
development in the County is taking place.
The valley region of Cache County is bounded on the west by the Bannock Range, the souther n
extension  of the Malad Range, and  the Wellsville Mountains.   The altitude of the Wellsville Mountains
rises abruptly to more than 9,000 feet.  The Bannock Range also reaches altitudes above 9,000 feet.  The
Malad  Range reaches altitudes of 6,000 to  7,000 feet where it bounds  Cache Valley.  The mountainous
region  of Cache County bounds the valley region  on the east by the Bear River  Range, which rises in
altitude from 8,000 to near 10,000 feet.
CLIMATE
The variation in elevation affects the climate in Cache  County.  The amount of  precipitation increases
with elevation.  Elevation,  latitude and continental location combine to create a  climate characterized
by four well-defined seasons, hot,  dry summers and cold, wet winters and a wide range  of temperatures,
precipitation and relative humidity. 
Annual  rainfall for Cache County averages 17.4 inches.   The wettest months for rainfall are during the
spring months and driest months ar e during th e summer.  The rainfall in Cache Valley is not usually
adequate  to produce maximum crop produ ction  without some type of supplemental water.  A
considerable  amount of the annual moisture is snow, most of which  falls during the months of December
throug h March.  The average annual snowfall is between 60 and 80 inches.  There can be as much as
several  hundred inches in the higher e levati on.  The growing season for most of the farming areas in
Cache  Valley ranges from 114 to 150 days with a  slightly longer season along the higher lake  terraces
and mountain foot slopes.  Some valley floor locations have closer to a 90 day growing season.
The County’s average temperature during the summer months ranges from 50 to 80 degrees Fahrenheit.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 32
A maximum temperature of  90 degrees or higher may occur an average of less than 25 days  a year.  The
average temperature during July is 73 degrees  Fahrenheit.  Winter months are cold and can be  severe
at times.  In an average year there are onl y 6 to 12 days whi ch have a minimum temperature that is
below zero, and 35 to 40 days having a maximum that is 32 degrees  Fahrenheit or  below.  The average
temperature during January is 25 degrees Fahrenheit.
The winds generally are light, however, t he winds from  Logan and Blacksmith Fork Canyons may
sometimes  reach a velocity of more than 80 miles  per hour.  This can be a problem for  development in
the mouth of these canyons.
TOPOGRAPHY
Cache  County lies in the transition zone between two physiographic provinces,  the Basin and Range to
the west and Middle Rocky Mou ntai ns to the east.  Cache Valley is that area of the county below the
highest  level of ancient  Lake Bonneville (about 5230 ft.) between the Wellsville Mountains-Clarkston
Mountain line and the Bear River Range or plateau on the  east.  The lowest area of the valley  floor is
about 4400 feet  where the Bear  River exits the valley after collecting about half  its flow from Cache
watersheds.    A veneer of Lake Bonneville deposits in the vall ey area combined with the excellent
watershed  of the Bear River Plateau, with elevations  nearing 10,000 feet, combine in  a soil and  water
resource to make Cache Valley the leading agricultural producing area of Utah.
The Pl eistocene or Ice Age period has profoundly affected today’s topography.  Evidence of glaci al
processes  is found in the higher elevations.  Lake Bonneville overflowed  in a catastrophic flood through
Red Rock Pass at the north end of Cache Valley about 14,500 years a go.  Many thousands of years
before  that the Bear River was blocked by  a lava flow at Soda Point and diverted from Pacific drainage
to Great Basin drainage.  This had a p rofound effect on the floor of Cache Valley and resulted in the
deposition  of the sand and silt parent material for the fine agricultural soils along the margins of the Bear
River.   Shore features left by the lake are much  in evidence in the form of deltas, wave cut terraces, bars,
and spits.  These have provided some of the most attractive building sites in the valley.    
GEOLOGY
Precambrian,  Paleozoic, and Cenozoic rocks are exposed in the  county.  No Mesozoic rocks are mapped,
but they are well represented a  few miles to the east in the Bear Lake Plateau.  Wellsville Mountain and
the Bear River Range reveal a section of  Paleozoic rock’s tens of thousands of  feet thick.  These have
been folded by compressional forces and over thrust in mountain sized blocks for distances on  the order
of tens of miles.  Thick  sequences of Tertiary rocks have accumulated in down faulted depressions
resulting  from extensional faulting with maximum displacements that probably exceed 10,000 vertical
feet and miles of horizontal extension.    
Since the theory of plate tectonics or continental drift came into greater popularity  with earth scientists
starting  in the 1960's,  many new interpretations have  been advanced to explain the rock record.  The
application  of this theory  seems to explain at least partially the patterns of seismic activity observed by
seismologists  today as well as evidence of ancient earthquakes.  The ponderous lateral movement  of the
continents  and oceanic plates through geologic time have had and  is yet having an influence on Cache
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 33
County.   At the present time we are in a crustal extension mode.  This extension of the Earth’s crust
along a generally east-west line across the great basin is progressing a t the r ate of one’s fingernail
growth.   Moderate earthquakes capable of producing surface rupture can be expected.  One  of th e
enigmatic  problems of current research is the lack of  correlation of seismic activity with mapped surface
traces  of faults.  Present seismic activity appears to be related to internal adjustments on faults  within
blocks  bounded by major basin-range faults rather than  on the major faults themselves.  Fault geometry
seems to be quite different from that traditional thought.  Seismic profiles developed during oil
exploration show a listric  pattern where near vertical fault planes at the Earth’s surface become more
level with depth and eventually approach the horizontal  and merge wi th mo re ancient thrust fault
surfaces.       
SEISMIC HAZARDS
There are several major mapped fault zones within Cache County, most prominent among them are: 
1) West Cache,   2) Dayton,  3) East Cache, and  3) The Temple Ridge.  The faults in each of these zones
and unmapped faults could prod uce a number of different seismic hazards that should be taken into
consideration  as part of the planning process for land use.  These hazards in clude; ground shaking,
liquefaction, and ground failure.
Ground  shaking, or the  motion of  the earth caused by the release of kinetic energy when over strained
rocks suddenly rebound, is a major risk to the  built environment.  Local geologic conditions can change
the cha racteris tics and intensity of an earthquake induced ground shaking.  Thick deposits of
unconsolidated  soil materials can amplify the intensity of shaking.  Ground  shaking is more pronounced
in loosely packed,  fine-graine d silt, sand and clay deposits because they amplify ground motion,
sometimes  by a factor of ten.  The geologic composition of Cache County m akes it pa rticularly
susceptible  to this type  of seismic hazard.  However, other factors also play an  important part.  These
factors  include seismic source zones, f requency o f earthquake events, mechanics of individual fault
segments,  local filtering characteristics of the earth's crust and mantle constituting the regional paths
along which seismic waves travel and the filtering characteristics  of the col umn of soil and rock
underlying the area of interest.
Ground  failure, as a result of seismic activity, includes surface ruptures, landslides, slope failure, debris
flows, tectonic subsidence, and  soils liquefaction.  Under the proper soil and ground  water conditions,
seismic  induced liquefaction, an event where sediments and soils colla pse fro m a sudden loss of
cohesion  and shear resistance, can occur.   Liquefaction results in a temporary transformation of soil  into
a fluid mass which may fail to support overlying buildings and structures.  These structures may actually
sink into th e ground as a consequence of seismic liquefaction.  Liquefaction problems are generally
confined  to areas having water-saturated soils  and unconsolidated sediments of uniform grain size sand
and clay.   Map LU -4 on the fol lowing page identifies these areas of potential liquefaction and fault
within Cache Valley.
Seismic  Class III design restraints  are required to be  installed in all structures throughout the State of
Utah.  This design class provides  excellent protection and reinforcement against seismic shock.   Public
buildings  and critical facilities, such as hospitals, fire and  police stations, have additional  seismic design
requirements.   Seismic design codes were approved by Cache County and the  existing  communities
when public officials adopted Utah State's Uniform Building Code.  
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 34
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 35
MAP LU-4
CACHE COUNTY LIQUEFACTION POTENTIAL MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 36
LU-4
BACK PAGE OF CACHE COUNTY FAULTS AND 
LIQUEFACATION POTENTIAL MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 37
SOILS
The soils of Cac he County, formed from the area's surfacial geology, are generally lake bottom
sedimentary  types which remained behind the receding  waters of ancient Lake Bonneville.   The Lake
breached  to the Snake River V alley about 15,000 years ago.  Between 14,000 and 12,000 years ago,
Lake Bonnev ille evaporated to its present size leaving additional deposits of salt, mud, sand, silt and
gravel  exposed.  The intervening years have  seen a wide variety of soil types evolve from these residual
lake sediments.  A detailed discussion of agricultural soils is included as part  of the agriculture  section
of the Land Use Element.
Construction Limitations
The different soil classes found in Cache Co unty h ave innate characteristics that are compatible with
the demands of building construction.  They are easily compacted for building footings  and foundations
and can be used as road base, since they exhibit strong shear-strength and load-bearing capacity.  Some
local soils are only moderately to poor ly drain ed, depending on depth to ground water.  In these
locations  there is a tende ncy toward ac tive shrink-swell cycles because of the high clay and silt
composition  of t hese soils.  The engineering design of footing for heavy structures in these areas
depends  greatly on the moisture content of the ground and the permeability of the soil.  Tabl e LU-8
summarize the construction limitations of Cache County soils.
TABLE LU-8 CONSTRUCTION LIMITATIONS BASED ON SOIL TYPE
Soil Type Low Buildings Septic Tanks Road Fill Suitability
Agassiz
Airport
Ant Flat
Avon
Barfuss
Battle Creek
Bickmore
Blackrock
Bradshaw
Cache
Cardon
Center Creek
Clegg
Cluff
Collett
Collinst on
Crookston
Crowshaw
Curtis Creek
Dagor
Dateman
Datwyler
Despain
Elwood
Elzinga
mode rate
severe
severe
severe
mode rate
severe
severe
mode rate
severe
severe
severe
severe
severe
mode rate
severe
mode rate
slight
mode rate
severe
mode rate
severe
severe
severe
severe
mode rate
severe
severe
severe
severe
severe
severe
severe
mode rate
severe
severe
severe
severe
severe
mode rate
severe
mode rate
mode rate
mode rate
severe
mode rate
severe
severe
severe
severe 
severe
slight
mode rate
severe
mode rate
mode rate
severe
slight
mode rate
slight
severe
severe
severe
slight
slight
severe
mode rate
mode rate
mode rate
mode rate
mode rate
slight
mode rate
mode rate
slight  
slight
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 38
TABLE LU-8 CONTINUED
Soil Type Low Building Septic Tank Road Fill Suitability
Fitzgerald
Flygare
Foxol
Goring
Green Canyon
Greenson
Hendricks
Hiibner
Hillfield
Hoskin
Hyrum
Jordan
Kidman
Kirkham
Lakew in
LaPlatta 
Lasil
Layton
Leatham
Lewiston
Logan
Lucky Star
Maughan
McM urdie
Mendon
Middle
Millville
Mult
Munk
Nebeker
Nibley
Obray
Parleys
Parlo
Payson
Picayune
Poleline
Preston
Provo
Quinney
Red Spur
Richmond
Ricks
Roshe Springs
St. Mary
Salt Lake
Scave
Scout
mode rate
mode rate
severe
severe
slight
mode rate
mode rate
mode rate
mode rate
severe
mode rate
severe
slight
severe
slight
severe
 severe
mode rate
severe
mode rate
severe
mode rate
severe
 severe
mode rate
severe
mode rate
mode rate
severe
severe
severe
severe
mode rate
mode rate
severe
severe
severe
slight
severe
mode rate
mode rate
severe
slight
severe
severe
 severe
mode rate
mode rate
severe
mode rate
severe
severe
slight
severe
mode rate
severe
severe
severe
mode rate
severe
mode rate
severe
slight
severe
severe
mode rate
severe
mode rate
severe
mode rate
severe
severe
severe
severe
mode rate
mode rate
severe
severe
severe
severe
severe
slight
severe
severe
severe
slight
severe
severe
severe
severe
slight
severe
severe
severe
severe
severe
slight
slight
mode rate
severe
mode rate
mode rate
mode rate
severe
mode rate
slight
mode rate
severe
mode rate
mode rate
slight
severe
severe
slight
mode rate
mode rate
severe
mode rate
mode rate
severe
severe
slight
mode rate
mode rate
mode rate
mode rate
severe
severe
mode rate
mode rate
severe
mode rate
mode rate
slight
slight
severe
mode rate
slight
slight
mode rate
slight
severe
mode rate
mode rate
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 39
TABLE LU-8 CONTINUED
Soil Type Low Buildings Septic Tanks Road Fill Suitability
Shay
Sheep Creek
Smarts
Steed
Sterli ng
Timpanogos
Trenton
Wheelon
Winn
Woods Cross
Yeats Hollow
severe
severe
mode rate
slight
mode rate
mode rate
severe
mode rate
mode rate
severe
mode rate
severe
severe
severe
slight
mode rate
mode rate
severe
severe
mode rate
severe
severe
severe
mode rate
mode rate
mode rate
slight
mode rate
severe
mode rate
mode rate
severe
mode rate
slight - few existing limitations can be easily overcome
moderate - limitations can be overcome by care ful planning and sound m anagement
severe - limitations are serious enough to make use questionable and above average planning and management are required
Source:  USDA Soil Survey, Cache Valley Area, Utah, 1974.
HYDROLOGY
Most surface water in Cache Valley originates outside the valley and flows into the Valley in major
streams.   A significant amount of surfa ce water also comes from springs on the valley floor.  Ground
water in Cache  Valley occurs principally in consolidated and poorly consolidated rocks  and
unconsolidated basin-fill deposits.
Surface Water
Surface  water mainly originates from either flow into the valley in the  Bear River,  the surrounding
mountains,  or flow from springs and seeps inside the  valley itself.  Except the Bear River, the perennial
streams  that enter Cache Valley originate  in the Bear River Range.  Surface water is the primary source
of irrigation  water in Cache Valley and is also used  for recreation, agriculture, and public supply.  The
surface  water leaves Cache Valley through the Bear River, West  Side Canal, and Hammond Main Canal,
all of which flow from Cutler Reservoir.  Table LU-9 shows  the major rivers and creeks of  Cache Valley
and their average annual flow rates.   Map LU-5 shows the water  bodies of Cache County. 
TABLE LU-9 RIVERS, STREAMS AND CREEKS OF CACHE VALLEY
River/Creek Average Annual Flow Drainage Area
Bear River
Logan River
Blacksmith Fork River
Little Bear River
East Fork Little Bear River
Cub River
High Creek
Summit Creek
1,023 cubic feet/sec or (741,100 acre feet/year)
257 cubic feet/sec or (186,200 acre feet/year)
140 cubic feet/sec or (101,400 acre feet/year)
59 cubic feet/sec or (42,700 acre feet/year)
33 cubic feet/sec or (23,900 acre feet/year)
88 cubic feet/sec or (63,800 acre feet/year)
30 cubic feet/sec or (21,700 acre feet/year)
20 cubic feet/sec or (14,500 acre feet/year)
NA
214 sq. miles
268 sq. miles
62 sq. miles
57 sq. miles
32 sq. miles
16 sq. miles
15 sq. miles
Total 1,650 cubic feet/sec or (1,195,300 acre feet/year) 664 sq. miles
Source: Utah Department Natural Resources, 1994
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 40
THIS PAGE WAS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 41
MAP LU-5
CACHE COUNTY WATER BODIES MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 42
MAP LU-5
BACK PAGE OF CACHE COUNTY WATER BODIES MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 43
Reservoirs
There are four large and several small reservoirs in Cache Valley that store water for irrigation and
divert water for  power generation.  Most water in the larger reservoirs is diverted from streams that
originate outside the valley.  Table LU-10 below shows the different reservoir’s, their purpose,
depth, surface area and capacity.
TABLE LU-10 RESERVOIRS OF CACHE VALLEY
Reservoirs       Purpose     Average Depth         Surface Area           Capacity
Cutler
Hyrum
Porcupine
Newton 
Power
Irrigat ion
Irrigat ion
Irrigat ion
3 feet
39 feet
feet
23 feet
7,183 acres
438 acres
 173 acres
134 acres
15,386 acre feet
18,700 acre feet
12,800 acre feet
5,600 acre feet
Total 7,928 acres 52,486 acre feet
Source: Utah Department Natural Resources, 1994
Ground Water
The basin-fill aquifers  in Cache Valley are  shallow unconfined and perched aquifers (confined).  The
thickness  of the shallow unconfined aquifer is 10 to 20 feet.  Along the benches and near the mountains,
layers  of clay or silt commonly impede the downward flow of ground water, forming isolated
discontinuousl y perched aquifers.  These aquifers are small and commonly discharge as seeps and
springs  at the break in slopes on  the basin side of the benches.  The principal aquifer is confined, except
for a narrow band adjacent to the  mountain  ranges, where the aquifer is unconfined and water levels in
wells are relatively deep.
The confining layers in Cache Valley are generally rich in clay and increase  in thickness and frequency
basinward.  These clay layers exist throughout the  vertical section and are all across the valley.   Deep
wells in the center of the valley encountered semi-conso lidate d to consolidated sediments that form
confining  layers that  probably are part of  the Salt Lake Formation.  The Salt Lake formation also crops
out around the margins of the valley.  It is generally considered a poor  aquifer but many  domestic wells
are completed in this formation.
The Cache  County aquifer system is recharged by  the annual snow and rainwater.  The recharge areas
in Cache  Vall ey are adjacent to and generally coincide with the topographic break in slope between
mountains  and valley.  The primary recharge area includes  areas of consolidated  rock outcrop bordering
the valley and a narrow band of basin fill along the mountain fronts.  Secondary rech arge areas are
present  on the east and west sides  of the valley, with the exception of the southeastern and northeastern
part of the County.  In the Avon and Paradise area (southern Cache Valley),  secondary recharge areas
are more extensive and surround discharge areas.  In the Northeast part of the valley, t he secondary
recharge area is absent near areas of consolidated rock extending in the valley.
Ground  water levels fluctuate in response to changes in the seasons, seepage from local streams and
discharge  by withdrawal of water from  wells, primarily for municipal or  irrigational use.  Other factors
causing  ground water  levels to fluctuate include recharges by  infiltration of precipitation and irrigation
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 44
water and discharge by evapotranspiration.  The magnitude  of seasonal  fluctuations vary from year to
year with the  greatest recorded differences near regions of recharge or discharge.  Long-term
fluctuations  of ground water levels generally reflect either long-term trends in precipitation or changes
in withdrawals from active wells, or both.
WETLANDS
Wetlands  are lands transitional between terrestrial and aquatic  systems where the water table  is usually
at or near the surface or the land  is covered by shallow water.  Water is the dominant factor determining
the nature of soil  development and the types of plants and  animal community living in the soil and on
its surface.  The single feature that most wetlands share is soil and substrate that  are at least periodically
saturated  with or covered by water.   Map LU-6 on the following page shows the wetland areas of Cache
County.   There is a more detailed description and definitions of the wetland systems included in th e
appendix
 
There  are four federal agencies involved with wetland identif ication and delineation: Army Corps of
Engineers (CE), Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Fish and Wildlife Serv ice (FWS), and Natural
Resources  Conservation Service (NRCS).  The Army Corps  of Eng ineers  is responsible for
administering and enforcing the wetlands regulated under Section 404 of the Clean Water Act.  
Wetlands  serve an important water quality control function.  They  are mother nature’s natural  filtration
system.   Wetlands provide an efficient method of improving water  quality.  Wetlands trap nutrients, such
as nitrogen  and phosphorus, and other pollutants that might enter waterways from point and nonpoint
sources  located on  adjacent lands.   Studies have shown that  polluted water is significantly cleaner after
passing through a wetland area.
Wetlands  are also one of the single most effective flood prevention techniques avai lable.   Natural
wetland  areas allow flood waters to  spread out over a large surface  area, thereby reducing flow and the
flood peak.  This s toring  of floodwater over time allows water to percolate into aquifers, thereby
recharging  groundwater supplies.  Filling and developing in wetland areas can increase the flooding
problems  within an area.  The recent flooding along the Mississippi  River is a good example why urban
development  in wetland areas should not be encouraged.
FLOODING
Flooding  has been a common occurrence in Cache Valley for many years. Because the resulting
damages  have been moderate, flooding has not been a major  problem.  Most of the damage  from floods
has been to agricultural land and property.  Damages from thunderstorms are usually in the form of
erosion  and sediment deposition.  Dry crop land  areas in the Cache Valley are most susceptible to  this
type of damag e.  Fl ooding along the river plains inundates crop land and pasture, damages irrigation
systems, and disrupts rural road systems.
Spring  snow melt flooding in the Bear River Basin periodically exceeds stream channel capacity and
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 45
overflows onto adjacent low lands.  More serious damage occurs when heavy rains fall on frozen
MAP LU-6
CACHE COUNTY WETLAND MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 46
MAP-LU-6
BACK PAGE OF CACHE COUNTY WETLANDS MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 47
 ground and /or a heavy snow pack.  Severe flooding of this type has been experienced several times
in Cache Valley.
 Most of the Bear River flood plain has a high water table; thus, construction of homes and other
building within these zones should be discouraged.  The flood plains that  are subject to infrequent
flooding have minor development presently, and are most likely to have increasing development
pressure.  All urban development in flood plain areas should be discouraged.
The Cache County Zoning Administrator functions as the designated Flood Plain Administrator for
Cache County and coordinates with the State and Federal Flood Plain Administrators.  All
development projects within flood plain areas should be reviewed and commented on by the Flood
Plain Administrator whether it is within a City or unincorporated County.    Map LU-7 on the
following page shows the 100 year flood plains for Cache Valley.
No single entity has sole authority for flood control management activities.  Cache County and the
cities have the necessary statutory authority to act, but at least six other organizations or officials
also have some degree of authority and responsibility. Emergency response and hazard mitigation
coordination authority rests with Utah Comprehensive Emergency Management Office (CEM). 
Hazards mitigation planning is usually provided by the state hazard mitigation team following flood
emergencies.  Pre-emergency planning is also often conducted.
WATER QUALITY
An intense water quality monitoring program was conducted from October 1992 through 1993 to
determine the current water quality status in the lower Bear River basin.  Water quality studies on
the Bear River date back to the 1940s.  Most of the early work focused on salinity and sediments. 
Within the past 20 years, concerns over nutrient and bacterial problems have dominated most of the
water quality investigations. The Utah Division of Water Quality (UDWQ) has been monitoring the
Bear River Basin since 1976. There has been a series of studies evaluating water quality in the Bear
River below the Oneida Reservoir with the intent of developing a management plan for the lower
basin.  Cache Valley is part of this lower basin.  A Bear River Water Quality Management Plan is
being developed by Bear River RC&D and Ecosystems Research Institute for Utah Division of
Water Quality and Division of Water Resources
The Final Draft of the Plan shows the water quality problems in the lower Bear River basin arise
primarily from high phosphorus and total suspended sediment concentrations.  Other impacts arise
from violations of state criteria for dissolved oxygen and ammonia, especially in the Spring Creek
portion of the Little Bear drainage.  High sediment loads in the Cub River and the mainstream Bear
River are also a problem.   There were violations of coliform criteria occurring throughout the basin,
but were most severe in the Spring Creek subdrainage and indicate potential public health concerns.
The study and plan identified the Spring Creek Drainage, entering the Bear River at the south end of
Cutler Reservoir, the Cub River within Utah, and the mainstream of the Bear River from the Utah-
Idaho State line to below Cutler Reservoir has significant problem areas for water quality.  Cutler
Reservoir itself was a major contributor of sediments and phosphorus.  The Little Bear River did not 
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 48
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 49
MAP LU-7
CACHE COUNTY FLOOD PLAINS MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 50
MAP LU-7
BACK PAGE OF FLOOD PLAINS MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 51
appear  to be among the most serious contributors to the Bear River problems, however, problems within
its own drainage compromise the water quality in Hyrum Reservoir. 
The Draft Water Quality Managemen t Plan recommends improving riparian areas, removing feedlots and
other intensive grazing activities from the river corrido rs, implem enting nontill agriculture to reduce
sediment  inputs from crop land, and improving manure management throughout the watershed.  Currently
much  of the drainage is agricultural.  Many of the nonpoint pollution problems are attributed to th ese
activities.    An additional important observation  made by the  Draft Water Quality Management Plan was
“As Cache Valley becomes more urbanized, however, nonpoint  pollution inputs from lawns,  parking lots
and other urban sources will be an increasing  problem.  It is important that all citizens in the lower Bear
River basin understand their individual roles in reducing water pollution.  Fertilizer use on l awns,
inappropriate  dumping and washing household chemicals down drains all contribute to w ater quality
problems...”.
WILDLIFE HABITAT
Cache County with its mountains, valley and abundance of water exhibits wonderful areas of prime
wildlife habitats for numerous species including mule deer, elk, four species of grouse, etc.  Urban
growth and development in the County has resulted in the fragmentation and loss of many of these
natural wildlife habitats.  The process of urbanization will continue to alter the biological and physical
components of existi ng County’s ecosystems as development reaches into more of these natural
habitats.
The cumulative effects of land development have a devastating impact on natural ecosystems, and
that impact extends far beyond the boundaries of developed areas.  Although ecosystems adapt to
naturally occurring ch anges, new conditions caused by residential and commercial construction
produce artificial plant and animal communities that have little relationship with native habitats.  In
addition to destroying wildlife habitat, buildings, roads, fences, and other obstructions restrict natural
wildlife migrations.  Some species are particularly vulnerable to such obstructions.  The following
recommendations for protecting wildlife habitat should be taken into consideration while planning
for new development:
C Maintain buffers between areas dominated by human activities and core areas of wildlife
habitat.
C Maintain large, intact patches of native vegetation by preventing fragmentation of those
patches by development.
C Facilitate wildlife movement between areas of native habitat by identifying and  protecting
corridors for movements
C Balance the opportunities for public recreation with the habitat needs of wildlife.
Most people realize that the presence and protection of wildlife improve the quality of their lives.
There is an obvious value to wildlife habitat and open space in areas where people live, even though
it is difficult to assign actual values to that habitat.  Unfortunately, for many Americans, the concept
of wildlife habitat is defined by an urban perspective.  Even though our land-use patterns  tend to
diminish wildlife habitat, paying attention to both man and nature should be mutually beneficial, not
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 52
mutually exclusive.  Devel opment and environmental protection can be compatible if planning is
applied in harmony with the environment rather than dominating it.
AIR QUALITY
The Clean Air  Act Amendments (CAAA) of 1990 over earlier Clean Air Acts were prompted  in part by
the fact that increasing numbers of people in the United States were living in areas designated as non-
attainment  for one or more pollutants for which National Ambient Air Quality Standards  (NAAQS) have
been  previ ously set (criteria pollutants) and the continuing concern about the health effects of air
pollutant  on people.  The EPA estimates that  86.4 million Americans reside in  non-attainment areas for
any NAAQS.
There  are six criteria pollutants addressed in the CAAA of 1990.  A list of the  health effects of these
criteria  pollutants are included in the Appendix.  Table LU-11 below list the  six criteria pollutants of  the
Clean  Air Acts Amendments of 1990 and the national ambient air quality  standards.  The health effects
of the different air pollutants are included in the appendix.
TABLE LU-11  NATIONAL AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS
Criteria
Pollutants
Federal Standards
 ppm             ug/m 3          Period
            Allowed
            Exceedences
Problem
Times
Ozone
Carbon Monoxide
Particulants (PM10)
Oxide of Nitrogen
Sulfur Dioxide
Lead
0.12
9
35
--
--
0.05
.03
0.14
--
--
235
10,000
40,000
60
150
100
80
365
 (1300)
1.5
1-hour
8-hour
1-hour
Ann. Avg.
24-hour
Ann. Avg.
Ann. Avg.
24-hour
3-hour
3-month
3 times in 3 years
1 time in 1 year
1 time in 1 year
Mean
1 time in 1 year
Mean
Mean
1 time in 1 year
 1 time in 1 year
Mean
Summer
Winter
Winter
Winter
Winter
Winter
Source: Bear River H ealth Department
Cache  County currently has not violated  any of the national ambient air  quality standards for any of the
criteria pollutants and is defined as an attainment area.   This is not to  say, however,  that there  are not
air quality issues for Cache  County.  Air pollutants can come from a  number of different sources.  These
sources  include vehicles, industry, wood burning stoves, lawn mower s, and the backyard barbeque. Cache
Valley  is particularly vulnerable to air quality  problems due to frequent temperature  inversions during
fair weather high pressure periods in the winter months which trap’s pollutants near the valley floor.
Over half the po llutants in the  air presently come primarily from vehicles.  The growth number of
vehicles  nationally has remained  fairly constant but vehicle miles traveled  has increased at a much faster
rate.  This trend is the same for Cache County.  Table LU-12 below  shows the growth trend of the number
of vehicles and vehicle miles traveled (VMT) for Cache County from 1990 to 1994.  
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 53
TABLE LU-12 CACHE COUNTY VEHICLES AND VMT TRENDS 1990 TO 1994
Jurisdiction
1990 
Vehicle’s
1994
Vehicles
Percentage
Change
1990 
VMT
1994
VMT
 Percentage
Change
Amalga
Clarkston
Cornish
Hyde Park
Hyrum
Lewiston
Logan
Mendon
Millville
Newton
Nibley
North Logan
Paradise
Providence
Richmond
River H eights
Smithfield
Trenton
Wellsville
Unincorporated
127
467
144
1,466
3,757
1,111
20,210
653
834
563
912
2,369
664
2,710
1,422
680
4,052
369
1,725
2,870
407
511
175
1,777
4,453
1,256
24,059
820
1,051
630
1,155
2,296
863
2,836
1,655
632
4,901
417
2,292
2,061
220.47%
9.42%
21.53%
21.21%
18.53%
13.05%
19.05%
25.57%
26.02%
11.90%
26.64%
-3.08%
29.97%
4.65%
16.39%
-7.06%
20.95%
13.01%
32.87%
-29.23%
2,315
1,290
4,154
40,798
25,951
24,349
396,683
4,568
5,184
1,925
15,923
88,053
5,296
16,666
28,847
7,043
72,239
5,099
33,883
503,607
4,046
1,449
5,195
51,598
30,814
34,066
508,616
5,936
6,250
2,374
25,975
108,654
5,798
21,724
35,492
8,699
88,847
7,828
42,686
682,401
74.77%
13.33%
25.06%
26.47%
18.74%
39.91%
28.22%
29.95%
20.56%
23.32%
63.13%
23.40%
9.48%
30.35%
23.04%
23.51%
22.99%
53.52%
25.98%
35.50%
Cache C ounty 47,787 54,502 14.05% 1,283,873 1,678,448 30.73%
Source: Utah Department of Transportation
As the above table  shows the percentage change for the number of vehicles registered in  1990 to 1994
is 14.05 percent while the  percentage change for the vehicle miles  travels is 30.73 percent.  This trend
is consistent with national trends of  VMT over the number of vehicles.  Urban sp rawl is o ne of the
leading  factors causing  this problem.  If this trend continues in  Cache County, the overall air quality will
suffer.  The ultimate conclusion is  for Cache County to become designated as a  non-attainment area if
there are no efforts to curb the growing air quality problems.
PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT ISSUE STATEMENT
The physical environment of Cache County provides valuable information and insight  that were used for
the development of the Land Use Element of the Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan.   Understanding
the im pact of the physical environment helps to identify either limitations or potential for urban
development.   The physical environment is made  up of many different domains.  These domains include
such things  as the soil, geology, hydrology, topography, and others.  Because of Cache County’s  different
environs  the physical environment presents some of the most interesting and challenging conditions .
Cache County’s diverse environment can make planning for the future of County very difficult.
The physical environment of the County can be used to  create development  factors in determining the
potential  of different areas of the County for urban development.  Physical conditions  of a parcel of land
can determine ei ther the cons traints or potential for development of the land.  Typically during the
evaluation  of projects for development the characteristic of the physical environment of the project has
only slightly been  consi dered.  This primarily due to the fact that the physical environment is a very
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 54
complex and difficult issue  to totally review as part of the project.  The reviewing boards are made  up
of individual lay people and they are not experts  in all things.  These boards depend heavily on their staff
and the developer to provide them all the facts and information about a project.   In most circumstances
all the issues are not taken into consideration simply because they are not known.
A detailed stud y of t he physical environment of Cache County is important to provide the needed
information  to the different reviewing projects.  The data about the physical environment can be used  to
help develop a set of criteria for reviewing projects.  This informati on can be used to improve the
numerical point system use in the County Land Use Ordinance.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 55
AGRICULTURE
Prime agricultural lands are one of the earth's rapidly diminishing, irreplaceable resour ces.  Virtually
every community in Utah and Cache County is facing the same  problem of vanishing agricultural lands.
As these lands disappear under asphalt and concrete, they must be replaced with less suitabl e, les s
productive  and more remote farmlands elsewhere.  In recent times, a gr owing concer n for the
preservation  of prime cropland has surfaced.  Given impetus by the  signing of the Farmland Preservation
Act of 1981, the United States Department of Agriculture and the Environmental Protection Agency
have developed coordinating plans to save "environm entally significant" agricultural lands.
Unfortunately , to date, their success in the face of economic pressure has been minimal.  The on ce
predominately  agrarian-based  economy of Cache County  has dramatically changed.  A steady increase
in county-wide population has resulted in the steady pr essure of urban sprawl.  Today, an  increasing
patchwork of single family residential development is interspersed among farmland and pastures.
SOIL
The designation of prime agricultural land is based on soil properties, slope of the land, growing season,
moisture  supply and  the kind of agricultural uses and crops  which can be produced on that land.  The
soils are classified by the United States D epartme nt of Agriculture's Natural Resource Conservation
Service  into eight general soil classifications.   Table LU-13 specifies these soil  classification and their
limitations as use by the United States Department of Agriculture.
TABLE LU-13 SOIL CLASSIFICATION AND LIMITATIONS
CLASS LIMITATIONS
I
II
III
IV
V
VI
VII
VIII
- Soils have few limitations that restrict  their farming potential (None in Cache County).
- Soils have limitat ions that  require a reduced choice of crops or t hat requir es moderate cons ervation
practices.
- Soils have severe l imitations t hat reduce the choice of plants , require special  moderate conser vation
practices, or bot h.
- Soils have  severe limitations that reduce the choice of plants, require  very careful  management, or both.
- Soils ar e subject  to lit tle or no  erosion but  have oth er limitations, impractical to remove, that lim it their
use largely  to pasture, ra nge, wo odland, or wildlife h abitat.
- Soils have  severe lim itatio ns that mak e them g enerally u nsuited to cultivation and limit the ir use to
pasture, ran ge, woo dland, or wildlife ha bitat.
- Soils have sev ere  li mitations that  make them unsuited to cultivat ion and restrict  their use to pasture,
range, w oodland, or wildlife habitat.
- Soils and land forms have li mitations that  preclude  their use for comm ercial plants  and restrict their use
to recreation, wildlife habitat, or water supply, or to esthetic purposes.
Source: U.S. Department of Agriculture, Natural Re sources Conservation Se rvice, Soil Survey of Cache Valley Area, Utah.
The soils can be further classified into three major groups depending on the importance of the  farmland.
These  classifications identify the most important farmland within Cache County.  These different groups
are: (1) Prime Farmlands; (2) Farmlands of Statewide Importance (irrigated ), and; (3 ) Important
Farmland  (non-irrigated).  Table LU-14 on the following page summarizes Cache County’s soil types
by their sub-series, class and whether the soils were considered to be prime agricultural farmlands.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 56
TABLE LU-14    PRIME AND STATEWIDE IMPORTANT FARMLAND SOILS
SOIL TYPE           SUB-SERIES                 CLASS PRIME
Avon silty clay loam
Avon-Collinston complex
Battle Creek silty clay loam
Blackrock gravelly loam
Cardon silty clay
Collett si lty clay loam
Collinst on loamy fine sand
Collinston loam
Crookston loam
Crowshaw gravelly loam
Dagor silt loam
Green Canyon gravelly loam
Greenson loam
Greenson loam, deep over clay
Greenson loam, deep over gravel
Hendricks silt loam
Hiibner gravelly clay loam
Hyrum gravelly loam
Kidman fine sandy loam
Kidm an fine san dy loam , deep w ater table
Kirkham-Shay complex
Layton loamy fine sand
Lewiston fine sandy loam
Logan silty clay loam
McMurdie silt loam
Mendon silt loam
Mendon-Collinston Complex
Millville s ilt loam
Nebeker silt loam
Nibley silty cl ay loam
Parleys sil t loam
Parlo silt  loam
Preston fi ne sand
Quinney silt loam
Ricks gravelly loam
Roshe Springs silt  loam
Shay silty clay l oam
Steed gravelly loam
Sterling gravell y loam
Timpanogos silt loam
Timpanogo s silt loam, deep water table
Winn silt loam
Winn-Provo complex
Woods Cross silty clay l oam
ArA,ArB,ArC
AsC
BcA
BmB,  BmC
Cd
Ck
C1A
CmC
CoA, CoB, CoC
CrB, CrC
DaC
GrA, GrB
GsA, GsB , GsC
GuA
GvA
HdA, HdB, HdC
HeC
HuC
KdA
KfA, KfB, KfC
Ks
Lh
Ln
Lr
McA, McB, McC
MeA, MeB, MeC
MfB
MlA, M lB
NbB, NbC
NcA, NcB
PaA, PaB, PaC
PlA, PlB, P lC
PtC
Qu
RhA, RhB, RhC
Rs
Sm
SvA, AvB, SvC
SwC
TmA, T mB, T mC
TnA
Wn
Wp
Wr
IIc, IIe,  IIIe
IIIe
IIIs
IIe, IIIe
IIIw
IIIw
IIIs
IIIe
IIIe
IIc, IIe, IIIe
IIIe
IVS
IIw, IIIe
IIIw
IIw
IIc, IIe, IIIe
IIIe
IIIe
IIc
IIc, IIe, IIIe
 IIw
IIIs
IIw
IIIw
IIc, IIe, IIIe
IIc, IIe, IIIe
IIIe
IIe, IIw
IIe, IIIe
IIIw
IIc, IIe, IIIe
IIc, IIe, IIIe, IIIs
IVS
IIIw
IVS
IIIw
IIIw
IVS
IVS
IIc, IIe, IIIe
IIc
IIIw
IIIw
IIIw
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
Subscripts e, s , c, and w show mai n limitations
c -- wet soil e -- erosion s -- climate eithe r too cold, too dry, o r both w -- soil factor , shallow, stony, o r drought
Source: Important Farmlands of Cache County, Research Report 41, Utah Agricultural Experiment Station, 1979.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 57
Prime  Farmlands -  These are lands  that may not be the most productive in Cache County.  They will,
however, produce more per input without sustaining loss of  productive potential.   To insure long-
term agricultural production, these land must be managed  according to their  inherent capabilities.
C A water supply adequate to meet irrigation requirement in seven of ten years;
C Summer temperature of the soils warmer than 59 oC (15 oC) at a depth of 20 inches (50cm);
C A pH value between 5.5 and 8.6 above a dept h of 20 inches (50 cm), and an alkali (sodic)
content (ESP) less than 15 percent;
C A water table that does not restrict the production of food, feed, and forage crops;
C No significant salt content (less than 4 mmhos) in the upper 20 inches of soil;
C No flood hazard nor flooding more than once in two years; and
C Minimal erosion danger (K factor times percent slope is 5 or less).
Farmlands  of Statewide Importance (irrigated) - These lands are not as  good as the prime lands, but
are important in the agricultural base of Cache County.  These lands  may not qualify as prime when
they are on relatively steep slopes with erosion hazards,  have a high water table,  have more salt or
alkali problems, and the water supply meets production needs five  years out  of ten, or some other
limitations.
In general, these lands require more management than do p rime lands if they are to achieve
satisfactorily  and sustain  economic production.   With inputs such as drainage and erosion controls,
however,  these lands may produce as much per acre as those called prime.  At  the same time, their
quality can be maintained, and in some cases even improved by careful management.
Important  Farmlands (non-irrigated) -  These lands are  agriculturally significant contribute to  small
grain and alfalfa production.  They also  r epresent a potential productivity reserve if additional
irrigation  water supplies are developed, or if presently a lloca ted water becomes available due to
land-use  decisions.  For example, if future  land-use patterns  push farming off the prime lands, these
are the land  resources  that would most likely be called upon for crop production. Their usefulness
will depend on the economic conditions, available water, and farm prices.
These  lands are now used for d ryland wheat and alfalfa but could become prime farmland with
irrigation.   The prevalent soil texture, slope, and salinity lev els indi cate excellent agricultural
potential.  From a long-range planning perspective the neglect of such potentials could be costly.
Table  LU-15 below breaks down  the farmlands by type and  acreage within Cache  County.  Map LU-8
on the following page shows the different type of farmland. 
 
 TABLE LU-15 FARMLAND BY TYPE AND ACREAGE
FARMLAND ACRES
Pri me
 Statewide Importance (i rrigated)
Important (non- irrigated)
51,890
 30,240
 29,510
Total 111,640
Source: Important Farmlands of Cache County, Research Report 41, Utah Agricultural Experiment Station, 1979.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 58
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 59
MAP LU-8
CACHE COUNTY IMPORTANT FARMLANDS  
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 60
MAP LU-8
BACK PAGE OF IMPORTANT FARMLANDS MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 61
FIGURE LU-5 CACHE COUNTY FARMS BY ACRES
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
Cache County is one of the most productive agricult ural counties  in the State of Utah.  There are
approximately 1,189 active farms  in Cache Valley based on the 1992 U.S. Census of Agriculture.  The
number of farms in Cache County is down from 1,223 in the 1987 U.S. Census of Agriculture.   This trend
of declining number of farms is consistent with national trends across the United States.  Cache County still
ranks 2nd in the number of farms, just behind Utah County with 1,696 farms, for the State of Utah.
The 1995 Property Summary Report from the Cache County Auditor’s office shows 355,408 acres or 47.3
percent of the land in Cache County is in some type of agricultural use.  The Utah Department of Agriculture
in its 1995  Annual Report indicated that there are 267,924 acres in farms.  The average size of fa rms i n
Cache County has declined over the years.   The 1987 Census of Agriculture showed the average size of a
farm in the County was 265 acres.  The average size of a farm in  the 1992 Census of Agriculture dropped
to 225 acres.  Figure LU-5 below shows a comparison of the number of farms in Cache County by acres for
the 1987 and 1992 Census of Agriculture.
Source: Utah Department of Agriculture Annual Report, 1995
Most farming in the Cache  Valley is feed production for dairying and  the raising of livestock. There are
approximately  175,063 acres devoted to cropland production in  the County and 120,044 acres of which
is harvested cropland.  
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 62
FIGURE LU-6 CACHE COUNTY FARMS BY VALUE OF SALES
Cache  County ranks first in the State of Utah  in livestock and livestock production.  Table LU-16  below
shows a comparison of livestock for the County.
TABLE LU-16 CACHE COUNTY LIVESTOCK 
                         1987                          1992                          1995
Cattle
All Cows
Beef Cows
Milk Cows
66,629
27,035
6,888
20,147
74,100
31,164
8,844
22,320
75,000
31,000
9,000
22,000
Source: U.S. Census of Agr iculture, 1987 and 1992, Utah Department of Agriculture Annual Report, 1995   
Agriculture  is a valuable part of the market and economy of Cache Valley.   In 1987, agriculture
products   sales amounted to about $66,629,000.  In 1992, that number increased to $87,898,000 and for
1993, that number was approximately $94,200 ,000.  Figure LU-6 below shows a comparison of the
number of farms in Cache County by values of sales for the 1987 and 1992 Census of Agriculture.
Source: Utah Department of Agriculture Annual Report, 1995
AGRICULTURE ISSUE STATEMENT
Agriculture  and agricultural industries are an important part of the economy of Cache County.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 63
Historically  farming has  played an important role in the  economic and cultural lifestyle of the County.
However,  in the last few decades two uncomfortable trends have been affecting the agriculture of Cache
County.   These trends are the declining markets for agricultural products and the increasing loss a nd
fragmentation  of prime and statewide important farmlands to urbanization.  The protection and
preservation  of these farmlands and industr ies shou ld be a major priority for the municipalities and
Cache County
The continued loss of important farmlands to urbanization and urban spra wl is a da ngerous trend.
Traditionally  communities have look upon agricultural lands as h olding a reas for future urban
development.   This trend of treating agricultural ar eas as future areas of urbanization has lead to the
increasing  loss of prime and statewide important farmlands from  agricultural  production and viability.
This should be discouraged not only from the standpo int of protecting this valuable physical and
economic resource but also for the economic health of the existing municipalities.
Agriculture and agricultural industries are a very important segment to  the local and state economies.
Continued  urban sprawl and leapfrog development  into the agricultural farmlands will translate into a
significant  loss to farmers and many others who earn a living from agriculture.  Agriculture and farming
are important and viable economic con cerns.  F arms add to the local economy by providing jobs and
income.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 64
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 65
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT
Housing  and its condition is of paramount importance to a  co mmunity’s well being and sense of
identity.   The prevalent housing type gives a community its sense of residential  character.  Cache County
enjoys  a distinctly rural setting, with homes located  on relatively large  lots.  Much of the housing stock
is new and  in  good condition.  Housing affordability for Cache County remains competitive with
surrounding  regions.  A wide range of housing styles and prices are available.  Cache County also  enjoys
several  unique districts where historic pioneer homes have bee n beau tifully preserved, restored or
readapted.   Future housing  trends will witness an increase in demand along with an associated decrease
in affordability.  Land prices, building costs and planning policies will play a major role  in determining
the amount, style, and quality of future Cache County housing.
HOUSING INVENTORY
In 1995, as part of the research for the Countywide Comprehensive Plan, a housing survey was
conducted  by Planning District.  A total of 25,194 units were counted which compares favorably with
the U.S. Census total of 22,053 units.  Single family dwelling comprises 66.5 percent of th e housing
stock, duplex units total 3.4 per cent, m ulti-family units 24.7% and mobile homes account for 4.7
percent.   Table LU-17 shows the breakdown of the number of dwelling  units b y type by Planning
District.
TABLE LU-17 DWELLING UNIT BY TYPE AND PLANNING DISTRICT
Planning District Single F amily  Duplex
       Multi        
Fam ily
 Mob ile
 Home Other
District 1
District 2
District 3
District 4
District 5
District 6
District 7
District 8
1,047
739
148
12,036
194
995
1,466
126
17
3
0
824
0
2
21
0
42
0
0
6,034
0
38
114
0
57
55
19
842
34
22
130
31
4
0
0
140
0
0
14
0
Total 16,751 867 6,228 1,190 158
Source: 1990 US Ce nsus
The Utah State Tax Commission completed a 1995 Year End Profile of Cache County sho wing th e
average  cost of new housing to be between $70,000  - $140,000.  Older existing  homes have an average
value between $60,000 - $100,000.  Figure LU-7 on the following  page shows a breakdown of value of
housing  units based on information from the  1990 Census.   The 1990 Census showed the median value
of housing units for all owner-occupied housing to be $66,800.  However, in the five years since th e
census  the average selling price for  owner-occupied housing has increased to $116,000.  Based on the
information in Figure LU-7, you would expect the value to be shifting to more expensive housing.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 66
FIGURE LU-7 CACHE COUNTY HOUSING VALUE - 1990
Source: 1990 US Census
The age of  housing in  Cach e County has a broad spectrum.  Table LU-18 shows age of housing by
Planning  District.  Approximately,  53.6 percent of the housing stock is less than 20 years old and 28.9
percent  is less than 10 years. O ne major concern is the number of older housing units.  These units
present  unique problems for the property owner.  Approximately, 46.4 percent of   housing units are older
than 20 years, with about 26.7 percent of these more than 40 years old.
TABLE LU-18 AGE OF HOUSING BY PLANNING DISTRICT
Planning District        0 to 5            6 to 10      11 to 20       21 to 30         31 to 40           40+
District 1
District 2
District 3
District 4
District 5
District 6
District 7
District 8
69
27
0
2,608
0
99
234
0
122
65
0
3,319
0
123
234
0
292
183
0
4,327
0
239
529
0
82
49
0
2,307
0
103
189
0
32
54
0
1,822
0
57
77
0
531
382
0
4,682
0
232
316
449
Total 3,141 4,141 6,062 2,808 2,156 6,734
Source: 1990 US Ce nsus
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 67
From the perspective of  the building  code there is a potential of a number of problems that may need
to be addressed with this older housing stock.  The primary issue will  be with the electric wiring within
the homes.   Many older homes were wired  at a time  when electrical appliances did not require a heavy
electric usage.  However, modern appliances such as microwaves,  electric dryers, computers,  stereos,
and other type items are more common and place increasing demands on the electrical systems.  The
demands  by these modern appliances are forcing minor electrical upgrades to homes’ electrical  systems
so that the property owner may use them.  Most of the  minor electrical upgrades  are the conversion from
a fuse system to a circuit breaker system which is much saf er.  A more detailed review of housing
conditions will be discussed in another place in this section.
RENTAL HOUSING
The U.S. Census for 1990 reports that 7860 Cache County dwelling unit s are being re nted by 22,232
persons.   Approximately 29 percent  of all rental units are single family.  The median age of a renter  in
Cache  County is between 25 - 34 years old and  median contract rent equals  $335 per month.  Table LU-
19 below shows a breakdown of the average rental cost by the  number of bedrooms  in a rental unit from
a Fair Market Rent Survey.  The Bear River Association of Governments did this survey in 1995.
TABLE LU-19 AVERAGE RENTAL COST BY THE NUMBER OF BEDROO M
Average Rent Average U tility Cost  Total Rent C ost
Studio
1 Bedroom
2 Bedroom
3 Bedroom
4 Bedroom
$261.25
$346.00
$424.72
$631.45
$806.15
$15.50
$54.42
$89.35
$106.82
$105.97
$276.75
$401.06
$523.93
$682.63
$902.63
Source: BRAG, Fair Market Re nt Survey, 1995
HOUSING CONDITION
In the summer of 1993, as part of the research for the Bear River Associa tion of Governments’
Comprehensive  Housing A ffordabi lity Strategy (CHAS)  a comprehensive housing survey was
conducted.  This survey involved  a drive-by windshield analysis of four major structural components
of all housing units in Cache County.
The criteria used for rating dwelling unit conditions wa s broken down into components, and each
component  surveyed.  These structural components included the following items; roof, walls and
foundations,  windows and doors, and porches  and stairs.  The condition of the dwelling units is depicted
in Table LU-20 on the following page.  Each unit is rated from best to wor st possible condition and
given a rating corresponding with the repairs needed.
Of the total  20,953 units, 21 percent were  found to be in satisfactory condition, 60 percent were found
to need minor repair, and 18 percent are  in need of moderate repair.  Only 1 percent  of the units need
major  repair.  Adding these figures  reveals a total of 79 percent of dwelling units which are suitable for
rehabilitation.   Table LU-20 on the fo llowing page  breaks down the conditions of dwelling units by
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 68
jurisdiction within Cache County.
TABLE LU-20 CONDITION OF DWELLING UNITS IN CACHE COUNTY
Jurisdi ction
Total
Units
           
Satis.
     Units
   Needs
Minor
Repa ir
Needs
Moderate
Repa ir
    Needs
     Major
      Repair
 Beyond
Repa ir
Ama gla
Clarkst on
Cornish
Hyde Park
Hyrum
Lewiston
Logan
Mendon
Millville
Newton
Nibley
North Logan
Paradise
Providence
Richmond
River H eights
Smithfield
Trenton
Wellsv ille
Unincorporated
-
212
74
653
1,338
482
9,518
229
316
194
391
1,243
182
956
586
927
1,559
148
670
1,275
-
21
5
196
181
50
1,310
63
110
31
173
470
28
376
60
471
259
16
87
440
-
126
48
387
936
287
6,135
77
172
119
188
702
112
196
408
423
1,034
87
292
629
-
59
19
68
215
134
2,033
65
32
38
28
66
40
80
108
33
260
41
234
185
-
4
1
2
4
9
36
23
2
1
1
4
1
4
7
0
6
2
47
9
-
2
1
0
222
2
4
1
0
5
1
1
1
0
3
0
0
2
10
12
Cache  Coun ty 20,953 4,347 12,658 3,738 163 47
Source: BRAG; Comprehensive Housing Affordability Strategy, 1993  
HOUSING TRENDS
A number of economic, social, and  de mographic factors play varying degrees of importance in
determining  fut ure housing style, cost, availability.  Many of these factors are the result of national
policies,  which are beyond the control of local government.  National housing  spec ialists have noted
specific  trends that are currently taking place which has direct consequences for local housing markets.
Some of these trends will undoubtedly affect Cache County over the next twenty years.
Demographic
Both national and  local population projections indicate a continued decrease in  average family size.  At
the same time, the number  of households has increased substantially.  Many households  now consist of
single  parent families.  An increase in elderly households will continue as the ‘baby boomer’ coh ort
bulge wor ks higher up the population pyramid.  The demographic trends translated into many of the
smaller  families competing for available housing.  Housing demand is projected to incre ase substantially
and by the end of the 1990's the need for more housing could be even more acute.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 69
Affordability
For the majority of persons, the  cost of housing  continues to increase at a faster rate than real personal
income.   A number of factors  have contributed to the swift rise in housing cost.  The rapid population
growth  of Cache County has created an increased demand for additional housing.  The accelerated rate
of household formation, comprising smaller  families and more single parent households, is evident.  At
the same  time, there i s a decrease in the supply of readily available land for residential construction.
Land prices are driven up as more and more desir able housing units are developed.  Housing
affordability  is also affected by government regulations which require street improvements, curb, gutter,
and sidewalk, storm water control, utility connections and street lighting.  The  periodic fluctuations  in
inflation  rates and financing costs also directly determine housing affor dability for many families
looking to purchase their first home.
Housing Style and Size
To help offset the  increased cost of housing, compromise strategies directed toward housing style and
size have been considered in other parts of the  nation.  The trend is to reduce housing  cost by allowing
single family homes to be built without carports or garages.   Smaller lots and reduced minimum floor
area requirements also help trim the price tag of  a new home.  In an  effort to save money, some areas
of the country allow  wood foundations, ½ inch dry walls, thinner basement floors, plastic  plumbing and
framing  studs to be placed 24 inches on center rather than 16 inches.  C onve ntional brick and wood
construction  is being replaced by press  board and aluminum siding.  Smaller homes on smaller lots also
help reduce cost.  Man ufactured housing, planned unit developments and condominiums are being
offered  as affordable alternatives to the  traditional single family  lifestyle.  Housing style and size will
continue to evolve as demand increases and affordability decreases.
Energy Issues
The demand for housing which is more energy efficient will increase as  a result of rising electricity and
natural  gas costs.  Both passive and active  solar housing styles  will become  common before the turn of
the century.  There is also a need for greater sensitivity and flexibility in the placement of homes on lots,
to take advantage of solar radiation.  Existing dwelling units will  find m eans of incorporating energy
efficient technologies as utility costs make such retrofitting profitable.
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT ISSUE STATEMENT
Residential  development is an important and  necessary part of a community’s  land use planning.  Much
has been made over the quality and the cost of residential development within community.   Residential
development  does place a financial burden on a community.  How ever,  communities are made up of
people  and theses people need places to live.  The three primary issues facing most communities dealing
with residential development are the location of residential development, the type housing (single-
family, multi-family and etc.), and finally the affordability of housing.
The lack of planning for appropriate locations for residential development can have a dramatic and long
term effect on the future  of a community.  As plans for residential housing  developments are approved,
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 70
there needs some type of recognitio n that the community as a whole takes on a financial burden to
provide  needed services (i.e., police, fire, water, sewer, transportation, utilities, and others).  The total
cost of providing those services cannot and should not be totally placed upon the new development.  The
courts have found that new residential developments are only responsible for  their fair share and rest of
the community must bear the remainder. 
The unincorporated areas of Cache County have remained primarily rural and  the County provides  only
minimal  level of services (i.e., police, fire, and  snow removal).  Culinary water and sewer services are
provided  by individual wells and septic systems.  Growth projections for the Coun ty show that the
population  of the unincorporated County will  continue to increase.  By the year 2010 the  population of
the unincorporated of Cache County will have the second largest population in the County behind Logan
City.   As the number of r esidential ho mes increases in the unincorporated County, the demand and
public  pressure for urban type services will increase.  It will  be become more and more difficult to
continue  to limit the level of services to these re sidents.  Only by developing and implementing well
thought  out land use policies for limiting urban development  in the unincorporated areas to  levels that
will not place increasing burden and demand on this and future County Councils.
Munici paliti es are the primary providers of urban type services and need to be preparing to meet this
future  demand for residential  housing for the County.  This is not to say that all residential development
should be limited just to the municipalities and residential homes in the  unincorpor ated areas be
prevented.   There will always be a need for residential housing development in the  unincorporated  areas.
The need for homes to be developed in the unincorp orated areas will continue but the size of the
development  will be limited based on the ability of  the County to provide services and the physical
constants of the land.
The types and the affordability of residential  development are two closely connected issues.  The United
State Supreme co urt ha s made a number of different court rulings (Mount Laural I & II) that clearly
declared  that communities may not use exclusionary zoning  and land use  policies concerning housing.
The Utah Legislature, in 1996,  with the HB 295 begun to require all municipalities and counties  in the
State of Utah develop as part of their general plan, a moderate income housing plan.  These housing
plans are to help act as a guide for communities residential development decisions.
The cost of ho using in Cache County has steadily increased to a point, where the cost of living index
for the Logan Urbanized Area shows that housing costs are one of the highest in the State of Utah.   The
increasing  trend of rising housing cost is not a health for the local economy and housing nee ds of the
County.  Som e of the factors that contribute to this trend are the increasing cost of land, construction
cost (labor and material), and government regulations and policies (lot sizes, process, and density).
Land use policies for residential housing  development in Cache County need  to be based on meeting the
needs of current and futur e residents of the County.  These housing policies should be developed to
balance  and prot ect individuals property owners rights, while at the same time meeting the housing
needs of all income levels.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 71
COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL
The purpose of the commer cial a nd industrial section is to evaluate current and future economic
potential  of the business community of Cache County.  This section  will help identify countywide needs,
goals, objectives, and develop an understanding of the  commercial and industrial land  uses within the
County.  The commercial and industrial  section deals with the entire commercial/industrial  environment
of the County.  Commercial and industri al business trade areas seldom adhere to jurisdictional
boundaries.   Businesses display spatial patterns that conform to the geographic distribution of consumers
and transportation, not the conceptual boundaries of city limits.
ZONING
Cache  County Land Use Ordinance  provides for  zones where commercial and industrial businesses  may
be located.  Each of these zones has a purpose which defines the intent  and function of the  zone.  The
Cache  County Planning Commission should always review proposals based  on the purpose of the zone.
Below  are listed the individual purpose sections for the commercial and industrial zone from  the Cache
County Land Use Ordinance.
Commercial Zone - C 
7-1 Purpose - To allow areas where industries nec essar y and beneficial to the local
economy  may locate and operate.  The regulations of the  zone are designed to protect
and preserve the environment of the zone, adjacent areas and the entire County. 
Manufacturing Zone - M
7-1 P urpose - To allow areas where industries necessary and beneficial to the local
economy  may locate and operate.  The regulations of the zone are designed to  protect
and preserve the environment of the zone, adjacent areas and the entire County. 
These  descr iptions combined with the list of legal uses should determine the type and quality of
development  intended  by the  appropriate zone.  The idea of a controlled and planned commercial and
industrial  environment is a much more recent i dea than the idea of planned and protected residential
setting.   Many of the physical planning ideas now being applied to t he commercial and industrial
environment  are adaptations of concepts first tried and r efined in residential.  If development is not
consistent  with these above purposes and the legal uses within the  individual  zone, then the zones have
problems and review of each zone should be made to correct them.
The Co unty’s Land Use Ordinance has defined commercial and industrial zones, but they are very
sparing ly used.  The Map LU-9 on the following page shows the current existing commerc ial an d
industrial  zones in unincorporated  areas of Cache County.  The  County Land Use Ordinance over time
has listed a number of commercial and industrial uses within the  non-commercial/industrial zones.  This
practice  has become problematic in that it has broadened th e purpose  and  intent of the non-
commercial/industrial  zones.  For example, the list of allowed uses in the Agriculture (A) zone now
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 72
includes  so many commercial and industrial  uses within the zone that the intent and  purpose of the zone
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 73
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 74
MAP LU-9
CACHE COUNTYCOMMERCIAL AND
 INDUSTRIAL ZONES MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 75
MAP LU-9
BACK PAGE OF COMMERCIAL AND 
 INDUSTRIAL  ZONES MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 76
have become unclear.   To maintain the integrity of any zone it is important that the purposes and list
of uses remain consistent.  This consistency of purpose and uses provides the Planning Commission
with the tools and policies to make better decisions and have control over development within the
zones. 
LAND USE
Most of the commercial and industrial land uses within Cache County are found within the existing
incorporated communities.  There is approximately 1,557 acres within Cache County committed to
commercial or industrial land uses.  Commercial and industrial land uses makeup about 0.2 percent
of the privately owned land within the County.  These number are based on Cache County Auditor’s
1995 Property Summary Report .  The Utah Department of Employment Security reports there are
1,819 non-agricultural  commercial and industrial firms which employ approximately 36,546 people
The overall impacts of commercial and industrial development are very similar from a land use
perspective.  The effects and impacts of commercial and industrial development include the
transportation systems, the location and density of residential, and urban design of the community. 
The intensity of these land uses  may have adverse effect on the urban fabric of a community. 
Uncontrolled commercial and industrial development can do more damage to a communities urban
design.   However, commercial and industrial uses are necessary for a healthy tax and employment
base of a community.  To better understand the impacts it is important to review each of these land
uses separately.
Commercial
Residents of Cache County make daily use of the goods and services offered by commercial business
establishments.  Commercial businesses provide convenient and economically competitive places
where people can purchase food and clothing, have their automobiles repaired, be entertained, and
acquire other durable or nondurable goods and services.  In addition, the variety of commercial uses
enhances the desirability of living within a community, creates employment opportunities, and
generates sales tax revenue to be used for public services.  Commercial development is essential to
the community's economic viability.
The location of commercial land uses tends to congregate around large arterial streets.  This trend
has taken place for many years and will continue for many more.  Commercial buildings are
developed and are occupied by businesses for years.  However, as more traffic is generated on these
high visibility streets there will be more pressure to move from these older buildings to newer and
larger commercial developments.  As new commercial development takes place there is increasing
pressure for leap frog  development in areas of less expensive agricultural land.
Visually, commercial corridors often lack a sense of organizational structure, and this "confusion"
reflects poorly on overall community design.  Commercial strips tend to display the following
characteristics:
C Numerous large freestanding and portable signs;
C Large expanses of unscreened surface parking;
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 77
C Little or no landscaping of public or private property;
C Few or no pedestrian improvements;
C Above ground utilities and overhead lights;
C Numerous poorly delineated, closely spaced driveway access points, and;
C Uncoordinated approach to design, location, and planning of public and private
improvements.
The visual effect of the commercial corridors bears little or no relationship to the community's
natural setting or the architectural styles present in the rest of the community.  These streets bisect
the communities, leaving visitors with a less than favorable impression.  The image created by the
commercial strip will affect the community as a whole.  To change an image based on the
appearance  will require a combination of many different planning strategies.
Curbing the ills of the commercial corridor takes a combination of entryway, sign controls,
landscaping standards, pedestrian amenities, and architectural standards.  Regulatory standards
addressing these aspects of urban design are proven methods of upgrading strip commercial
development.  A commitment to setting up changes is necessary before any real improvements will
take place.  A consistent plan with goals and methods will help attain the desired outcome.
Industrial
Industrial uses convert raw materials into useful products or supply support type businesses. 
Industrial business provides a significant contribution to employment growth, tax revenue, and
an export economy.  At the same time, industrial businesses can have severe social and
environmental impacts upon a community's neighborhoods, transportation network, and air and
water ecosystems.  Local land use controls of industrial uses fall into two categories: immediate
code standards as exemplified by zoning ordinances and subdivision regulations; and, long-range
philosophical judgements of the comprehensive plan which show where the communities will
permit future industry to go, approximately how much land will be set aside for future industry,
and which type of industry will be accepted.
Industrial uses can be divided into two separate categories.  These two categories are light and heavy
industrial uses.  Individual industries are classified  heavy or light depending on their environmental
impacts, externalities, amount of outside storage and degree of operation intensity.   The following
definition defines these two categories of industrial uses:
Light Industry  - Light industry includes businesses primarily engaged in warehousing or the
manufacturing and wholesale distribution of finished goods.  All manufacturing occurs
inside a building, such as a machine or cabinet shop, with little or no outside storage of
materials.
Heavy Industry  - Heavy industry includes manufacturing businesses with extensive (defined as
30% or more of any parcel's total land area), outside storage of equipment, such as petroleum
works, truck lines, construction firms, cement plants, and mining.  This land use category
also includes any business that produce a high level of noise, visual impact or environmental
pollution.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 78
PROJECTED LAND USE 
In projecting the future location of commercial and industrial land uses first focuses on the future
intent and needs of the existing communities.  More and more commercial and industrial
development is necessary for creating a strong tax base within the County.  Because of the lack of
municipal type services (water and sewer) within the unincorporated area most of the commercial
and industrial development will be located in the existing communities.  This is based on the
communities ability to provide services, and concentration of the population. 
Each community provides for commercial and industrial zoning and master plans for future
development.  Map LU-10 on the following page shows the generalized municipal zoning map for
the communities.  To better understand the future land uses of the region it is helpful to see how
communities are currently zoning land.  National averages show that communities should maintain
approximately 15 percent of communities land use in a mix of commercial and industrial.
In addition to zoning it becomes important to review the employment projection for the region. 
Table LU-21 below shows the existing and projected employment by industrial classification based
on the  major groups as defined by the  Standard Industrial Classification Manual .  The SIC codes
separate businesses into 10 industrial classifications.  The Agriculture group is typically excluded
from the definition of total employment because its growth dynamics is somewhat unique,
particularly in an urban setting. The manual also breaks down the Trade group into Whole and Retail
Trade, however, the available information in these groups is combined into one group.
TABLE LU-21    Cache County: Existing and Projected Employment by Industry, 1990 - 2020
Industry             1990             1995             2000             2010             2020
 Mining
 Construction
 Manufacturing
 Trans ., Comm. & PU*
 Wholesale & Retai l Trade
 FIRE**
 Service
 Government
0
961
8,452
616
5,017
588
4,388
8,172
4
1,814
10,094
1,048
7,180
801
5,690
9,742
5
2,249
12,514
1,299
8,901
993
7,054
12,078
6
2,759
15,351
1,594
10,920
1,218
8,654
14,816
7
3,216
17,893
1,858
12,727
1,420
10,086
17,269
Total 30,216 36,373 45,093 55,317 64,476
*Transportation, Communication and Public Utilities
**Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate
Source:  Utah Economic & Demographic Projection, 1997, State of Utah Office of Planning and Budget
Of these ten SIC categories or major groups, three are commercial and five are industrial in nature. 
The three commercial groups are  Retail Trade, Finance/Insurance/Real Estate, and Service.  The
five industrial groups are Mining, Construction, Manufacturing, Transportation/Communication, and
Wholesale Trade.  The Government group shows those individuals that work in the public sector.  A
more detailed description of the different Standard Industrial Classification codes are listed in the
Appendix.
Commercial and industrial development is an integral part of the makeup and economy of a
community.  It is important to locate commercial and industrial zones in appropriate locations to
enhance the community’s urban design and to maintain the economic stability of the community
now and into the future.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 79
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 80
MAP LU-10
CACHE COUNTY GENERALIZED 
MUNICIPAL ZONING  MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 81
MAP LU-10
BACK PAGE OF CACHE COUNTY GENERALIZED
 MUNICIPAL ZONING MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 82
COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL ISSUE STATEMENT
Commercial  and industrial development  is the economic lifeblood of communities. These land uses are
the primary revenue source for the County and municipalities  eithe r through property or sales tax.
Commercial  and industrial development can and does have a tremendous effect  on the growth and
economic  potential of a region.  Because these land uses are so important to communities somet imes
there are overly aggressive in their efforts to attract them.  
Commercial  and ind ustrial development, like residential development, is necessary for a healthy
community.    There should be however,  a health mixture of the  different land uses within a community.
Studies  show that communities should have approximately 15 to 20 percent commercial or industrial
developments  of their total land use.  This percent provides a balance between other  uses (residential,
public,  and transportation).  When communities have much commercial and  industrial development, the
other land uses such as residential, tend to begin to deteriorate and devalue over time.
The locating of commercial and industr ial la nd uses within a community can have either a beneficial
or detrimental effect.  Proper planning for locating these types development should be done so that the
overall  impact is to the foremost benefit of the community and the development.  The impacts of
commercial  and industrial development can be divided into two  different  areas.  These two areas are the
effect  of commercial and industrial development on adjacent property and on  a transportation system.
It is important to understand how these impacts affect a community and what can  be done  to mitigate
them.
 
The first type  of impact is the effect of  commercial and industrial development on adjacent land uses.
These impacts i nclude such things as noise, smell, light and other.   Most general plans and land use
ordinances  try to resolve  these impacts by segregation of non-compatible land uses.  There will always
be circumstances where non-commercial/industrial land use a butting or are adjacent to a commercial
and industrial development.  Standards can and should be  developed  to offset or minimize the impacts.
These  standards can include  such things as sound walls, height restrictions, limits on hours of operation,
and landscaping buffers.
The second type of impact of commercial and industrial land uses is on  a regions transportation system.
Not considering impacts  of comme rcial and industrial development on transportation will lead to
problems  of traffic flow and gridl ock durin g peak hours (going to and from work).  Allowing strip
commercial  development along principal highways can create addi tional problems of urban sprawl,
deterioration of older downt own commerci al areas and loss of economic value of land.  Methods of
dealing  with the effects of commercial and industrial development on a transportation system includes
such things as access management techniques, limiting urban sprawl, redevelopment, and  traff ic
calming.
Most of the commercial and industrial  development within Cache County has been limited primarily
to the existing municipalities.  Much of the development has been located along  the principal highway
system US H ighways 89/91.  As population increases along these highways, the pressure for more
commercial  and industrial development will increase.  The primary issue facing commercial and
industrial  development  in Cache County is the strip development taking place along US Highway 89/91
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 83
and futu re development along State Route 165.  A consistent set of development standard s fo r
commercial  and industrial land  uses should be created to limit their overall impact on the transportation
system.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 83
FIGURE LU-8 VEHICULAR MILES TRAVELED COMPARISON 1980-1989
TRANSPORTATION
One of the most vital elements of any community is  the transportation system.  Streets, highways, public
transit,  and railroads are essential to the orderly functioning of  the urban area  by providing mobility for
people  and goods as w ell as access to land.  Planning for these facilities involve a comprehensive
analysis  of the ability of the transportation systems to accommodate future changes in demand with
minimal cost and negative impacts for the community.
The automobile has played a very important part of the  development of today's  American community.
Since the development of the  automobile  at the turn of the century no other modern convenience has had
a greater impact  on the makeup  of the modern communi ty.  We as a society have become dependent  on
the automobile.  The relationship of transportation and land use development is very  comp lex and
reciprocal.   Land  use patterns affect travel decisions  and travel decisions affect land use patterns.  As
vehicular miles traveled by individuals continue  to increase as shown in Figure LU-8 below, the  need
for sound planning of the existing and future transportation needs will be necessary.
Transportation  systems are regional by nature and provide access to and from the  surrounding areas of
the region.  Cache  County’s transportation system  is a part of a much larger and regional system with
the Wasatch Front and the Intermountain  Region.  Many of the highways within Cache County provide
pass through travel routes to other destinations in the Intermountain Region, as well as access  to major
employment  centers within and outside of Cache County.  The  transportation system of Cache  County
and the planning of it can be divided in two  areas, the urbanized area and the non-urbanized area.   The
urbanized  area transportation system is planned by the Cache Metropolitan Planning Organization
(CMPO) and the non-urban area is planned by Cache County.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 84
CACHE METROPOLITAN PLANNING ORGANIZATION  (CMPO)
With the 1990 Census the Logan area population surpassed the popu lation plate au of 50,000 people.
This caused the creation of an Urbanized Area for  the Logan region.  Map LU-11 on  the following page
shows the Logan Urbanized Area . With the  creation of an Urbanized Area comes the added
responsibility  of doing planning  for transportation within the  area by local communities.   This is to be
done through a group called the Metropol itan Plan ning Organization.   In an agreement executed on
October  15, 1992 the Governor designated the Cache  Metropolitan Planning Organization (CMPO) as
the metropolitan planning organization for the Logan Urbanized Area.
The CMPO comprises two bodies, a legislative body and an advisory  committee.  The  legislative body,
or the Executive Council, comprises representatives from Cache County, Utah Department of
Transportation  (DOT), Logan Transit District (LTD), as well as elected officials appointed by the
mayors  representing the communities of Nibley, Millville, Providence,  River Heights, Logan, North
Logan, Hyde Park, and Smithfield.
The Cache Te chnical Advisory Committee (CTAC) advises the Executive Council on technical and
other matters as assigned.  Members  of CTAC are engineers, planners, and public works officials  from
the same jurisdictions and agencies as the Executive Council.
Since the CMPO was created in 1992, the E xecutive  Council and Technical Committee have been
working to develop and complete a Long Range Transportation Plan for the Logan Urbanized Area.
PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAYS
Public  rights-of-way s or roads make up the transportation system within Cache County.  Roads  and
public  rights-of-ways may be regional in nature but the resp onsibili ty and jurisdiction varies.  This
complicates  the planning process for managing the entire system.  Table LU-22 below provides a
description of each class of road with responsibility and funding sources.
TABLE LU-22 ROAD CLASS AND OWNERSHIP
 TYPE OWNERS HIP
Class A
Class B
Class C
These  are r oads under  the j uris dict ion a nd control  of the Ut ah Dep artm ent of
Transportat ion.   These roads are constructed and maintained by DOT from funds made
available for t hat purpose.
These  are roads located in  the unincorporated  areas under the juri sdicti on and control
of Cache County.  These roads are construct ed and maintained by the County Road
Departm ent.
These  are roads located in the incorporated municipalities of Cache County.  They are
under  the juri sdicti on and control of  each  community.  These roads are constructed and
maintained b y each of the different comm unities.
Source: Utah Department of Transportation
The funding source for these road classes primarily comes from the gasoline tax.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 85
MAP LU-11
LOGAN URBANIZED AREA MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 86
MAP LU-11
BACK PAGE OF LOGAN URBANIZED AREA MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 87
The roads  can be further defined based on the overall function of each road type.  These functi onal
classifications  define the road network within the County.  This road network is composed of four
classifications of  different road types.  Table LU-23 defines the different functional classifications  of
the road network
TABLE LU-23 RIGHT-OF-WAY FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION
Classification Definition
Major Arterial
 Minor Arterial
Major Collector
Local
The primary function of these roads is to move traffic  to de stinations
within  Cache County and to provide acce ss in and out of the County.
During  the peak hours, these roads h andle  most of the traffic demand
within  the County.  These roads should have limit ed ac cess to adjacent
land use.
Although  the function of these streets is very similar to a majo r arte rial,
there are more compromises that allow for access to adjacen t lan ds.
Generally,  these streets are located on an 80' right-of-way and may
connect  to major arterial through  intersections or directly  through gradual
transitions in major arterial.
These  roads serve mainly intern al neighborhood traffic movements or
connect  an area with the  art erial street system.  The intent is to handle
through  traffic for short distances.  Collector streets provide the link to
minor streets and  are generally characterized  by two lanes of traffic with
an ample median/turning  lane or by four lanes with no parking allowed on
streets  during peak hours.  Right-of-way needs can be satisfied by 66 feet.
The primary purpose of these streets is to provide good acc essibilit y to
land.  Traffic volumes should be very  low and traffic  movement is slow.
On-street  parking combined with short lengths and reduced pavement
width yields essentially a on e lane  street within less than a 60' right-of-
way.
Each of the different classifications is able to  handle different  amounts of traffic capacity within a safe
speed.  Table LU-24 below is a breakdown of the general characteristics of the streets.
TABLE LU-24 GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS OF STREETS
Classifi cations Traffic Capacity Speed Right-of-Way
Freeway
Major Arterial
Minor Arterial
Collector
Local
2000 v phpl*
650 - 1200 vphpl
550 - 700 vphpl
400 - 650 vphpl
< 400 vphpl
55 mph
> 45 mph
35 - 45 mph
30 - 40 mph
< 30 mph
> 150 feet  
> 100 feet
80 - 110 feet
66 - 84 feet
< 66 feet
*vehicles  per hour per t ravel lane
SOURCE: Wasatch Front Regional Council
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 88
Table  LU-25 and Map LU-12 indicate Federal and State designated  highways within Cache County and
a description and functional classification for each.
TABLE LU-25 FEDERAL AND STATE HIGHWAYS AND CLASSIFICATION
Highway Description Classification
US Highway 89/91
US Highway 91
US Highway 89
State Highway 23
State Highway 30
State Highway 61
State Highway 101
State Highway 142
State Highway 165  
State Highway 200
State Highway 218
State Highway 237
 State Highway 238
 State Highway 239
State Highway 243
State Highway 288
From Box Elder County line through  Wellsville  Canyon northerly to 400
North in Logan.
From 400 North in Logan  northerly via North Logan, H yde  Park, and
Smithfield t o Utah-Idaho state line near  Franklin, Idaho.
From Main Street at 400 North in Logan, via Logan Canyon to the Rich
County line.
From US Highway 89/91 south of Wellsville northerly via Wel lsvi lle,
Mendon,  Petersboro, Newton, and Cornish to the Utah-Idaho state line
near Weston, Idaho
From the Box Elder County Line to US Highway 89/91 at Main Street at
200 North in Logan.
From Route 23 at Cornish easterly through Lewiston  to Route 91 at
Webster Junction.
From Wellsville on Route  23 easterly vi a Hyrum  to the Hardware Ranch
with a stub connection to the Visitor’s Center and parking area.
From Route 23 near Newton to Clarkston;  thence easterly via Trent on to
US Highway 91.
From Paradise northerly via Hy rum and Nibley to US Highway 89/91 in
Logan.
From Route 61 northerly to  the Utah-Idaho State Line nea r Preston,  Idaho
State H ighway 23 East of Newton easterly to US Highway  91 in
Smithfield
From 700 North and 800  East in Logan northerly to Hyde Park; thence
west to US Highway 91 west of Hyde Park.
From Route 165 East to Millville; thence northerly via Pro viden ce and
River Heights to US Highway 89/91 in Logan
From US Highway 91 East coincident  with 1400 North to State Highway
237
From US Highway 89  in Logan Canyon to Beaver Mountain Ski  Resort.
From US Highway 89 at 120 0 E ast in Logan, Utah State Univ ersity, via
1200 East and 1000 North t o State Highway 237.
Principal Arterial
Principal Arterial
Principal Arterial
Major Collector
Minor Arterial
Major Collector
Major Collector
Major Collector
Minor Arterial
Major Collector
Major Collector
Minor Arterial
Minor Arterial
Minor Arterial
Major Collector
Urban Collector
Source: Utah Department of Transportation
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 89
MAP LU-12
CACHE COUNTY FUNCTIONAL CLASS SYSTEM MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 90
MAP-12
BACK PAGE OF CACHE COUNTY FUNCTIONAL
 CLASS SYSTEM MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 91
MASS TRANSIT
The transit department of  the City of Logan, known as the  “Logan Transit District” (LTD), was instituted
under Utah State  Code  10-8-86 following a public referendum in November 1990.  The referendum
established  a one-quarter  percent sales tax within Logan City, and these revenues are dedicated to public
transportation.   A six-bus fixed-route and on e-bu s ADA paratransit service began on April 27, 1992.
Minor service adjustments have resulted in a current  peak-level of seven fixed-route buses, and  an annual
service level surpassing 26,000 hours.
The system remains fare-free to all residents  of  and visitors to Logan, and provides more than 850,000
trips per year.  Operating expenses and capital matching  fund s are provided by the sales tax revenues;
Federal  Transit Administration (FTA) funds  are used  to replace capital items on a programmed basis.
The LTD is a participating member of the Cache Metropolitan Planning Organization, the body charged
with regional transportation planning for the Logan Urbanized Area.
The LTD has been recognized by the FT A as the sole re cipient of Federal transit funds in the Logan
Urbanized  Area.  The cu rrent organizational structure of the LTD consists of the Transit Manager (a
department  head position with the City of Logan)  and a Transit Assistant.  The operations facility,
operations  and maintenance staff, and vehicle maintenance is provided by a private manag ement fir m
(currently  contracted to DAVE Transportation Services, Inc.).  Vehicles and fuel are provided by  the City
of Logan.  A seven-member Citizen Advisory Board assists the City of Logan administration with policy-
making.
The mission of the  Logan Transit District is to provide  public transportation that enhances the quality of
life in our community.  The LTD will: provide  safe, reliable, and  effective service; provide accessible,
efficient,  and convenient transportation; enhanc e the community aesthetically, economically and
environmentally;  seek public participation through the pu blic hearing process; and reasonably
accommodate the needs of a diverse population.
RAILROADS
Approximately  43 miles of Union Pacific  Railroad branch line extends from Cache Junction  to the Idaho
State line where it continues to Preston.  Two local trai ns r un daily on this line distributing or
redistributing  raw materials and finished products to various commerci al i ndustries throughout Cache
Valley.
Forty to sixty cars carrying a  monthly average of 55 tons per car terminate in Cache County.   At Cache
Junction,  the 120 to  140 cars that originate in Cache County hook up to Union Pacific trains that head
southward  through Ogden or northward through Pocatello on  the main line.  Approximately 16 trains a
day travel the 17.4 miles of main line that extends through Cache County.  The above figures indicate
that approximately 33 percent  more materials  are exported by rail from Cache County than are imported.
The safety between rail and motor vehicle traffic is a major issue that should be taken into consideration.
 Whenever these two forms  of transportation come in contact, the potential for dangerous accidents may
occur.   Table LU-26 on the following page shows the different railroad-s treet c rossing types with the
relative hazard associated with each type.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 92
TABLE LU-26 RAILROAD CROSSING AND RELATIVE HAZARD
TYPE OF CROSSING RELATIVE HAZARD
Crossbucks   
   Stop Signs
   Wigwags
   Flashing Lights
   Gated
1.00
0.58
0.34
0.20
0.11
SOURCE: Wasatch Front Regional Council
Based on the above table,  the gated crossing is 10 times safer than the crossbuck crossing.   However,
a gated crossing will at times restrict the flow of traffic.
AIRPORTS
There  are two airports of importance to Cache County,  Logan-Cache and  Salt Lake International.  These
two airports provide the aviation needs of the region.  Below is  a brief description  of these airports and
the services they provide.
Logan-Cache  Airport  - The Logan-Cache Airport  serves as a General Aviation airport in the FAA’s
National  Plan of Integrated Airport Systems (NPIAS).  It is fur ther classifi ed as a General Utility
airport.   The Logan-Cache Airport is a publicly-owned airport  located in central Cache County.  The
service  area for the Logan-Cache Airport consists of  Utah’s Cache and Rich Counties and portions
of Utah’s Box Elder County and Idaho’s Franklin and Bear Lake Counties.  
Salt Lake International Airport  -  Salt Lake International Airport, ow ned by the Salt Lake City
Corporation  and operated by the Salt Lake City Air port Authori ty.  Salt Lake City International
Airport  is presently one of the fastest grow ing large hub airports in the country.  The airport is the
only major air carrier airport in the State of Utah and serves Utah, southern Idaho and we stern
Wyoming.   Salt Lake International Airport is the major regional airport for air carriers and business
activities.   Its main function is t o serve the co mmercial side of aviation.  The Salt Lake City
International  Airport will continue to accommodate the activities  of the Utah Air National Guard, the
Army Reserve, and general aviation aircraft.
Almost  every complaint imposed against an  airport and based on either safety concerns or  airport noise
can be attributed to poor, inadequate, or nonexistent land  use planning and zoning of property in  close
proximity  to t he airport.  Residential encroachment on the airport places the most stress on an airport.
Good land use and development plans, based on an in-depth compatibility study, are among the most
potent and  affordable ways to protect an airport while still allowing development near an airport.   This
process  could save the local taxpayers many dollars by avoiding the purchase of additional land  to protect
the airport.  Currently, the  Logan-Cache Airport has plans to update the master plan to deal with the  new
growth  at the airport.  The hope is to increase funding  to deal with the increase usage and demands on
the airport.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 93
TRANSPORTATION ISSUE STATEMENT
The transportation system of Cache County  plays a very important part in the development of different
land uses within the County.  As discussed earlier,  transportation has a reciprocal relationship with other
land uses.  We are suc h a mo bile society and very dependent on our automobiles, a well designed and
managed  transportation system is critical.  A good trans portation system provides for the economic
health, convenience and safety of the residents of Cache County.
The transportation system within Cache County is made up of three  diffe rent transportation networks.
They include the State’s functional classification  system, Cache County  priority road system, and local
municipal  streets network.  These different  transportation networks are owned and managed by separate
public  jurisdi ctions and when combined, form the overall transportation system for Cache County.
Because  a transportation system is ma naged by different groups with separate interests, the role and
responsibility each jurisdiction plays in the overall transportation system are unclear.
These  unclear roles and responsibility within the total transporta tion system sometimes create
coordination  problems of the system.  As each jurisdict ion con siders their own network’s needs, there
is little consideration of  other jurisdiction’s needs.  Finger-pointing  and blaming another party for failures
within the transportation system is a common problem.  Many times there are unreal ex pectation s
concerning  the role of the larger entities  and their assumed responsible for solving the problems with  the
entire  transportation system.  This cycle of blaming each  other and creating unreal expectation will
eventually lead to mistrust and finally a poorly coordinated transportation sys tem.
It is important  to understand that a transportation system is regional by nature.  Roads do not  just begin
or end at a jurisdictional boundar y.  For a transportation system to function properly each individual
jurisdiction  must understand their role in the development and maintenance of  the total system.  Failure
or lack of support on their part to maintain or develop their portion of the system will eventual lead to
increased  traffic proble ms and p lace the financial burdens on the more responsible jurisdiction to find
alternative solutions.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 94
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 95
ESSENTIAL FACILITIES AND SERVICES
Within  Cache County there are a number of different essential facilities and services that are provided
to the citizens.  These services  come from different sources like the public,  service districts, and private
utility  companies.  For an area to develop  it is necessary to provide  sufficient facilities and services to
the public.  Suppling these faciliti es and serv ices is a primary function of every level of government.
Many of them are directly funded  and operated through tax monies such as government, police, fire, and
schools.   Others are funded through direct payment for services and generated by private or quasi-public
entities,  such as water/sewer services and utilities.  Some services are  required by law and others are
provided  in response to a public referendum or to a perceived  need in a  particular area.  Police and fire
departments  represent the former, libraries, parks and hospitals represen t the  latter.  The operation of
these facilities and services have a direct  and sometimes great impact  on the lives and the quality of life
of the citizens.
The capacity of the County to  accommodate expected growth, is best assessed by consideration of the
facilities  and services that are essential for the population and their limitations.  Over the  last few years
our use of these services has  increased and the available capacity in each  area is diminishing.  As these
trends continue, as capacities are reached, additional service capability will be required.  How the
capability  is best developed and provided are just a few of the critical  questions that must be addressed
in the areas of delivery of essential facilities and services.
The primary issues surrounding  essent ial facilities and service are costs and levels of performance.
Costs and levels of per formance a re related through an equation to determine the efficiency of the
service.   Efficiency of any given fac ility or service is a key issue considered when any type of
comparison  is made to like services in the region. If thes e faciliti es or services can be provided more
efficiently  and cost effectively, the County should try to pursue that course.  Sometimes sharing of
service  through quasi-public entities mig ht more efficiently handle essential facilities and services or
the County might even consider privatization of services.  
POLICE  
The Cache County Sheriff’s Office provides law enforcement services to the unincorporate d count y
areas as well as most of the communities in the county under a contractual agreement.  The only
communities  in the cou nty that  have their own police departments are Logan with 51 officers, North
Park (North Logan and Hyde Park) with 6  and Utah State University with 12 officers.  The Sheriff’s
Office  employs 55 full time deputies, 21 of whic h ar e assigned to the county jail and do not provide
patrol  services on the street level.  Two deputies are assigned to Smithfield permanently, two to Hyrum
permanently and one to Wellsville permanently through the Federal Cops Fast Grant  program.
The average number of officers per 1000 population in Cache  County is  2.6.  The national average is
2.1 per 1000.  The Stat e of Utah  average is 1.7 per 1000.  These figures do not include the deputies
assigned  to the County Jail and thus not available to provide street law enforcement services.  Th e
Sheriff’s Office  ratio is 1.1 per 1000 which is significantly below both the  state average of  1.7 per 1000
and the national average of 2.1 per 1000.  Figure LU-9 on the following page shows a compariso n of
the number  of deputies in the County Sheriff’s Office versus the number  of crimes per 1000.  From the
figure  we can see there may be a correlation between the number of deputies and the number  of crimes.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 96
FIGURE LU-9 CACHE CO SHERIFF’S DEPUTIES & CRIMES/1000 PEOPLE
Source: Cache County Sheriff’s Department
Table  LU-27 provides a detailed breakdown of the police service needs based on the population
projections  of Cache  County.  The table includes the County Sheriff, patrol officers, investigators, and
jail personnel.  The Sheriff’s Office administrative personnel are not included as part of this table.
TABLE LU-27 POLICE SERVICE NEEDS IN CACHE COUNTY
Comm unity Current # of Officers         # Needed 2000           # Needed 2010         # Needed 2020
Amalga
Clarkston
Cornish
Hyde Park
Hyrum
Lewiston
Logan
Mendon
Millville
Newton
Nibley
North Logan
Paradise
Providence
Richmond
River H eights
Smithfield
Trenton
Wellsville
County Svc.
County Svc.
County Svc.
2.5
2 County Officers
County Svc.
County Svc.
County Svc.
County Svc.
County Svc.
County Svc.
2.5
County Svc.
County Svc.
County Svc.
County Svc.
2 County Officers
County Svc.
1 County Officer
.66
1.11
.33
3.02
9.06
2.5
56.06
.93
2.43
1.14
2.60
5.53
.95
6.28
3.6
2.11
9.87
.46
3.96
.80
1.30
.37
3.82
11.42
2.8
64.49
1.64
3.33
1.32
4.03
7.48
1.09
7.92
4.5
2.35
11.75
.56
4.77
.92
1.44
.39
4.61
13.76
3.0
71.09
1.99
4.41
1.46
6.13
9.75
1.20
9.36
5.4
2.53
13.36
.65
5.48
County Total 114 122.05 146.67 170.81
Source: Bear River Association of Governments
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 97
The number of officers  for Logan City  and Cache County were based on population projection and the
number  of officers  per 1000 citizens and were calculated to be 1.5 officers.   The number of officers for
North Logan  and Hyde Park  were based on the population projections for the combined communities
and the number of officers per 1000 citizens was calculated to be 1.1 officers.
FIRE
Fire protection with  Cache County is provided through the  Cache County Fire District.  The Fire District
is broken into 12 fire zones.  Map  LU-13 on the following page shows  the fire zones for Cache County.
The different fire  zones are made up of a number  of full time or volunteer Fire Departments depending
on the Fire Zone.  Table LU-28 shows the different fire zones, equipment, and manpower.
TABLE LU-28 FIRE DISTRICT ZONES, EQUIPMENT AND MANPOWER
Zone
Fire
Engines
Tender
Truck
Brush
Engines
Aux.
Unit
Squad
Unit
Ladder
Truck
Fresh A ir
Truck
Fire
 Fighters
 1-Clarkst on
 2-Lewiston
 3-Richmond
 4-Smith field
 5-Newton
 6-Wellsv ille
 7-Logan
 8-Hyrum
 9-Paradise
10-Trenton
11-Mendon
12-No. Logan
2
2
1
2
1
2
3
3
2
1
1
3
1
1
3
1
5
2
1
2
2
1
1
1
1
2
1
2
1
2
1
2
2
2
3
2
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
15
20
18
25
18
20
30
20
18
15
15
25
Total 23 21 21 6 6 1 1 239
Source: Cache County Fire District
The following list is a description of the different fire fighting equipment and the function of each:
Fire Engine - Primary vehicle used to fight fires by  pump water.  The capacity of the engines in the
County range from 500 gallons per minute to 1500 gallons per minute.
Tender  Truck -  Vehicles used mainly as a water shuttle for fire engines.  These  trucks  have a
capacity  of 1000 gallons or grea ter.  The size of the trucks in the County range from 1200
gallons to 5000 gallons.
Brush Engine -  Vehicles mainly used  to fight wild land fires.  These vehicles carry 300  gallons of
water or less.
Auxiliary Unit -  Vehicles used to carry  miscellaneous equipment, supplies and for  transportation
of personnel.
Squad Unit  - Vehicles that carry medical and/or rescue equipment.
Ladder Truck -  Vehicles mounted with a ladder.
Fresh Air Truck -  Vehicles whose main purpose is t o p rovide fresh air to fill air bottles for fire
fighters in the field.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 98
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 99
MAP LU-13
CACHE COUNTY FIRE ZONE MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 100
MAP LU-13
BACK PAGE OF CACHE COUNTY
FIRE ZONE MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 101
The Forest Service also has some equipment and manpower that are available to fight fires in the 
National Forest Areas when necessary.  The Forest Service has approximately 43 fire fighters and 2
brush engines.
CULINARY WATER
Culinary water in Cache County is being provided by one of three different methods. These three
methods are: (1) Municipal Water Systems; (2) Service District or Water Companies, and; (3)
Individual wells and springs. 
Municipal Water Systems
Generally municipal water systems include four elements: supply, treatment, storage, and a
distribution system.  One of these factors usually limits the ability of the system to provide adequate
service or accommodate system expansion.  Each of the existing communities provides a municipal
water system. Table LU-29 shows the municipal water systems within Cache County.
TABLE LU-29 MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEMS
Comm unity System
 Capacity (mgd)
System
Age (years)
Linear
Size (miles)
     Service
Area (sq. M iles)
           Users/User
            Capacity
Amalga
Clarkston
Cornish
Hyde Park
Hyrum
Lewiston
Logan
Mendon
Millville
Newton
Nibley
North Logan
Paradise
Providence
Richmond
River H eights
Smithfield
Trenton
Wellsville
-NA-
1.5
.7
.9
11.8
2.5
30
1.1
1.5
.46
.8
4.1
.25
3.5
3.5
1.2
5.7
.2
4.5
56
100
60
5
8
74
130
17
58
80
64
60
60
64
1
59
88
50
100
11
24
18
15.7
30
159
146
10.3
19
12.5
10
50
-NA-
33
1.6
5.7
32
-NA-
30
3.5
5
6
8
2
47
12
2
1.5
4.5
3.1
6
.8
2.7
2
.5
2.5
20
3.5
109/109
220/150
80/125
660/700
1250/1500
494/665
10,894/20,000
82/82
345/400
200/200
1350/2000
1168/3343
185/250
1015/1100
545/856
412/600
1600/2500
151/175
700/-NA-
Source:  Bear River District Infrastructure Inventory and Analysis, BRAG, September 1994
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 102
Service District and Water Companies
There are one service district and four water companies providing water to unincorporated areas of
Cache County.  Table LU-30 shows the service district and water companies water systems within
Cache County.
TABLE LU-30 SERVICE DISTRICT AND WATER COMPANIES
System
System
 Capacity (mgd)
System
Age (years)
Linear
Size (miles)
Service
Area (sq. M iles)
Users/User
Capacity
Benson SID
Gilbert Springs
Highcreek
Riverside
South Cove
.084
--
--
--
--
3
--
--
--
--
24
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
--
142/300
18/
17/50
--
24/
Source:  Individual District
Individual Wells
There are approximately 2400  domestic wells providing culinary water to residential homes in
Cache County.  Most of these wells are located within the unincorporated areas of the County.
WASTEWATER
Communities have the responsibility of assuring that wastewater does not adversely affect the health,
the environment, or private property.  Depending on the communities’ needs, this could involve
monitoring on-site septic systems or operating a sewer system.  The primary elements of a sewer
system are the collection system and the treatment facility.  Communities within the County utilize a
range of sewage treatment methods such as on-site septic systems, sewage lagoons, and treatment
plants.  Wastewater or sewage is currently handled either by municipal systems or by individual on-
site septic tanks.  Table LU-31 shows the existing municipal sewer systems in Cache County.
TABLE LU-31 MUNICIPAL SEWER SYSTEMS IN CACHE COUNTY
System
System
 Capacity (mgd)
System
Age (years)
Linear
Size (miles)
Service
Area (sq. M iles)
Users/User
Capacity
Hyde Park
Hyrum
Lewiston
Logan
North Logan
Providence
Richmond
River H eights
Smithfield
Wellsville
1.71
1.18
1.23
21.84
.951
.39
4.68
.18
.93
.78
1
16
20
30
11
3
22
12
4
24
18
-NA-
8.2
120
50
26
13.2
5.7
30
17
1.8
1.7
5
12
6
1.4
2
.4
2.5
1.8
492/1,650
1,150/1,750
187/1,320
12,000/19,000
1,165/3,600
890/1,100
580/-NA-
410/700
1,590 /-NA-
600/-NA-
Source:  Bear River District Infrastructure Inventory and Analysis, BRAG, September 1994
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 103
Smithfield, Hyde Park, North Logan, River Heights, and Providence all have a sewer collection
infrastructure but a contract with Logan for the use of the sewage treatment facility.  The remaining
communities Amalga, Clarkston, Cornish, Mendon, Millville, Newton, Nibley, Paradise, Trenton
and the unincorporated areas of the County use individual on-site septic systems.  As discussed in
the  Physical Environment Section of the Land Use Element some of these on-site septic systems are
located and concentrated in aquifer recharge areas and may become a problem in the future for
ground water.
SOLID WASTE
The collection and disposal of sold waste stems from the concern that improperly stored or treated
waste can feed and harbor disease-bearing pests and endanger public health.  Local government also
has an interest in assuring that streets are clean and waste is treated as resource (recycling and
composting) as much as possible, that all operations are free of public nuisances, and that they are
not a public hazard.
All solid waste in Cache County is currently being collected in the Logan landfill, located just west
of Logan.  The Logan landfill is the only open and approved solid waste facility in Cache County. 
The Logan landfill has served Logan City since 1960 and all of Cache County since 1974.  The
current landfill occupies approximately 85 acres.  The landfill uses an area fill method.  The original
85 acres has been excavated approximately 6 to 8 feet below the original ground elevation.  The
excavated area has been filled to an elevation generally 10 feet above the original ground elevation.
Solid waste collection and disposal in Cache County are administered by the Cache County Service
Area No. 1.  The Service Area contracts with Logan City to provide collection and disposal service
for solid waste generated in the County. 
The Logan landfill has an estimated 20 year life span.  With the increasing population growth
pressure in the County there will be increased demands on the existing solid waste facilities. 
Currently the County and Logan City are performing studies to determine potential sites for a new
landfill to handle the disposal needs for the County in the future.  Other alternatives should be
considered such as recycling, burn facilities, shipping out of county, and privatization of the system. 
STORM DRAINAGE
Currently, in Cache County the issue of storm drainage has not been well addressed.  Much of the
storm drainage historically has been handled by the natural river and stream and the existing
irrigation canal systems.  However, the problem of handling storm drainage within Cache County
will continue to grow as the population base grows.  The State of Utah have begun to require
communities to develop plans for dealing with storm drainage within their communities
The storm drainage issue will need to be addressed and long term solutions determined.  A regional
storm water management plan will be necessary and important to handle this issue.  Storm drainage
is a regional issue which cannot and should not be handled on a local level.  The issue needs to have
a regional perspective and any plans and solutions should be countywide.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 104
SCHOOLS
There are a number of educational opportunities within the County which provide for the needs of
the citizens of Cache County.  These opportunities range from public and technical schools to
institutions of higher learning.
Public Schools
There are two public school districts within Cache County.  The Logan City School District which
covers school aged children within Logan City boundaries and the Cache County School District that
serves school aged children within the remainder of the County.  Table LU-32 below shows the
different facilities offered by each school district
TABLE LU-32 SCHOOL  DISTRICTS  BY  TYPE  AND  ENROLLMENT
School
District
  High
School    Student
 9th Grade
 Centers  Student
Middle  
School  Student
Elementary
School Student
Cache Co.
Logan  City
3
1
3,004
2,686
2
0
1,095
0
4
1
3,121
1,404
11
6
5,082
2,686
Total 4 5,690 2 1,095 5 4,525 17 7,768
Source: Cache and Logan City School Districts
There are approximately 19,078 children attending public schools in the Logan and Cache School
districts.  
Bridgerland Applied Technology Center
In addition to the local school district the Bridgerland Applied Technology Center (BATC) provides
a technical training facility.  This center provides technical training to high school and adult students
of Cache, Box Elder, and Rich Counties.  Currently, the BATC has an annual enrollment for 6,500
students who are enrolled in 35 occupational courses in such diverse fields as automotive service,
dairy herd management, welding, electronics, diesel mechanics, office occupations, and building
construction.  The Bridgerland Applied Technology Center is fully accredited by the Utah State
Board of Education and offers competency and completion certificates for students successfully
completing course requirements.
Utah State University
Utah State University is one of four accredited universities and the second largest in the State of
Utah.  Utah State University was founded in 1888 as Utah’s Land-grant College.  The university has
an international reputation for research and teaching.  Utah State’s current enrollment exceeds
20,000 students at its main campus and educational centers in Southeastern and Uintah Basin of
Utah.  Utah State University also  provides Cooperative Extension Service.  Cooperative Extension
has 30 offices located throughout the state and specialists in 20 departments on Campus.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 105
UTILITIES
Both private and public entities provide utilities such as electricity, natural gas, and telephone
services.  Most private and public entities anticipate that they can handle any growth within their
current systems.  As  the County and communities develop consideration for the placement of these
improvements should be incorporated into the development process.
Electricity  - is available throughout the county.  Utah Power provides it to most of the communities
and unincorporated areas of Cache County.  Logan and Hyrum City own and operate electrical
utility systems within their communities.
Natural Gas -  is provided and available within most populated areas of the County by Mountain
Fuel Supply Co.  There are some areas of the County that do not receive natural gas service due
to the cost of running the infrastructure.  It is not economically feasible yet due the small
population bases.
Telephone - Local service is provided through US West Communication.  US West provides digital
switching and T1 service to the area.  Long distance service is available by a number of long
distance providers.
Most communities expect the subdivider to arrange for gas, electrical, and telephone service.  It is
now common to require the under grounding of local gas, electricity, and telephone cables, at least
where soil, water tables and terrain permits, and  where lots are less than one acre in size.
The accepted practice for locating underground lines varies.  Developers can save money by locating
telephone, electricity, and cable lines under the pavement in common trenches with sewer, water,
and gas lines, if the utilities are willing to cooperate.  Efforts on the part of communities should
continue to work closely with the utility companies when and where new development takes place.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
The development of essential services and facilities come from either the public or private sector. 
The development of theses services and facilities from the private sector should be coordinated
through the development process.  However, public services and facilities provided by the County or
communities should be coordinated and planned for by a Capital Improvements Program.  A Capital
Improvements Program is a process of budgeting for large-scale public facilities which are expected
to have a relatively long life, usually ten years or more, and usually exceed $2,000.00 in value.
ESSENTIAL FACILITIES AND SERVICES ISSUE STATEMENT
The primary role of county and municipal government is to provide needed public facilities and 
services citizens for their communities.  This facilities and services include such things as public
safety (police and fire), public utilities, water and sewer services, solid waste collection and disposal,
storm water management, and public education.  The level of services provided varies depending on
the size of the  community.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 106
Cache County provides very few municipal type services, while the cities of Cache County provide
most of the different municipal type services.   Cache County has maintained a policy that urban
services should be provided by the existing municipalities and not the County.  The primary reason
is most of the existing municipal type facilities and services are now located within the existing
communities.  There has been limited urban development within the unincorporated areas so there
has been no need to provide the services.  However, as increasing urban development continues to
locate in the unincorporated areas the demand on the County to start providing more services. 
Development of a land use ordinance and standards that limit the type and size of development in the
unincorporated areas will go a long way to maintain limited urbanization of the unincorporated areas
of Cache County.
There are number municipalities within Cache County that are fairly small and provide only limited
public facilities and services to their citizens.  In many cases these municipalities have share services
with the County or other municipalities to make available more services.  Some of the services 
communities combine together to share include, solid waste collection, fire and police protection,
sewer systems, and others.  The sharing of services is one the most cost effective methods by which
small communities can provide increased level services to their residents.
A number of national studies have shown in larger urban areas the sharing of facilities and services
can be the most cost effect method to increase the level of services to the public.  The primary
concerns  most municipalities have with the sharing of services are in two areas.  These areas are the
perception of a loss of control and the cost of providing services and are the hardest of overcome. 
Most municipalities are very reluctant to give up total control of the services within their
community.   Many municipalities are overly concerned about the maintaining the  costs will
continue to pay more for providing the service.
In this time of increasing demand and cost of services the County and municipalities  should work
closer to identify potential services that could be developed based on shared services.  As the
population in Cache County continues to grow, this demand will increase.  Working together, the
County and municipalities can develop more areas of shared services.  The primary areas of
concerns are control and cost of services.  These concerns should be set aside in favor of increasing
the level of services to citizens of Cache County.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 107
GOALS AND STRATEGIES
Citizen involvement in planning is an opportunity, a right, and an obligation.  It is the aspect of the
planning  process which reflects the consensus of citizens' feelings and attitudes about the future growth
of the community.  The citizens' participation  in this phase of the planning process serves as a means
to gain insight from the residents of any existing problems and to maximize the opportunit y for them
to make recommendations on the potential development of the community.   This effort was designed
to increase awareness, simulate discussion and develop  a consensus by individuals  living in the County
from which public policy recommendations can be derived.
COMMITTEES
Citizen  Committees were  formed to develop goals and strategies  for the Land Use Element of the Cache
Countywide  Comprehensive Plan, based on the public input from the different open houses held in the
County.   In order to aid in thei r deliberations of the total County needs, the participants were divided
in the following committees at the public meeting:
C Agricultural
C Quality of Life
C Residential Housing Development
C Commercial/Industrial Development
C Transportation
C Essential Facilities and Services
Each committee developed a set  of goals and strategies based on the committee’s area of emphasis.  The
development  of these goals and strategies is the best me thod of ac hieving full expression from like
interest  groups and is a means of arriving at a  final plan by way of comparing and combining  different
goals and strategies.  These  goals and strategies will be combined in preparation and will  form the basis
of the final plan.  This process allows for the different perspectives to be expressed  and understood.  This
process will also be an educational process for the entire County.
Over a period of four  months committee members would meet, usually during the evening or early
morning, and discuss both  problems and possible solutions to their assigned area  of emphasis.  These
dedicated  individuals spent many hours identif ying, studying, deliberating and preparing goals and
strategies  to reflect the unique needs and desires of the County.  The final result of each com mitt ee’s
efforts  was a comprehensive list of goals  and strategies to address specific problems in  the County.  The
goals for the Comprehensive Plan are general statements that express very broad ideals for the future
direction  of the County.  These statements  are followed  by strategies suggesting how the goals might
be achieved.
The difficulty of arriving at a consensus for community deve lopm ent through a series of formalized
goals and strategies is often evi denced b y the submission of conflicting goals by the various interest
groups.   Nevertheless, the process de scribed ab ove worked very well and the results were very
satisfying.   The following section outlines  the various goals and strategies for the Land Use Element  of
the Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan for the next 20 years.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 108
The citizens of Cache County contributed their time, talents and effort in developi ng this imp ortant
document.   They represent  individuals who share a sense of civic duty, volunteerism,  and willingness
to make a difference.  Cache County owes  each a vote of gratitude for their dedicated work in helping
to improve their County and its quality of life.
AGRICULTURE COMMITTEE
Grant L. Nelson
Clark Israelsen
Ross A. Jacobs on
Weldon S. Slei ght
Gordon Younker
Noble Erickson
Don A. Huber
Darrell L.  Gibbons
Guy Ray Pulsipher
Allen Gardner
Jon C. M eikle
Ed Nelson
COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL COMMITTEE
Verne E. Bray
Terence Yorks
Eric Toll
Kathleen  Capels
Doug Thompson
Lauren Keller
Darla Clark
LaMar Clem ents
Larry Anhder
ESSENTIAL SERVICES
Lynn Davis
Glen Stringham
Sarah Ann Skanchy
Rick Lungman
Gary Olson
Rod Blossom
Thad Erickson
Wm. A.  M cCreary
QUALITY OF LIFE COMMITTEE
Don Taylor
Chris Coray
Wm. A. M cCreary Jr.
Jane Carls on
Georgette McCreary
Carolyn Lavae
Craig Petersen
Kim Meyer
RESIDENTIAL HOUSING DEVELOPMENT
Bruce Godderidge
J.R. Allred
Noel G ill
Craig Nelson
Beth Gill
Jack Nixon
Wm. A. M cCreary
 Michael Timmons
Georgette McCreary
Mark Larson
Jerry Allen
TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE
Lee Nelson
Gordon Miller
Layne Beck
Bruce Bishop
Geoff Straw
Joe Kirby
John Nicholson
Michael Nils on
Larry Olsen
Ross Wilson
Andy Huneck
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 109
AGRICULTURE
The A griculture Committee identified the importance and value of agricultural uses to Cache
County.  The continued pressure on these areas to become urbanized and sudden loss of open space
and viable agricultural land was a major concern. 
GOAL 1: Maintain  agricultural an d open space within Cache County, which provide  food,
security,  watersheds, clean air and adds to the quality of life  for people and nature of
the region
Objectives:
C Encourage urban development within current and existing urban areas
C Encourage  the protection of  agricultural and open space within the unincorporated areas of Cache
County
C Encourage  cities to maintain agricultural and open space  within and between existing
communities where possible
C Encourage  the retent ion and con tinued use of farm land for present and future generations as a
valuable natural resource
Strategies:
1.1 Create local land trusts to encourage and acquire open space
- Work to upgrade Agriculture Protection Area to provide enhancements and incentives
- Educate public of important advantages and means of protecting agricultural land
1.2 Make changes in the Cache County Land Use  Ordinance to encourage protection of agricultural
land
- Eliminate  major subdivisions (6 lots  and more) within unincorporated areas of Cache County
- Limit sizes of subdivisions to 3 lots with an increase to 5 lots with incentives
- Create zoning standards to encourage cluster development vs. urban sprawl
- Limit uses in the agricultural zones to agriculture
1.3 Develop  an urban growth boundary which  defines growth potential for the existing communities
of Cache County
- Discourage leap frog development
- Encourage urban open space within existing communities
- Limit expansion of Urban Growth Boundary into areas of prime agricultural land
- Provide a regular review period for Urban Growth Boundary
1.4 Develop a Countywide Transportation Plan 
- Limit the impact of transportation on agricultural areas of County
- Discourage urban sprawl in agricultural area of County
GOAL 2: Prese rve agriculture and agricultural industry within Cache County to allow  farm
operators  the opportunity to use their farm land in appropriate farming operations
which will be in harmony with the agricultural use of the land
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 110
Objectives:
C Maintain agriculture production
C Encourage the economic value of farming as an industry
C Provide for agricultural supportive industries
Strategies
2.1 Encourage   studies of the economic value of agriculture and agricultural industries to Cache
County and review periodically
2.2 Work closer with Utah State University to create new industries and markets for the  farming and
agricultural industries in Cache County
2.3 Assist and enhance existing agricultural industries
2.4 Cache County should support and  protect agricultural uses  and industry within Cache County
with legal limits of the law
GOAL  3: To improve the planning process within Cache County  by providing a means by  which
individuals,  property owners and affected public jurisdictions may become more
involved in the process on a local level
Objectives:
C Provide increased public voice into the planning process in Cache County
C Increase the public participation and knowledge of proposals
C Provide  local area s with oppo rtunities to have input into planning decisions affecting their
respective areas
Strategies :
3.1 Develop  a process and structure  that allow for the increase of public input from local  areas of
Cache County
- Create planning districts or community councils
- Provide  for a comment period for local communities when development is within a ½ mile of
jurisdictional boundaries
3.2 Increase  input o f public en tities that can act as a resource to the Cache County Planning
Commission
- Identify  and coordinate with agencies of the Federal, State and Local government which may
have jurisdiction or interest in local land use decisions
3.3 Use local Soil Conservation Districts as a planning resource
- Consider the Soil Conservation Districts as an affected enmity in planning process
- Provide  for review by Soil Conservation Districts in al l planni ng decisions dealing with
agricultural areas
RESIDENTIAL HOUSING DEVELOPMENT
A principal concern of the Residen tial Housing Committee was to set standards for the location of
residential  housing development  and the providing of adequate services.  The committee focused on the
need to protect the open spaces and prevent urban sprawl within the County.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 111
GOAL  1: To limit urban sprawl and growth in non-urban areas of  Cache County and protect the
agriculture and open space
Objectives:
C Discourage the urban sprawl outside the existing communities
C Maintain agricultural and open space areas of the County
C Define appropriate areas for residential housing development
Strategies:
1.1 Develop Urban Growth and Service Area Boundary guidelines
- Separate urban from rural areas
- Define areas for urban services
- Protect open spaces
- Prevent urban sprawl
1.2 Subdividing  o f properties shall be limited to encouraging growth within incorporated areas
where proper services can be provided
1.3 Any subdividing of large parcels of land shall be subject to the following requirements.
- Any homes built shall be placed in a clustered  area in order to  make use of open spaces and to
minimize emergency and County road vehicle access
- Develop impact fees to help provide essential services
- Revise  Point System to help determine if subdividing should be allowed (flood
plain/slope/soil/roads/etc.)
- Public input shall be heard, weighed and investigated as to pertinent substance and impact
GOAL 2:  Preserve and protect the rural atmosphere of non-urban areas of Cache County
Objectives:
C Develop and enforce a clear, concise Land Use Ordinance
C Designate urban growth and service area boundaries
C Encourage the planning and maintaining of open space
C Encourage  ur ban growth within existing incorporated communities where the proper level of
services can be provided
Strategies:
2.1 Limit size of subdivisions to 4 houses in unincorporated areas
2.2 Limit large residential subdivisions to incorporated areas
2.3 Investigate  incentive programs to encourage pres ervation and maintenance in existing
communities  to increase property value, community pride, development potential and to also
prevent urban decay and “move-out” mentality
2.4 Impose impact fees to help provide essential services
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 112
GOAL 3: Define and provide adequate level of services
Objectives:
C Provide  law enforcement, fire, ambulance, and animal control cov erage equ ally throughout the
County
C Control pollution of all types: air, noise, visual, smell, taste
C Balance provision of essential services to rate of growth
Strategies:
3.1 Public Safety
- Identify personnel and funding requirements for 24 hour public safety coverage
- Determine if there is conflict of coverage for unincorporated areas
- Institute more neighborhood watch programs and clinics
- Establish Public Safety base at each end of the valley
- Train more EMT personnel
- Advertise for contracted commission salaried animal control officer
- Write stricter enforcement codes including increased fees and penalties for stray animals
- Review quantity of animals per lot size ordinances
- Consistent enforcement on complaint
3.2 Control  and limit increased pollution of all types: air, water (both surface and ground), noise,
visual, smell, and taste
- Establish permanent air quality monitoring stations in various County locations
- Implement and enforce air/odor pollution guidelines to exceed  Federal standards
- Consistently enforce air quality guidelines
- Consider voluntary vehicle emission program for Cache County
- Initiate/employ incentive programs for voluntary emission testing
- Write, implement and consistently enforce a Cache County Noise Ordinance
- Write,  implement and consistently enforce a policy  plan for dumping, junk yards, weed control
etc.
- Establish and encourage, through education, recycling programs
- Vigilant monitoring of pollution to recharge areas
- Tighten septic tank standards.
3.3 Coordination between County  Zoning Office  and State Engineer for water permits (minimum
water flow to be in place before building permit application accepted)
3.4 Coordination  between County Zoning Office and Bear River Health Department for septic  tank
permi ts (limit the number of septic tanks in primary and secondary recharge areas and sp ring
source areas)
GOAL  4: To protect private property rights  and discourage  unnecessary land speculation in  the
unincorporated areas of the county
Objectives:
C Plan and control growth without limiting income potential of property owners
C Plan and control growth without decreasing values and right of adjacent property owners
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 113
C Land use ordinances need to be: what the majority of the land owners want, wel l-defined,
understood,  easy to interrupt, no loop holes or conditional uses, and enforced  by an educated staff
Strategies:
4.1 Consider  a design committee to help evaluate land  use and the plot plans of  property owner’s
Make suggestions, if needed, to help improve benefits to property owners and Cache County
4.2 Develop incentives for clustering and open space considerations (density, and tax)
4.3 Allow and take into consideration adjacent property owner rights and opinions
4.4 Provide  educational information about land use options available to property owner s to
maximize their profits and to preserve this beautiful valley
4.5 Develop enforceable land use ordinances
- Zoning office should be able to say yes or no
- No favors or prejudices
GOAL 5: Promote and encourage the development of affordable housing by the private sector
Objectives:
C Encourage  the use of a ccessory dwelling units and downtown “loft” dwelling units (mixed use
zoning)
C Create opportunities  to form public/private  partnerships  in an effort to create affordable housing
C Create opportunities for special needs housing countywide
C Support programs which rehabilitate existing housing stock
C Promote centralized infrastructures through  zoning and incentives to  eliminate costly extension
of services to outlaying areas
Strategies:
5.1 Affordable  housing quotas will be establishe d for new subdivisions which require developers
to design and build a certain  percentage of their units to be marketable to  lower-income buyers
(regulation driven)
5.2 Density  bonuses will be created which woul d allow developers to increase the density of a
proposed  development providing the “quota” of  affordable units  are also developed (incentive
driven)
5.3 Designate, through zoning, portions of the incorporated  Cities in the County which  would allow
higher densities than the standard “large lot zoning”
5.4 Promote economic and cultural diversity through zoning and design
5.5 Accessory  dwelling units shall be  allowed in single family  zones provided they are approved by
special use permit
5.6 Apartment  or condo housing shall be allowed in downtown zones  in existing buildings provided
they are approved by special use permit
5.7 Cooperate  with existing housing  service providers  from the public and private sectors to create
affordable housing opportunities
5.8 Establish  an affordable housing  trust fund which will act as a revolving loan account to create
affordable housing opportunities
5.9 Create mechanisms for municipalities to donate surplus land for affordable housing projects.
   Liens can be placed to recapture land value once units are sold
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 114
5.10 Support  existing affordable housing programs and  increase awareness  of needs by facilitating
affordable housing seminars and guest lectures from housing service providers
5.11 Support  research, funding applications, a nd p roperty acquisition for a regional transitional
housing facility which would serve the “homeless” population in Cache County
5.12 Provide incentives to create affordable housing for persons with disabilities and the elderly
5.13 Create  incentives or support existing programs which  all ow lower income home owners to
repair their homes
5.14 Develop programs which encourage neighborhood reinvestment such as beautification, code
enforcement and other proactive measures
5.15 Zone core areas of communities higher density,  with decreasing  densities approaching urban
boundaries
5.16 Facilitate neighborhood commercial zoning in more urban communities
5.17 Encourage  land use patterns which minimize trip  generation to and from employment  centers’
thereby reducing congestion
5.18 Encourage alternate forms of transportation and pedestrian oriented design
GOAL  6: Provide protection  of the sensitive  areas and sites, taking into account the public  good
and property owner rights
Objectives:
C Encourage the protection of sensitive areas of Cache County
C Promote environmentally sound residential development
C Discourage residential development in sensitive areas 
Strategies:
6.1 Protect productive agricultural lands and irrigation systems and potential that serve them
6.2 Consider the following issues with residential development:
- slopes
- vegetation
- habitat
- including preventing and/or mitigating down slope pollution
- waste management
6.3 Plan against hazards of flooding or seismic activity
6.4 Consideration  of histor ic or scenic sites, so that their cultural and educational value may be
preserved and made available for the edification and enjoyment of all
GOAL 7: Maintain  and protect the pris tine and sensitive canyons and national forest areas  of
Cache County
Objectives:
C Encourage environmentally sensitive residential development
C Limit uncontrolled urbanization of areas
C Maintain the quality of the canyons and national forest areas
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 115
Strategies:
7.1 All current FR-40 should remain FR-40
7.2 Only seasonal secondary housin g should be allowed in order to minimize impacts on County
services, utilities and the environment
7.3 Clustering of residential type development should be allowed with incentives
- Unlotted areas must be dedicated as  permanent, public  or semipublic open space preserve.  For
example,  allowable units would be incr ease d based upon proposed net densities as indicated
below:
C 5 acre lots - 10% increase in total units
C 1 acre lots - 20% increase in total units
C ½ acre lots - 30% increase in total units
C 1/4 acre lots - 40% increase in total units
C Less than 1/4 acre lots up to 8 units per acre - 50% increase in total units
C Lodging (rooms and/or suites for rent) - 200% increase in total units
7.4 Guidelines prepared for all canyon development which should include at least the following:
- Site planning: in relation to slope, soils, vegeta tion , habitats, hazards, grading (limits of
disturbance), visibility
- Architecture: in relation to materials, colors, forms
7.5 Densities should decrease  as development gets  closer to the FR-40 line and as slopes increase
- 1 acre lot size minimum within 500 feet of FR-40 line
- No development on slopes greater than 30%
7.6 Limit development in canyon mouths along the Cache Valley
- Within 1/4 mile of major canyon mouths the minimum lot size should be 5 acres
- Minor canyon mouths should be left in open space with pedestrian access  corridors that  link to
other trail systems and adjacent communities
7.7 Development in the Powder Mountain Area
- Allow similar land use as Weber County via the cluster provision.  Weber County  will provide
all services
- Development must follow all guidelines provided for the rest of the FR-40 Zone
GOAL 8: Develop a set of consistent development ordinances within the County
Objectives:
C To encourage organized and planned future development of land in the County
C The objective is to develop criteria for specific ordinances
C To provide for consistent development and prevent development shopping
Strategies:
8.1 Develop a formal land use ordinance that will be  a part of a Countywide Comprehensive Plan
8.2 The ordinance document will include both broad g eneral guidelines and direction for future
growth and development
8.3 The ordinance will be clearly and concisely worded wit h carefully defined terms to avoid
subjective interpretation
8.4 It will provide objective determination for permitted and conditional uses
8.5 It will serve as the basis for responding to all requests t o bodies governing zoning and land
utilization
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 116
COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT
The potential of future commercial and industrial development is primary to  the financial health of any
community.   The Commercial and Industrial Dev elopment Committee examined the problems
associated  with present  and future commercial and industrial development needs, along with  strategies
to help maintain a viable tax base while protecting the quality of life for the County.
GOAL 1: Commercial and industrial development within Cache County should strive to bring
in industries that are revenue neutral in their effect on local government
Objectives:
C Encourage commercial/industrial close to areas where people work, shop, and live
C Encourage infill commercial/industrial development instead of leap frog development
C Encourage development within existing city boundaries before annexing new areas
C Encourage better development standards to protect major transportation routes
Strategies:
1.1 Encourage integration of work, shopping, and  residential development more  closely together,
which can minimize unnecessary travel
- Theme:  the farther out you go, the more it should cost
- Establish criteria for choice of nucleus sites
1.2 Commercial/industrial  zone areas should be better defined, so that existing zones are filled
before new ones are allowed
- Maps of existing areas that are commercial/industrial, and that are not agricultural
1.3 Create  uniform and  consistent planning standards across  all communities in the County, based
on standards and ordinances that have been proven to give desired results
1.4 Create  threshold standards for home-based businesses , beyond w hich they must move to
established commercial/industrial zones
1.5 Develop  a set of consistent development  sta ndards between the County and communities to
prevent development shopping:
- Shared access to major transportation routes
-“Commercial” and “industrial” needs to be explicitly defined, with subclasses among them
GOAL 2: Maintain  the economi c value of Cache Co unty’s resource base: the canyons  and
forested  areas of the County are a non-renewable  (irreplaceable) resource,  so further
urban commercial/industrial development within them should be limited
Objectives:
C Limit  commercial/industrial urban development within canyon  and forest areas  of Cache County
C Encourage  development with self-sufficiency  of services (this should include municipal-standard
water systems and secondary sewage treatment)
Strategies:
2.1 A set of overlay zones and standards should be developed for  each of  the canyon areas before
any further development should occur to protect their uniqueness
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 117
2.2 Performance  develop ment  standards should be developed requiring the blending of
commercial/industrial development with surroundings
- Develop a design review process for commercial/industrial development
- Visibility of development should be limited from existing roads
- There should be limited development within biologically-sensitive areas
- Any disruption of natural cover should be replaced (trees and shrubs)
2.3 Any commercial/industrial development in the forest and canyons areas sha ll not be located with
municipal watershed areas
2.4 Any development should have shared access to minimize the main road intersecti ons an d
visibility of development
GOAL 3: Control commercial/industrial mining (including gravel extraction)
Objectives:
C Protect the quality of life of neighboring land use
C Minimize the overall impacts of such operation on the County
Strategies:
3.1 All commercial/industrial mining operations  should develop  master plans and submit them for
approval by the County Planning Commission
3.2 The master plans of the operation should include the following for review:
- Operations Plan
- Transportation Plan
- Reclamation Plan
3.3 The commercial/ industrial mining operation should have reclamation plans which are concurrent
and continuous with the operation
3.4 All commercial/industrial mining operations should provide berming o f exis ting topsoil for
screening and stockpiling for reclamation
3.5 All federal and state permits should be consistent with local ordinances
3.6 Clear enforcement policy with penalties for violation of permits
GOAL 4: Control commercial/industrial logging
Objectives:
C Encourage protection of a limited natural resource
C Limit the impact on the environment
C Protect environmentally sensitive areas of the County
Strategies:
4.1 Logging  and cutting master plans  should be developed and be submitted for approval by County
Planning Commission
4.2 The master plans of the logging operation should include the following information for review:
- Operations Plan
- Transportation Plan
- Reclamation Plan
4.3 All federal and state permits should be consistent with local ordinances
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 118
4.4 Clear enforcement policy with penalties for violation of permits
4.5 Clear-cutting logging operations should be generally prohibited
4.6 Logging  is a commercial/industrial operation and  should not be considered as an agricultural use
GOAL 5: Administrative procedures for review of commercial/industrial projects
Objectives:
C Improve and simplify the process for review and approval of a project
C Provide a fair process to the public
C Encourage a customer service oriented environment to the public
Strategies:
5.1 A guiding ordinance needs to specify what  documentation requirements (e.g., site plans)  must
be submitted  as part of applications for development.  These may be tiered in detail according
to size of prospective impact, but nonetheless need s pecific guidelines. The county decision-
makers need a full set of information, while applicants need to know what that entails
5.2 There  must be a sp ecific time p eriod established in which the administrators must respond to
applications, either to accept or to reject
5.3 The administrative process needs to be streamlined, understandable, and coo rdinated.  To
accomplish  this, procedures must  be clearly  defined: to whom applications are to be sent, how
and by whom they are processed, how diffic ulties are t o be resolved, and who has final
responsibility for each step
5.4 Policy  objectives need to be clearly  stated: what is the application process trying to accomplish?
5.5 There  should be clear definition of where “no” will be an answer  to a development request, of
what will surely not be approved
5.6 The responsible administrator should have  training  and experience in the planning field, and
there should be a review mechanism to evaluate  administrative  performance at regular intervals
Goal 6: Consider agriculture and agricultural  industries  on the same level as other  commercial
and industrial uses
Objectives:
C Treat the farmer like any other business
C Bring more diversity back into local agriculture
C Enhance  the profitability,  thereby maintaining this land block in that highly desirable use pattern
Strategies:
6.1 Add agricultural and agricultural industries to the economic development agenda
6.2 Bringing Ag. Extension and USU more into focus on this issue could be an important aid
6.3 Development of value-added agriculturally-related industry
6.4 Work to develop new markets and opportunities for agriculture to maintain and enhan ce tha t
land use
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 119
QUALITY OF LIFE
Each community has its own identity and they protect this  through urban design that  has developed over
time.  The types of development allowed by th e community adds to this overall image.  The urban
design  and image are the outward appearance of what defines Cache County.  The Qual ity of Life
committee looked at the issues that affect development of the County and its quality of life.
GOAL  1: Maintain and protect open spaces and environmentall y sensitive areas of Cache County
Objectives:
C Limit urbanization in canyons and agricultural areas
C Encourage environmentally sound infrastructure development
Strategies:
1.1 Design  ordinances to emphasize open space and aesthetic designs and de nsities which do not
conflict  with surrounding environment, to include impact fees, zoning, subdivision  and overlay
ordinances
1.2 Identify environmentally sensitive areas of the county
GOAL 2: Develop recreational areas in harmony with open space and canyon environments
Objectives:
C Maintain  public access and acquire right of way to such places with minim um harm to the
environment
C Encouragement  of activities which emphasize  a safe, quiet and peaceful community appreciation
of such areas
Strategies:
2.1 Acquire right of way and develop trails for non-motorized uses throughout the county
2.2 Use restaurant tax to expand regional recreation facilities outside incorporated areas
2.3 Work with state to develop access and use lands for public access and recreation
GOAL 3: Improvement of current air quality levels
Objectives:
C Exceed Wasatch Front standards for air quality attainment levels
C Air environment in Cache County is more fragile than Wasatch Front’s
C According  to the Utah Air Quality Board Hearing  Officer, Lynn  Menlove, with whom Jane spoke
on 2/8/96, the air quality standard for all  Utah areas outside the Wasatch Front can be  designated
to not exceed 25% of non-attainment levels for the Front.  At this time Logan is at  52% according
to monitor
Strategies:
3.1 Include odor problems as part of air quality standards
3.2 Encourage non-polluting businesses to locate in Cache Valley
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 120
3.3 Develop no-burn day standards, including use of exclusionary rule
3.4 Develop vehicle emission standards and testing - use voluntary incentive programs
3.5 Ask for state air-monitoring equipment
3.6 Develop property tax incentives to encourage non-polluting improvements
3.7 Get USU to clean up its smokestack
3.8 Encourage scrub standards in all commercial smokestacks
GOAL 4: Enforcement of State and County Codes
Objectives:
C Provide a clear, concise Land Use Ordinance
C Enforce consistently the Land Use Ordinance
C Create an environment to encourage public input
C Train/certify staff, Planning Commission and Board of Adjustments
C Balance public/private rights
C Protect sensitive areas: historical canyons, flood plains
C Create feeling of community
Strategies:
4.1 Write a brief, clear, concise Land Use Ordinance
4.2 Review staff resources available to implement/enforce Land Use Ordinance
4.3 Educate the public to their responsibility and importance of their input
4.4 Zoning  staff, Planning Commissio ners, Boa rd of Adjustments needs to be educated in
importance of public input
4.5 Hold Planning and Zoning meetings at night to allow more public input
4.6 Establish  training/education  requirements for Zoning Administrator, Planning Commission and
Board of Adjustments to be completed prior to appointment or hiring
4.7 Create Community Councils
4.8 Identify importance of land use issues to judicial system
4.9 Put the following  statement directly in the  Land Use Ordinance: “This historical de-facto policy
of ‘ask for forgiveness instead  of permission’ is officially noted in this ordinance  and one of the
clear purposes of this ordinance to affirmatively state that it is not acceptable”
4.10 Require  incorporated areas to  respond to mandatory  forms of inquiry for development within
½ mile of border
4.11 Require  notification of land owners within  600 feet of request of development  or conditional
use
4.12 Enforcement of codes upon complaint
GOAL  5: Public safety  should provide for the preservation of peace and  the protection of life and
property for all citizens
Objectives:
C Provide  law enforcement, fire ambulance, and animal control coverage equally  throughout the
county
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 121
Strategies :
5.1 Identify personnel and funding requirements for 24 hour coverage
5.2 Review existing contracts with the incorporated areas for conflict of coverage f or unincorporate d
area
5.3 Institute more neighborhood watch programs and clinics
5.4 Establish Public Safety base at each end of the valley
5.5 Train more EMT personnel
5.6 Advertise for contracted commission salaried animal control officers
5.7 Write stricter enforcement codes including increased fees and penalties for stray animals
5.8 Review quantity of animals per lot size ordinances
5.9 Enforce on complaint
TRANSPORTATION
Future  development will require the necessary transportation infrastructure.  Cache County’s
transportation  network includes state highways, rail road and a variety of arterial and collector roads.
The Transportation Committee discussed the present condition  and future need for within the County.
The need for a detailed Long Range Transportation Plan for the entire County was discussed.
GOAL 1: Develop convenient alternative modes of transportation
Objectives:
C Enhance mobility of citizens
C Provide alternatives in bad weather
C Encourage pedestrian friendly land use development
C Encourage economic development by getting people to their jobs
C Reduce stress
Strategies:
1.1 Develop inter-county bus system
1.2 Provide financial incentives to maximize mass transit
1.3 Develop parkways for pedestrians and other modes of transportation
1.4 Urban development is reviewed by transit developers
1.5 Look at expanding alternative modes throughout the County
1.6 Encourage small business development
1.7 Expand countywide transit system through a countywide referendum
1.8 Involve school districts in alternative modes of transportation
GOAL 2: Control urban sprawl through prudent countywide land use planning
Objectives:
C Develop travel demand management specifications
C Encourage  higher density dev elopm ent in residential, commercial, and industrial areas while
providing for safety and essential services
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 122
C Reduce/prevent congestion on main roads
C Protect agricultural areas, open spaces, stream corridors and wildlife
C Seek alternative funding sources to maintain the transportation system (i.e., impact fees)
Strategies:
2.1 Establish urban growth boundaries limiting services outside the boundaries (i.e., roads)
2.2 Develop an Access Management Plan limiting access on major roads
2.3 Develop a Development Plan for major roads (i.e. US89-91, 165, 30 etc.)
2.4 Encourage standards along major roads
2.5 Encourage neighborhood commercial development
2.6 Develop mass transit plans, pedestrian rights of ways, etc.
2.7 Develop standard cross-section for all functional classifications of roads
2.8 Develop interblock development policies and  standards encouraging responsible  development
2.9 Encourage development on major roads
2.10 Limit development on private roads
GOAL 3: Safety
Objectives:
C Provide  alt ernative modes of transportation  (bike paths, mass transit, express buses, walking
paths, train-light rail, etc.)
C Reduce single occupancy vehicles (SOV)
C Reduce existing and future accesses to main corridors
C Do better access management on main roads
C Develop countywide development standard
C Develop better traffic light management
C Educate county residents
Strategies:
3.1 Never become a non-attainment area
3.2 Develop standard ordinances for access management
3.3 Reduce the number of stops/stop lights and synchronize lights
3.4 Reduce the number of curb cuts
3.5 Create acceleration and deceleration lanes
3.6 Encourage park and ride
3.7 Encourage the development of a rural transit system
3.8 Develop a marketing plan for a countywide transportation plan
3.9 Encourage express buses
GOAL 4: Develop a countywide transportation plan/system
Objectives:
C Integrate the countywide transportation plan with the CMPO plan
C Develop a marketing, education, and cooperative strategy to implement the plan
C Develop a realistic priority process to match current revenues
C Develop alternative funding mechanisms to build and maintain the system
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 123
C Develop  a transportation system that function s to move people easily, quickly, safely and
economically to their destinations
C Consider multiple forms of transportation (cars, buses, light rail, bicycles, pedestrian, etc.)
C Develop an implementation strategy
C Recognize  the plan as a regional system that is bigger  than the cities and needs to be coordinated
with the cities, county, state, surrounding states and the national system
Strategies:
4.1 Require countywide consistency and build on the CMPO plan
4.2 Involve  all communities in the development and implementation through public input  a nd
cooperation
4.3 Develop measures to evaluate projects for prioritization
4.4 Identify and encourage all levels of government to provide funding and funding mechanisms
4.5 Transportation  is a reciprocal land use and should not drive other land uses, it sho uld be
subservient
4.6 Base local ordinances on the plan
ESSENTIAL SERVICES AND FACILITIES
Essential  services and facilities directly benefit each individual citizen.  The provision of police and fire
protection,  water, and sewer, solid waste management, and flood control contribution to the overall
quality  of community life.  This committee addressed the  problems and possible solutions to the growing
need for quality essential services and facilities and government services.
GOAL 1: SOLID  WASTE MANAGEMENT - Ensure environmentally safe, politically
acceptable,  economical and reliable  methods of solid waste collection and disposal for
Cache County
Objectives:
C Provide for all collection and disposal needs in Cache County
C Develop attainable waste disposal reduction goals
C Develop  countywide Hazardous Waste Program to identify, control disposal of and affect
reduction in hazardous waste
Strategies:
1.1 Update  and keep current Countywide  Solid Waste Management Plan through  the Cache County
Solid Waste Advisory Board.  Twenty to thirty year long term plan needs to be
reviewed/updated every five years
1.2 Enlarge  recycling, composting, conservation programs to affect overall wast e disposal reduction
- Establish recycling alternatives  (private or public)
- Establish rates encouraging conservation and recycling
- Establish educational programs to affect disposal reduction
1.3 Coordinate  hazardous waste programs.  Develop a management plan/strategies for compliance
reduction.  Enforcement programs for illegal dumping
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 124
Land Use:
C Encourage centralized transfer/disposal location
C Encourage urban development in locations where essential services are available
GOAL 2: SEWER  & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT - Ensu re environmentally  safe,
adequate, reliable and  economical method(s) of wastewater collection and treatment
for Cache County
Objectives:
C Provide for collection and treatment needs in Cache County
C Meet all Federal and State wastewater standards and regulations
Strategies:
2.1 Update  and keep current a Countywide Wastewater Managem ent Pl an, including a twenty to
thirty year long term plan to be reviewed and updated every five years
2.2 Establish  a Countywide Development Plan that will protect environment and wate r qualit y
through approved collection/treatment systems
2.3 Establish pretreatment programs to protect capacity/viability of collection/treatment systems
Land Use:
C Encourage centralization/regional wastewater treatment systems
C Require  residential/industrial growth to be on adequate wastewater collection and treatment
system(s)
GOAL  3 : ELECTRIC  UTILITIES - Ensure a reliable, safe, adequate and economical  supply and
use of electric power  to meet the current and future needs of all users in Cache County
Objectives:
C Provide for 100% of the current needs and 100% of the projected needs of the County
C Ensure compliance with adopted safety standards for all new construction
C Achieve a public that is wise in the safe use of electricity
C Reduce electrical safety risks within the County
C Identify and preserve existing critical power line easements and right-of-ways
C Provide  necessary easements and right-of-ways for future electrical distribution  and transmission
lines to meet growing needs of the County
C Ensure  electrical line locations and service are  addre ssed when planning for any new road,
(commercial, industrial, residential) development or public improvement
Strategies:
3.1 Educate  the public in safe and efficient use of electricity through a County planning  function and
utility companies
3.2 Encourage,  through  a C ounty planning function, the cooperation of cities and industries in
planning  with representative utilities for future growth and development.   County  Land Use
Master Plan to include utility master plan overlay
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 125
3.3 Encourage,  through a County planning function and utilit y companies, public input on reliability
needs and current conditions
3.4 Require all construction to meet applicable electrical codes
Land Use:
C Require  all new developments to address and plan for electric utility  easements and right  of ways
through building permit process
C Require  all road maintenance and new roa d construction to address and provide for electric
distribution and transmission facility location
C Require  adequate clearances and distance from existing ele ctrical distribution and transmission
facilities to preserve utility easements and corridors
GOAL  4: NATURAL  GAS UTILITIES - Maintain a reliable, safe and economica lly viable supply
of natural gas to Cache County
Objectives:
C Provide  as much quality service to the outlying residents of the County as is economically feasible
C Continue to provide quality service to the existing customers of the County
C Continue an active role in the development of the County’s Master Plan
C Operate a safe and reliable distribution system
C Educate the contractors and home owners in utilizing the Blue Stake program
C Preserve existing right of ways
C Maintain  a proactive approach with all entities as it relates to new subdivisions  or expansion of
the existing distribution system
C Coordinate with other utilities the installation of facilities
Strategies:
4.1 Educate the public in safe and efficient use of natural gas
4.2 Encourage  the cooperation between the devel opers of residential and commercial properties,
homeowners and the utility as to the development of the lands within the County
4.3 Encoura ge, through a County planning function, the public input to respective utilities on
reliability needs and current conditions
4.4 Ensure that all new and existing construction projects meet applicable building codes
4.5 Hold annual meetings to educate local contractors about locating lines prior to excavating
4.6 Continue  to inform businesses and  homeowners about locating lines prior to excavating through
mail inserts and advertising
4.7 Comply with pipeline safety guidelines when installing, inspecting, and maintaining 
distribution lines
Land Use:
C Conform to local ordinances in restoration of public/private right-of-ways
C Insure that public safety is adhered to by properly installing distribution lines
GOAL 5: TELECOMMUNI CATIONS  - Ensure modern, reliab le and  economica l
telecommunication services that will meet the needs of Cache County users
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 126
Objectives:
C Develop  and maintain a telecommunication system that is adequate to meet the  needs  of Cache
County
Strategies:
5.1 Encourage,  through a County planning function, the coopera tion  of cities and industries in
planning  with represent ative ut ilities for future growth and development.  County Land Use
Master Plan to include Utility Master Plan overlay
5.2 Encourage,  through a County planning function and telecommunication companies, public input
on future needs and current conditions
Land Use:
C Require  all new developments to address and  plan for telecommunication easements and  right-of-
ways through building permit process
C Require  all road maintenance and new road construction to addr ess and provide for
telecommunication facility location
GOAL 6: EMERG ENCIES/PREPAREDNESS  - Ensure that  Cache County has a  curren t
emergency  operation plan for d isaster preparedness for all essential services and
ensure adequate and safe response to all disaster emergencies
Objectives:
C Prepare the public to meet major disasters
C Maintain  a trained organization that can coordinate a multi-agency emergency response to  major
disasters
Strategies:
6.1 Support  the Cache Emergency  Operation Center and encourage regular mock disaster drills for
countywide operations and readiness
6.2 Ensure that emergency preparedness plans are updated and current
6.3 Educate public on proper responses to emergencies
6.4 Train and equip personnel for adequate response to an emergency situation
6.5 Ensure  cooperative agreements between city, county and state government agencies for
overlapping jurisdictional situations
6.6 Ensure  cooperative agreements between the County and private bus inesses engaged in providing
essential services
Land Use :
C Urban development needs to address the ability for adequate emergency provider response
GOAL  7: PUBLIC SAFETY - Public  safety should provide for the  preservation of peace and  the
protection of life and property for all citizens
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 127
Objectives:
C Provide better, more visible and faster responding Sheriff protection
C Provide more traffic control coverage throughout the County
C Decrease response times to accidents to less than the state/national average
C Decrease response times to routine calls to less than the state/national average
C Provide faster fire protection response times and better fire fighting capability
C Provide faster ambulance response times
C Provide better and faster response to animal control in the unincorporated areas
Strategies:
7.1 Increase  deputy-to-population ratio  to exceed the state/national average with Level 1 certified
officers
7.2 Provide on-duty patrol coverage twenty-four hours a day
7.3 Build satellite facilities in the north and south ends of the Valley for public safety
7.4 Increase the contract price to incorporated areas for police services
7.5 Write a comprehensive animal control code  (large and small animals)
7.6 Hire trained/qualified Animal Control Officer (equal to Logan City) on commission basis
7.7 Enforce violations of codes/law on complaint
7.8 Encourage Neighborhood Watch Programs
Land Use:
C Urban development needs to address the ability for adequate public safety response
GOAL  8: WATER SUPPLY -  Ensure a continued safe, high quality,   least cost, water supply  for
municipal/residential, industrial and agricultural uses
Objectives:
C Provide  planning for the long term municipal and industrial (M&I) water needs for Cache County
C Protect agricultural and other water rights for Cache County
C Develop a Water Management Plan
Strategies:
8.1 Support  Cache County Water Policy Advisory  Board objectives  in developing planning data for
water demands and supply, current and future
- Define the County interest and role in water management matters
- Identify and weigh major water issues and problems have countywide importance
- Maintain  liaison with com plex of  institutions having water management responsibilities in
Cache County and assess their effectiveness in meeting issues identified in the above
- Develop municipal demand/supply computer  modeling which will  extend existing model from
four Wasatch Front counties to Cache County by January 1997
8.2 Support  objective studies  with possible impacts on decision making that can allow protection
of water quality, optimal development of ground water and protection of local water rights
8.3 Educate  water managers and u sers (including the public) in safe and efficient use and
conservation of supplies
8.4 Facilitate water marketing and transfer of water rights on a willing seller/willing buyer basis
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 128
Land Use:
C Encourage  residential development to hook  up to municipal water systems when physically and
economically feasible
GOAL 9: STORM DRAINAGE - Minimize the threat from flooding to life and property
Objectives:
C Protect public and private property by encouraging the development of a storm water 
management plan
Strategies:
9.1 Review  the adequacy  of Cache County Ordinance 89-06, an ordinance relating to  Flood Plain
Management  and Amending Ordinance 85-02,  and superseding the Sensitive  Area Ordinance
in part
9.2 Examine  Title 17 of the Utah Code as pertains to the County role in dea ling with f looding
problems in light of the rapid development on flood plains in Cache County
9.3 Gather  input from irrigation canal  companies  on impact and legal ramifications of using canals
to dispose of flood waters
9.4 Encourage  the application of science and technology as it applies to  awareness of and mitigation
of natural geologic hazard and threat
Land Use:
C Identify  areas of water related g eologic h azards including but not limited to mud flows, debris
flows, areas susceptible to liquefacti on and t he consequences of earthquake caused failures of
irrigation canals, water mains, sewage systems, etc.
GOAL  10: WATER QUALITY - Ensure a  reliable, adequate, affordable and safe water  supply
of sufficient quality to meet human, animal and agricultural standards and needs
Objectives:
C Support Bear River Quality Management Plan objectives
C Monitor  status of EPA funded and  DEQ monitored shallow ground water  study ongoing in Cache
County
C Provide  a safe and adequate supply of  municipal water for the increasing human population  of the
County
C Main tain and improve the agricultural base of the County by judicious application of r ealisti c
water quality standards for agricultural use and disposal of water resources
C Maintain  the water related recreational qualities of the County by  setting water quality  standards
suited to recreational uses
Strategies:
10.1 Develop  suitable watershed management practices to ensure  high quality water at its source
10.2 Identify  groundwater recharge areas and management programs for those areas to maintai n
high quality groundwater supplies
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 129
10.3 Identify and categorize the various water uses in the County
10.4 Develop water quality standards suitable for each category of water use
10.5 Adopt water quality testing and monitoring programs adapted to local conditions and local
uses
10.6 Limit  regulations’ mandating testing  and monitoring  programs to the minimum required for
particular water uses
10.7 Work with communities to develop source protection plans fo r springs and other culinary
water sources
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 130
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 131 
LAND USE ELEMENT - APPENDIX
PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT
WETLAND SYSTEMS
Riverine  System: contains all wetlands and deep water habitats contained within a channel.  A channel
is “an ope n conduit either naturally or artificially created which periodically or continuously
contains  moving water or which form as a connecting link between  two bodies of standing water”
(Langbein  and Iseri 1960:5).  As Riverine systems  are bounded on the landward side by upland, by
channel  banks ( including natural and man-made levees) or by wetland dominated by trees, shrubs,
persistent emergents, emergent mosses, or lichens.
Lacustrine  System: includes wetlands and deep water habitats with all of the following characteristices:
(1) situated in a topographic depression or a dammed river channel; (2) lacking trees, s hrubs ,
persistent  emergents, emergent mosses or lichens with greater than 30 % are al coverage; and (3)
total area exceeds 20 acreas.  A Lacus trine system includes permanently flooded lakes and
reserviors, and  intermittent playa lakes.
Palustrine  System:  includes all nontidal wetlands d ominated  by trees, shrubs, persistent emergents,
emergent mosses or lichens.  It also includes wetlands  lacking  such vegetation, but with all of the
following  three characteristics: (1) area less than 20 acre s; (2)  active wave forming or bedrock
shoreline  features lacking; (3) water depth in the deepest part of basin less than 2 meters at l ow
water.  Palustrine systems include all vegetated swamp, bog, fen, and prairie, which are foun d
throuhgout  the United States .  It a lso includes the small shallow, permanent or intermittent water
bodies often called ponds
Upland:  are any area that does not qualify as a wetland because associated hydro logic regime is not
sufficient ly wet to elicit development of vegetation, soils, and/or hydrologic characteristics
associated with wetlands.
HEALTH EFFECTS OF AIR POLLUTANTS
1Carbon  Monoxide:  Impairs the ability of blood to carry oxygen in the body.  The cardiovascular system
is primarily affected, causing angina pain in persons  suffering from cardiac  disease and leg pain in
individuals with occlusive arterial disease.  It affects other mammals in a similar manner.
Lead: Damages the  cardiovascular, renal and nervous  system, resulting in anemia, brain damage, and
kidney  disease.  Preschool  age children are particularly susceptible to brain damage effects.  Similar
effects  are observed  in ot her mammals.  There are additional adverse effects on animals,
microorganisms and plants.
Ozone:  Damages the respiratory system, reducing breathing capacity and causing pain, headaches, nasal
congestion  and sore throat.  Individuals with chronic respiratory diseases are especially susceptible
to ozone.  Injures some plants, trees and materials.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 132 
Particulates:  Causes irritation and damage to the respirato ry system, resulting in difficult breathing,
inducement  of bronchitis and aggravation  of existing respiratory  disease.  Also, certain polycyclic
aromatic  hydrocarbons in particulate matter are carcinogenic.  Indiv iduals with respiratory and
cardiovascular  diseases, children  and elderly persons are at the greatest risk.  Also soils and damages
materials and impairs visibility.
Sulfur  Dioxide:  Aggravates asthma, resulting in sneezing, shortness of  breath and coughing.  Healthy
persons  exhibit the same response at higher  concentrations.  Asthmatic and atopic individuals are
the most sensitive groups, followed  by those suffering from bronchitis, emphysema, bronchiectasis,
cardiovascular  disease, the elderly and child ren.  Damages some plants and materials.  Impairs
visibility and contributes to acid deposition due to its conversion to sulfate particles.
RESIDENTIAL
CACHE COUNTY LOW AND MODERATE INCOME LEVELS BY FAMILY SIZE($)
Persons 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
Inc ome
  Very Low
  Low
14,000
22,400
16,000
25,600
18,000
28,800
20,000
32,000
21,600
34,550
23,200
37,100
24,800
39,700
26,400
42,250
28,000
44,800
29,600
47,700
Source: Department of Community & Economic Development, State of Utah
RESIDENTIAL DENSITY-BASED ZONING
The current Cache County Land Use Ordinance employs  a traditional block style zoning.  This  tyle of
zoning  was developed and designed by communities to segregate incompatible uses (dry cleaners from
residential  units - San Francisco) and has been used for years throughout  t his country .  Block style
zoning lays out painfully precise requirements for uses and  quality of development.   However,  when
this style of zoning is applied to a regional system lik e Cache  County, with its unique and different
environs,  it fails to meet the needs of the County.  A more flexible  style of zoning is needed to deal with
the complex and unique issues of this region.  
Due to the uniqueness of the different areas within the County and the importance of agriculture, the
standards  should be based on their importance and the physical effect they have on the  development
potential of the property.  
These  development factors were derived from the current Numerical Evaluation Point System used by
the Cache County Planning Commission for evaluating  single family dwellings and minor  subdivisions.
The development factors were digitized into a Geographic Information  System (ArcInfo) so that  data
could be combined and a  suitability analysis preformed.  The use of a Geographic Information System
allowed this analysis process  of the data to be quickly developed.   Utah State Automated Geographic
Reference  Center and the Cache Countywide Planning & Development office worked toegther to
develop  this analysis.  The table of development f actors on  the following pages details the urban and
physical factors and suitability values used in defining residential density.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 133 
The data sets were  assigned a point value based upon the suitability  for residential development.  The
higher  the point value the less desirable or suitable for residential development.  For example, if an area
is in a 1 00 year flood pla n from FEMA maps, it would be assigned a very high point value.  The
suitability  values are shown to the right of the development factors in the previous tables.  Once the data
was assigned point values it was combined into a set of five density ranges.  The  following  table shows
the Proposed  Residential Density ranges developed based on the public input from the second  round of
Public Open Houses.  
RESIDENTIAL DENSITY RANGES
Density Units per Acre
Very High 1/1
High 1/5
Medium 1/10
Low 1/20
Very Low 1/40
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 134 
DEVELOPMENT FACTORS
URBAN FACTORS SUITABILITY PHYSICAL FACT ORS SUITABILITY
Water Syste ms
- Public Water System
- No Public Water System
Sewe r Syste ms
- Discharge Area
- Secondary Recharge Area
- Primary Recharge Area
Distance From E xisting Municipality
- Within ¼  mile
- Within ¼  to ½ mile
- Within ½  to 1 mile
- Beyon d 1 mile
Distance to Fi re Station
- Less than 2 miles
- 2 to 4 miles
- 4 to 6 miles
- More than 6 miles
Proximity to Nearest 1 st Priority Road
- Les than  ¼ mile
- ¼ to ½ m ile
- ½ to 1 m ile
- More than 1 m ile
Distance to School Bus Ro ute
- Les than  ½ mile
- ½ to 1 m ile
- More than 1 m ile
1
5
1
3
5
1
2
3
5
1
2
3
5
1
2
3
5
1
3
5
100 Y ear Flood Plain
- Non-F lood Plain
- Flood P lain
Liquefaction Zones
Low to  Moderate
Moderate
Moderate to High
Slope
- Less than 10%
- 10 to 20%
- 20 to 30%
- More than 30%
Wetlands
- Non- Wetlands
- Wetlands
Water
- Non-Water
- Water
Critical Wildlife Habitats
- Non-Wildlife Habitat
- Wildlife Habitat
Farmland
- Non Prime or Statewide Signi ficant
- Statewi de Signifi cant (ir rigated)
- Statewi de Signifi cant (nonir rigated)
- Pr ime
1
5
1
3
5
1
2
3
5
1
5
1
5
0
1
1
6
6
10
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 135 
COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL
 
SIC CODES
Standard Industrial Classification [SIC] is the statistical classification standard underlying all
establishment-based Federal economic statistics classified by industry.  The SIC is used to promote
the comparability of establishment data describing various facets of the U.S. economy.  The
classification covers the entire field of economic activities and defines industries according to the
composition and structure of the economy.  It is revised periodically to reflect the economy's
changing industrial organization.
The Standard Industrial Classification Codes are broken down into different categories.  Below is a
list of each division and corresponding codes.
Division A. AGRICULTURE, FORESTRY, AND FISHING
01 - 06 This division includes establishments primarily engaged in agricultural production,
forestry, commercial fishing, hunting and trapping, and related services.
Division B. MINING
10 - 14 This division includes all establishments primarily engaged in mining.  The term mining
is used in the broad sense to include the extraction of minerals occurring naturally;
solids, such as coal and ores; liquids, such as crude petroleum; and gases such as natural
gas.  The term mining is also used in the broad sense to include quarrying, well
operations, milling (e.g., crushing, screening, washing, flotation), and other preparation
customarily done at the mine site, or as a part of mining activity.
Division C. CONSTRUCTION
15 - 17 This division includes businesses primarily engaged in construction.  Three broad types
of construction activity  are covered: (1) building construction by general contractors or
by operative builders; (2) heavy construction other than building by general contractors
and special trade contractors, and (3) construction activity by other special trade
contractors.
Division D. MANUFACTURING
20 - 39 The manufacturing division includes establishments engaged in the mechanical or
chemical transformation of materials or substances into new products.  These businesses
are usually described as plants, factories, or mills and characteristically use power driven
machines and materials handling equipment.  Establishments engaged in assembling
component parts of manufactured products are also considered manufacturing if the new
product is neither a structure nor other fixed improvement.  Also included is the blending
of materials, such as lubricating oils, plastic’s resins, or liquids.
Division E. TRANSPORTATION, COMMUNICATIONS, ELECTRIC, GAS,
40 - 49 AND SANITARY SERVICES
This division includes establishments providing, to the public or to other business
enterprises, passenger and freight transportation, communications services, or electricity,
gas, steam, water or sanitary services, and all establishments of the United States Postal
Service.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 136 
Division F. WHOLESALE TRADE
50 - 51 The chief function of establishments primarily engaged in selling merchandise to
retailers to industrial, commercial, institutional, farm, construction contractors, or
professional business users, other wholesalers, or acting as agents or brokers in buying
merchandise for or selling merchandise to such persons or companies.
Division G. RETAIL TRADE
52 - 59 This division includes establishments engaged in selling merchandise for personal or
household consumption and rendering services incidental to the sale of the goods.  In
general, they classify retail establishments by kind of business according to the principal
lines of commodities sold (groceries, hardware, etc.), or the usual trade designation (
drug store, cigar store, etc.).
Division H. FINANCE, INSURANCE, AND REAL ESTATE
60 - 67 This  division includes establishments operating primarily in the fields of finance,
insurance, and real estate. Finance includes depository institutions, nondepository credit
institutions, holding (but not predominantly operating) companies, other investment
companies, brokers and dealers in securities and commodity contracts, and security and
commodity exchanges.  Insurance covers all types of insurance, and insurance agents and
brokers.  Real estate includes owners, lessors, lessees, buyers, sellers, agents, and
developers of real estate.
Division I. SERVICES
70 - 89 This division includes establishments primarily engaged in providing services to a wide
variety of individuals, business and government establishments, and other organizations. 
Hotels and lodging places: establishments providing personnel, business, repair, and
amusement services; health, legal, engineering, and other professional services;
educational institutions; membership organizations, and other miscellaneous services, are
included.
Division J. PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
91 - 97 This division includes the executive, legislative, judicial, administrative and regulatory
activities of Federal, State, local and international governments.
Division K. NONCLASSIFIABLE ESTABLISHMENTS
99 This division includes establishments which cannot be classified in any other industry.
GOALS AND POLICIES
The following information is the public comments from the first series of open house that were held
to introduce the plan.
RESIDENTIAL HOUSING DEVELOPMENT
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 137 
DISTRICT 1
C Understand the fiscal cost of residential development on the services to the community
C Development in the area directly adjacent to communities should be of equal standards as the
communities
C There needs to be unified development standards between County and communities
C There should be standards for differing size subdivisions
C There is a need to provide for affordable housing
DISTRICT 2
C Water will continue to be a limiting factor for residential development in this district
C There needs to be better control of the subdivision of land
C How do small communities deal with multifamily homes in their community
DISTRICT 3
C Residential development should not be on prime agricultural land
C As density of the area increases the issue of  waste water needs to be addressed
C The minimum lot should not be less than one acre in area.
C There should be stricter control on residential development than there is now
C There should be no subdivision of more than two lots in area
C They should maintain the existing status quo for the district
DISTRICT 4
C Residential development should be on land that is not agriculturally productive
C Residential development should provide open space
C Sensitive area should be protected (open space, land trusts)
C There should be some consistency between City and County development standards
C The communities should provide for affordable housing
C New residential developments should pay their fair share of the cost of services
C Residential development should be done in a way as to not create urban sprawl
C Residential development on the bench should provide access to the mountains
C Urban residential development should remain within the communities
C There is a need to protect the historical residential homes within the district
C They should develop standards for all types of residential development
C The residential development should try to maintain a rural atmosphere
C There should be a balance of public and private property rights
C Residential development should provide all the services and amenities
C Residential development should provide variation in lot size
C All major subdivision development should remain within the cities who provide urban services
C There should be limited development on private roads
C There should be consistency with siting of residential, school, open space, and commercial
C Better public input into the approval process for project, ordinances, and procedures
DISTRICT 5
C Any building should be on existing small parcels and limited
C Application for development should require notification of adjacent property owners
C There should be no major subdivision within the district
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 138 
DISTRICT 6
C Give controlled planned development open space
C Lot sizes in the area should be larger (5 to 10 acres)
C The smaller lot development should be in the existing communities
C Major subdivisions should be located in the existing communities 
C Developers need to address the storm drainage with development
C Developers should consider cluster development
DISTRICT 7
C There should be tighter control of residential development
C Lot size should be at least 5 to 10 acres
C Residential development should not be on prime agricultural land
C No major subdivisions in the unincorporated County
C They should better review the issues of services for residential areas
C Urban development should remain within the existing communities
C Development should be done on existing public roads
DISTRICT  8
C Residential development in the Stump Hallow area should be limited due to waste disposal
problems
C There is currently too much development in the canyons and should be limited
C Future development will create pollution problems downstream
C Any future development should be based on performance standards
C There should be better enforcement of current development codes
C There needs to be development rights provided to private landowners
C The FR40 zone needs to be evaluated to see if it is meeting the needs of the area
COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT  1
C Commercial/industrial development should be in proper location in the existing communities
C They should allow some small service type businesses in the unincorporated County to provide
for the needs of  residents
DISTRICT  2
C Commercial/industrial development should be in proper approved location in the existing
communities
C There is a need for service/commercial type businesses in existing communities for the residents
of the area and district
C Communities should provide for home based businesses with restrictions so as not to impact
neighbors
DISTRICT  3
C Commercial/industrial development should be in proper location in the existing communities
C There should better enforcement laws with businesses that operate in the County
C They should cite and make junky yards be cleaned up
DISTRICT  4
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 139 
C Large commercial development should be in appropriate location so as not to create strip
development
C Better sign control needs to be developed to prevent visual clutter
C There should be better access management along Hgwy.. 89/91 for commercial development
C Prevent leap frog development by limiting development to existing urban areas that are zoned
for commercial
C There needs to be better separation between residential and commercial/industrial uses to
prevent land use conflicts
C Economic Development should:
-  Protect and enhance existing businesses;
-  Increase the job opportunities and wages
C There should be fewer regional shopping centers and more neighborhood oriented commercial
businesses.
DISTRICT  5
C Commercial/industrial development should be limited to urban areas
C Restrict the amount of commercial/industrial development along Hgwy. 89/91
C Provide for home based businesses with restrictions
DISTRICT  6
C Restrict commercial/industrial development to urban areas
C Do not allow for infringement of commercial/industrial development on agricultural and
residential areas
DISTRICT 7
C Major commercial/industrial development should be located in the existing urban areas
C There is a need for small service type commercial businesses in some areas of the County
C Allow for some home based businesses but with restrictions to protect surrounding uses
C Stop leap frog and strip development along the highways
C Limit the regulation of business and simplify process for business licenses
DISTRICT 8
C Limit and restrict the types of commercial/industrial businesses within the canyons
C Develop performance standards for development in canyons
C Treat each canyon as unique and different by developing overlay zones
ESSENTIAL FACILITIES AND SERVICES
DISTRICT  1
Public Safety
C Development should be done to provide for good access by police and fire
Water
C Cove should consider a water improvement district
Sewer/Septic
C Any development in water recharge areas should be limited to non-septic systems
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 140 
DISTRICT  2
Public Safety
C There are limited services currently do not meet the needs of the communities
C The travel distance for law enforcement to the communities is a problem
Water
C Water is a real limiting factor for this area
C The quality and quantity are real issues
C There is a need to improve the water delivery systems
Sewer/Septic
C There will be a need to develop  sewer systems in the communities in the district in the future
Other
C There are air quality problems during the winter months
C There is a lack of education facilities in this district, they must bus students long distances
DISTRICT  3
Public Safety
C Better traffic control and speeding are problems in the district
C Need for local access to fire station/truck (comes from Smithfield)
Water
C The water improvement district currently provides water
C There is 20 year planning in system which limits the number of hookups to five a year
C A balance needs to be found with the conflict between irrigation and domestic uses of water
Sewer/Septic
C There are limits on septic systems depending on the ground water conditions
Other
C The need for access to a library (bookmobile is used but not adequate for need)
C There is a lack of storm drainage system (irrigation canals are carrying away storm drainage)
C There is a need to balance the local and recreationalist use of the area
DISTRICT  4
Public Safety
C There needs to be better late night protection for south end of district
C Hazard issues need to be addressed
- Location of fire hydrants
- Road width for fire trucks
C There is double taxation for contract police services
Water
C There is a need for a water management plan for the County and should address the following
issues
- Protection for the water recharge areas
- Water availability (carrying capacity developed)
- Secondary water system development
- Impact fees for services
Sewer/Septic
C They should develop sewer system in the southern part of the district
C What is the current capacity of the existing sewer system and will it meet the needs of the
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 141 
communities
Other
C What is the future of the landfill and where will a new one be located in the County
C There is a need for more parks and recreational opportunities
C The level of services available should control growth
C How are we handling the flood control problem with this growth
C There needs to be coordination of land use planning and utility planning
DISTRICT  5
Public Safety
C There is no police coverage late at night or early in the morning
C Closest fire service comes from Logan City
C Homes are located too far from hydrants
Water
C There is a need to protect the ground water from contamination and interference
C The need for water conservancy and central water system
Sewer/Septic
C There should be limitation on lot size using septic tank s ystems
C High water tables in the district causes problems for septic tanks
C There will be a need for a sewer system in the future 
Other
C Development should be sited so not to cause critical problem for storm drainage
C There should be access to a library system
C Citizens are paying taxes but not receiving the same level of service as other areas
C Problems with the Post Office delivery and Zip codes for the area
C There should be more emphasis on recycling to increase lifespan of landfill
DISTRICT  6
Public Safety
C There needs to be better enforcement of traffic codes on local roads
Water
C They should study the effect of development on the availability of water
C They should protect sensitive water recharge areas from development
C A water management plan for the area should be developed to balance the water needs of the
communities
Sewer/Septic
C The size of lots will restrict the use of septic tanks
C There needs to be controls on sewer management so not to pollute the Little Bear River and
wells in area
DISTRICT  7
Public Safety
C There is no police coverage from the Sheriff after 2 am
C There are problems of response times for traffic accidents
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 142 
C Fire protection in area comes from Paradise or Hyrum City
C Ambulance/first responders take too long time to respond to area
C There is a real need for better animal control in the area
Water
C There are problems with the number of individuals wells
C Growth should be limited to the urban areas that provide water
C There should be no subdivision on central wells
Other
C There is a need for access to some type of library system
C There is a need for natural gas service to the Avon area
C The growth potential for the district should make providing services feasible
DISTRICT  8
Public Safety
C Building codes should restrict any commercial development for fire protection
C Private development should carry sufficient liability insurance
C There is a need for better police protection in the area
Water /Sewer/Septic
C Water and sewer should be provided by property owners through creation of SID
C Health standards should restrict the amount of development
C Any septic tank should have protection so as not to create pollution downstream (Franklin Basin)
Other
C Private landowners should provide solid waste collection
C All utility lines should be underground
C As Logan Canyon road is improved they should make improved provision to plan for future
utilities in area
AGRICULTURAL
DISTRICT  1
C They should protect the agricultural uses within the County
C The loss of agricultural land should be limited by preventing urban sprawl
C There should be an effort to develop new markets for agriculture (economic development)
DISTRICT  2
C The prime agricultural land needs to be protected form urban development
C Any urban development should be encouraged within existing communities or areas directly
adjacent to them
C Work to limit restriction on farmers by Federal standards and regulations
DISTRICT  3
C The agricultural uses need to be protected and maintained within the County
C Limit amounts of urbanization within the agricultural areas
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 143 
C Provide flexible zoning standards that adjust over time within agricultural areas
C Limit the restriction on farmers by Federal standards and regulations
DISTRICT  4
C Agricultural uses in the Smithfield and Hyde Park areas need to be preserved
C There is a need to protect and maintain the agricultural uses within the County as open space
C The conflicts between agricultural uses and urban development (noise, smell, hazards) need to be
dealt with
C There needs to be a buffer zone between communities
C The communities need to deal with the urban sprawl issues by developing ordinances
C Inner lot development needs to be encouraged instead of urban sprawl
C There needs to be incentives to protect open space and agricultural uses in the district
C They should identify and protect prime farm land
C Consider creating agricultural land trusts to preserve farmland
C Divert development from primary agricultural land to marginal or non-agricultural land
C Encourage urban development in the existing incorporated areas
C There is a need to provide incentives for farmers to keep their land in agricultural uses
DISTRICT  5
C Protect and maintain the agricultural uses within the County
C Provide in the County Land Use Ordinance to protect remaining agricultural areas
C Limit development in agricultural areas to only health and safety issues
C Provide tax to develop funds to pay for farmers’ development rights
DISTRICT  6
C Prevent the continued loss of agricultural land uses
C There needs to be better enforcement of the County codes to prevent junk storage areas
C There should be better enforcement of the County and City Codes
C Limit development to the communities and do not allow a leap frog into agricultural areas
C There should be initiatives to provide for protection of agricultural land uses
DISTRICT  7
C There is a need to preserve the agricultural land in the County
C Land not suited for agricultural uses should be developed for residential and other uses
C Current interpretation of agricultural land is too vague and loose and needs to be clarified
DISTRICT  8
C No Issues
QUALITY OF LIFE
DISTRICT  1
C The air and water quality needs to be protected before there are problems
C County needs to do a better job of planning throughout the unincorporated areas
C Development should be encouraged within or areas directly adjacent to existing communities
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 144 
DISTRICT  2
C The large areas of agriculture and open space in this district needs to be protected
C The lack of a good water source limits the communities within this district
C The current feeling of community needs to be protected
C Any urbanization needs to be located within the existing communities
DISTRICT  3
C The openness and lifestyle of the district needs to be maintained and protected
C The area should not become the recreational area for people from other areas of the county
C The district should not be a dumping area (pets, litter, and garbage)
C The residents should have better access to services (recreational, library)
DISTRICT  4
C There needs to be a balance between public and private property rights
C Historical sites should be protected and preserved
C Urban sprawl should be prevented
C There should be broader opportunities for public (cultural, recreational)
C There should be coordination of public services between jurisdictions
C There should be better public input to the approval process
C The rural atmosphere of the County needs to be protected
C Recreational opportunities needs to be encouraged
- Recreational corridors
- Parks
- Trails
- Access to mountains protected
- Access to the waterways needs to be protected
C Better enforcement of the existing codes
C Provide more opportunities for all sectors of our society (youth, sr. citizens)
C The air and water quality needs to be protected
DISTRICT  5
C Maintain and protect the existing quality of life within district
C There is a need to prevent the encroachment of cities into the area
C Provide for the safety of the residents of the district
C There should be better public input to the approval process
DISTRICT  6
C Maintain and protect the quiet rural atmosphere and lifestyle of the district
C Limit development to the existing communities
C Provide buffers and access to the mountains
C Control pollution (air, noise, and site) before it becomes a problem
C There should be better public input to the approval process
DISTRICT  7
C Prevent all types of pollution (air, water, and noise) before they become problems
C Protect and maintain the rural atmosphere and lifestyle of the area
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 145 
C Better enforcement of the current County codes
C Balance the conflicts between residential, agricultural, and recreational uses
C Provide better zoning standards within the County
C Provide for more and better input from the local area into the approval process
C Restrict the overall size of development within the County
C All urban development should be local in existing urban communities
DISTRICT  8
C The district should remain a multi-use recreational area
C Urbanization should be limited within canyons
C There should be opportunities for many diverse interests in using the canyons
C All plans for canyons should be consistent (County, Forest Service, and State)
C They should identify and protect all sensitive areas
C Each canyon is unique and should be treated individually
TRANSPORTATION
DISTRICT  1
C There is a need for a County-wide transportation plan
C Current Highway 91 has too much traffic
C The land use conflicts along Highway 91 should be limited
C There should be better access management along Highway 91 to improve safety
C There needs to be an alternative north south highway with limited access
C The east west roads have fewer problems
C Planning for future transportation problems (air quality) needs to be done
C There is a need to provide alternative transportation modes (mass transit, bicycles)
DISTRICT  2
C There is a need for a County-wide transportation plan
C There is a need to provide alternative modes of transportation
C Future impacts of transportation should be considered for each area
DISTRICT  3
C There is a need for a County-wide transportation plan
C There need to develop a County-wide transit system
C Problems of traffic using area as a bypass needs to be considered
C Airport road and 2400 West is becoming a bypass road
C The current roads are too narrow and have no shoulders
C There needs to be better maintenance of road system
C There needs to be limited access on the through roads
DISTRICT  4
C There is a need for a County-wide transportation plan
C There is a need for alternative north south routes, there is too much traffic congestion in the
Logan area 
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 146 
C There should be limited destruction of neighborhoods with development of road systems
C There should be better access management along existing roads
C There needs to be a regional transit system that works for the area
C Alternative modes of transportation need to be considered
C There needs to be better maintenance of existing roads
C The issue of air quality needs to be dealt with before it becomes a problem
DISTRICT  5
C There is a need for a County-wide transportation plan
C There is a need for a bypass road around Logan (10th West)
C Any future bypass road should have limited access with frontage roads
C There needs to be limited development along Highway 89/91
C There needs to be a plan to develop a County-wide mass transit system
C Local roads are too narrow with no shoulders
C Better traffic control on local roads (speeders) is needed
DISTRICT  6
C There is a need for a County-wide transportation plan
C There is a need to provide a safer crossing of Highway 89/91 (Wellsville)
C There are problems of turning at the intersection of Highways 30 and 23
C A park and ride lot should be developed at intersection of Highways 30 and 23
C The Valley View Highway (30) needs to be improved
C There are safety problems along Highway 23 and development should be limited
C The road between Mendon and College and Young Wards needs to be improved
DISTRICT  7
C There is a need for a County-wide transportation plan
C There should be consideration for a County-wide transit system
C The current state road should end in Paradise and not continue into Huntsville
C There are a number of safety problems that they should address such as maintenance, snow
removal, unmarked curves, and bridges
C They should pave the road to Porcupine Reservoir due to the increased recreational use
C There needs to be better signage control to prevent semi-trucks driving into Avon area
C There needs to be better traffic control in the Avon and Paradise area
C The road along Mountain Crest High School needs to be widened
C The local county roads are too narrow and have shoulder problems
C There is a problem of hazardous logging trucks in the Avon area
DISTRICT  8
C There is a need for a County-wide transportation plan
C Limit the number of access points to private roads (access management)
C There should be better development standards along public roads 
C There is a need to protect the 2477 roads in the County
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 149
LAND USE ELEMENT - BIBLIOGRAPHY
PLANNING DISTRICTS AND POPULATION
Bureau  of the Census, 1990 C ensus of Population and Housing SFT3A , U.S. Department of
Commerce, Washington, DC, September 1992.
Demographic  and Economic Analysis , St ate of Utah: Economic & Demographic Projections ,
Governor’s Office of Planning and Budget, Salt Lake City, Utah, 1994.
Wasatch  Front Regional Council, Regional Planning Projections , Techn ical Report Number 29,
Bountiful, Utah, April 1992.
LAND USE
Christensen,  James, Resource Information Manag ement Sy stem (RIMS) , Bear River Resource
Conservation and Development, Logan, Utah, August, 1994
DeChiarra, Joseph  and Koppelman,  Lee, Urban Planning and Design Criteria , (Third Edition) Van
Nostrand Reimhold Company, New York, New York, 1982.
Longhini,  G. and Sutton, M., Land-Use Ratios ,  PAS Memo, American Planning Association,  Chicago,
IL, May 1983.
Planning and Research Associates, Cache County 1990 Master Plan , Logan, Utah, 1970.
So, Frank S. and Getzels, Judith, The Practice of Local Government Planning , (Second Edition),
International City Management Association (ICMA), Washington, D.C., 1988.
Yeates,  Maurice H. and Garner, Barry, The North American  City, Harper and Row, New York, New
York, 1976.
PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT
Planning and Research Associates, Cache County 1990 Master Plan , Logan, Utah, 1970.
United  States Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service, Soil Survey  of Cache Valley
Area, Utah : Parts o f Cache and Box Elder Counties , U.S. Government Printing Office,
Washington, D.C., November 1974.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 150
Department  of Natural Resources, Division of Water Resources, Utah State  Water Plan: Bear River
Basin,  State of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah, 1992.
Bear River Association of Governments, Wetland Values and Protection  Bear River District: Box
Elder, Cache and Rich Counties , Logan, Utah, September 1982.
Duerksen,  C., Elliott, D., Hobbs, N., Johnson, E., Miller, J., Habitat Protection Planning: Where  the
Wild Things Are , APA Planning Advisory Service Report 470/471, Chicago, Il., May 1997
Johnson, Craig W., A Wildlife Conservation Manual For Urbanized Areas in Utah , Utah State
University,  Depart.of Landscape Arc hitecture and Environment Planning, Logan, Utah, January
1993
Utah Division of Water Quality and Division of Water Resources, Bear River Water Quality
Management Plan: Final Draft , Logan, Utah, June 1995.
United  States Fish and Wildlife Service, Classification of Wetl ands and Deepwater Habitats
of the United States , U.S. Department of the Interior, Washington, D.C., December 1979.
Siwek,  Sarah, ISTEA Planner’s Workshop: Conformi ty, Sur face Transportation Policy Project,
Washington, D.C., October 1994.
Department  of Natural Resources,  Hydrology of Cache Valley, Cache County,  Utah, and adjacent
part of Idaho, with emphasis  on simul ation of ground-water flow,  Technical Publication No.
108, State of Utah, 1994.
United  States Geological Survey, Hydrogeology of recharge areas and water  quality of the principal
aquifers  along the Wasatch Front and adjacent areas, Utah,  Water-Resources Investigation s
Report 93-4221, U.S. Department of the Interior, Salt Lake City, Utah, 1994.
Anderson,  L., Keaton, J., Bay, J., Liquefaction Potential Map for the Northern Wasatch Front, Utah
Complete  Technical Report,  Contract Report 94-6, Utah Geological Sur vey, Logan, Utah,
September 1994.
Evans,  James P., Structural Setting of Seismicity in Northern U tah, Contr act Report 91-15, Utah
Geological Survey, Logan, Utah, November 1991.
McCalpin,  James P., Neotectonic Deformation Alon g the E ast Cache Fault Zone, Cache County,
Utah, Special Study 83, Utah Geological Survey, Logan, Utah, 1994.
Hunt, Charles B., The Anomalous T ransverse  Canyons of the Wasatch Front,  Utah Geol. Assoc.
Publication 10, 1982.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 151
AGRICULTURAL
United  Stat es Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service, Soil Survey of Cache Valley
Area, Utah: Parts of Cache and Box Elder C ounties , U.S. Government Printing Office,
Washington, D.C., November 1974.
Southhard,  A.R. and Cox, L.,  Important Farmlands  of Cache County , Research Repot 41, Utah
Agricultural Experiment Station, Logan, Utah, June 1979.
US Census Bureau, 1987 and 1992 Census of Agriculture , US Department of Commerce, Washington,
DC, 1987&1992.
Utah Agricultural  S tatistics Service, 1995 Utah Agriculture Statistics and Annual Report ,Utah
Department of Agriculture, Salt Lake City, 1995.
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT
Bureau  of the Census, 1990 Census of Population and Housin g SFT3A , U.S. Department of
Commerce, Washington, DC, September 1992.
Bear River Association of Government, Box Elder and Cache Counties H ousing Survey, Logan, Utah,
1995.
Bear River Association of Government, Comprehensive Housing Affordability Strategy , Logan ,
Utah, 1993.
COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL
Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget, Standard Industrial
 Classification Manual, 1987 , National Technical Information Service, Springfield, Virginia, 1987.
Cache County, Land Use Ordinance for Cache County , Logan, Utah, 1991.
Demographi c an d Economic Analysis,  State of Utah: Economic & Demographic Projections ,
Governor’s Office of Planning and Budget, Salt Lake City, Utah, 1994.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Land Use Element Page 152
TRANSPORTATION
Surface Transportation Policy Project, Acting in the National Interest: The Transportation
Agenda , 1991.
Federal Highway Administration, Liveable Urban Streets: Managing Auto Traffic in
Neighborhoods , Department of Transportation, Washington, D.C., 1976.
Federal Highway Administration, Design of Urban Streets , Department of Transportation,
Washington, D.C., 1980.
Federal  Highway Administration, Road Surface  Management for Local Governments , Department
of Transportation, Washington, D.C., 1985.
Baerwald, John E., Transportation and Traffic Engineering Handbook , Institute of
Transportation Engineers, Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey, 1976.
Paquette, Randor J., Ashford, Norman, and Wright, Paul H., Transportation Engineering:
Planning and Design , New York, New York, 1972.
Valley Engineering, Inc., Airport Master Plan Study: Logan-Cache Airport , Logan, Utah, 1992.
ESSENTIAL FACILITIES AND SERVICES
Center  For Public Policy and Administration, A Capital Improvement Programming  Handbook For
Small Cities and Other Governmental Units , Salt Lake City, Utah, 1981.
Department  of Community Affairs, Capital Improvements Budgeting: A M anual For Local
Governments in Utah , State of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah, 1975.
Getzels,  Judith and So, Frank S., The Practice of  Local Gove rnment Planning , (Second Edition)
International City Management Association, Washington, D.C., 1988.
Community  and Economic Development  Depart., Bear River District Infrastructure Inventory and
Analysis,  Bear River Association of Governments, Logan, Utah, 1995.
Campo,  Joseph B., Site Suitability Analysis for an Intermountain Solid Waste Facility: A  Study for
Cache County, Utah,  Logan, Utah, 1996.
/77/65/80/32/76/85/45/49
/49/48/49/50/51/52/53/54/77/105/108/101/115
/67/65/67/72/69/32/67/79/85/78/84/89
/80/76/65/78/78/73/78/71/32/68/73/83/84/82/73/67/84/83
/68/105/115/116/114/105/99/116/32/56
/68/105/115/116/114/105/99/116/32/50
/68/105/115/116/114/105/99/116/32/52
/68/105/115/116/114/105/99/116/32/54
/68/105/115/116/114/105/99/116/32/49
/68/105/115/116/114/105/99/116/32/55
/68/105/115/116/105/114/99/116/32/51
/68/105/115/116/105/114/99/116/32/53
/67/111/117/110/116/121/32/66/111/117/110/100/97/114/121
/67/105/116/121/32/66/111/117/110/100/97/114/121
/80/108/97/110/110/105/110/103/32/68/105/115/116/114/105/99/116/115
/67/111/117/110/116/121/32/82/111/97/100/115
/83/116/97/116/101/32/72/105/103/104/119/97/121/115
/67/111/117/110/116/121/32/66/111/117/110/100/97/114/121
/85/114/98/110/97/114/101/97/46/115/104/112
/67/105/116/121/32/66/111/117/110/100/97/114/121
/67/111/117/110/116/121/32/82/111/97/100/115
/83/116/97/116/101/32/72/105/103/104/119/97/121/115
/67/97/110/121/111/110/32/38/32/78/97/116/105/111/110/97/108
/70/111/114/101/115/116
/67/97/110/121/111/110/32/38/32/78/97/116/105/111/110/97/108
/70/111/114/101/115/116
/78/111/110/45/85/114/98/97/110
/85/114/98/97/110
/78/111/110/45/85/114/98/97/110
/67/65/67/72/69/32/67/79/85/78/84/89
/65/82/69/65/83
/49/48/49/50/51/52/53/54/77/105/108/101/115
/77/65/80/32/76/85/45/50
/67/65/67/72/69/32/67/79/85/78/84/89
/76/65/78/68/32/79/87/78/69/82/83/72/73/80
/49 /48 /49 /50 /51 /52 /53 /77/105/108/101/115
/76/97/110/100/32/79/119/110/101/114/115/104/105/112
/70/101/100/101/114/97/108
/80/114/105/118/97/116/101
/83/116/97/116/101
/87/97/116/101/114
/67/105/116/121/32/66/111/117/110/100/97/114/121
/82/105/118/101/114/115/32/97/110/100/32/83/116/114/101/97/109/115
/82/111/97/100/115
/77/65/80/32/32/76/85/45/51
/67/65/67/72/69/32/67/79/85/78/84/89
/70/65/85/76/84/83/32/65/78/68
/76/73/81/85/69/70/65/67/84/73/79/78/32/80/79/84/69/78/84/73/65/76
/49 /48 /49 /50 /51 /77/105/108/101/115
/76/105/113/117/101/102/97/99/116/105/111/110/97/32/80/111/116/101/110/116/105/97/108
/86/101/114/121/32/76/111/119
/76/111/119
/76/111/119/32/116/111/32/77/111/100/101/114/97/116/101
/77/111/100/101/114/97/116/101
/77/111/100/101/114/97/116/101/32/116/111/32/72/105/103/104
/72/105/103/104
/70/97/117/108/116
/67/111/117/110/116/121/32/82/111/97/100/115
/83/116/97/116/101/32/72/105/103/104/119/97/121/115
/77/65/80/32/76/85/45/52
/67/65/67/72/69/32/67/79/85/78/84/89
/87/65/84/69/82/32/66/79/68/73/69/83
/49/48/49/50/51/52/53 /77/105/108/101/115
/67/105/116/121/32/32/66/111/117/110/100/97/114/121
/82/105/118/101/114/115/32/38/32/83/116/114/101/97/109/115
/76/97/107/101/115/32/38/32/82/101/115/101/114/118/105/111/114/115
/83/116/97/116/101/32/82/111/97/100/115
/83/116/97/116/101/32/72/105/103/104/119/97/121/115
/77/65/80/32/76/85/45/53
/67/65/67/72/69/32/67/79/85/78/84/89
/87/69/84/76/65/78/68/83
/49/48/49/50/51 /77/105/108/101/115
/87/101/116/108/97/110/100/32/65/114/101/97/115
/67/105/116/121/32/66/111/117/110/100/97/114/121
/67/111/117/110/116/121/32/82/111/97/100/115
/83/116/97/116/101/32/72/105/103/104/119/97/121/115
/77/65/80/32/76/85/45/54
/67/65/67/72/69/32/67/79/85/78/84/89
/49/48/48/32/89/69/65/82/32/70/76/79/79/68/32/80/76/65/73/78/83
/49 /48 /49 /50 /51 /77/105/108/101/115
/67/105/116/121/32/66/111/117/110/100/97/114/121
/67/111/117/110/116/121/32/82/111/97/100/115
/83/116/97/116/101/32/72/105/103/104/119/97/121/115
/70/108/111/111/100/32/80/108/97/105/110
/77/65/80/32/76/85/45/55
/67/65/67/72/69/32/67/79/85/78/84/89
/73/77/80/79/82/84/65/78/84/32/70/65/82/77/76/65/78/68
/49/48/49/50/51 /77/105/108/101/115
/73/109/112/111/114/116/97/110/116/32/70/97/114/109/108/97/110/100
/80/114/105/109/101/32/70/97/114/109/108/97/110/100
/83/116/97/116/101/119/105/100/101/32/73/109/112/111/114/116/97/110/116/32/70/97/114/109/108/97/110/100/32/45/32/73/114/114/105/103/97/116/101/100
/83/116/97/116/101/119/105/100/101/32/73/109/112/111/114/116/97/110/116/32/70/97/114/109/108/97/110/100/32/32/45/32/78/111/110/32/73/114/114/105/103/97/116/101/100
/67/105/116/121/32/66/111/117/110/100/97/114/121
/67/111/117/110/116/121/32/82/111/97/100/115
/83/116/97/116/101/32/72/105/103/104/119/97/121/115
/77/65/80/32/76/85/45/56
/77/65/80/32/76/85/45/57
/67/105/116/121/32/66/111/117/110/100/97/114/121
/90/79/78/73/78/71
/67/111/117/110/116/121/32/82/111/97/100/115
/83/116/97/116/101/32/72/105/103/104/119/97/121/115
/50 /48 /50 /52 /54 /77/105/108/101/115
/67/65/67/72/69/32/67/79/85/78/84/89
/67/79/77/77/69/82/67/73/65/76/32/38/32/73/78/68/85/83/84/82/73/65/76/32/90/79/78/73/78/71
/67/111/109/109/101/114/99/105/97/108
/73/110/100/117/115/116/114/105/97/108/32
/67/65/67/72/69/32/67/79/85/78/84/89
/71/69/78/69/82/65/76/73/90/69/68/32/77/85/78/73/67/73/80/65/76/32/90/79/78/73/78/71
/49/48/49/50/51 /77/105/108/101/115
/83/116/97/116/101/32/72/105/103/104/119/97/121/115
/67/111/117/110/116/121/32/82/111/97/100/115
/90/79/78/73/78/71
/77/65/80/32/76/85/45/49/48
/65/103/114/105/99/117/108/116/117/114/97/108
/67/111/109/109/101/114/99/105/97/108
/73/110/100/117/115/116/114/105/97/108
/80/117/98/108/105/99
/82/101/115/105/100/101/110/116/105/97/108
/65/109/97/108/103/97
/78/105/98/108/101/121
/80/114/111/118/105/100/101/110/99/101
/82/105/118/101/114/32/72/101/105/103/104/116/115
/83/109/105/116/104/102/105/101/108/100
/78/111/114/116/104/32/76/111/103/97/110
/72/121/100/101/32/80/97/114/107
/76/111/103/97/110
/77/105/108/108/118/105/108/108/101
/76/111/103/97/110/32/85/114/98/97/110/105/122/101/100/32/65/114/101/97
/67/105/116/121/32/66/111/117/110/100/97/114/121
/67/111/117/110/116/121/32/82/111/97/100/115
/83/116/97/116/101/32/72/105/103/104/119/97/121/115
/48/46/57 /48 /48/46/57 /77/105/108/101/115
/67/65/67/72/69/32/67/79/85/78/84/89
/76/79/71/65/78/32/85/82/66/65/78/73/90/69/68/32/65/82/69/65
/77/65/80/32/76/85/45/49/49
/49/48/49/50/51/52/53 /77/105/108/101/115
/67/65/67/72/69/32/67/79/85/78/84/89
/70/85/78/67/84/73/79/78/65/76/32/67/76/65/83/83/73/70/73/67/65/84/73/79/78/32/83/89/83/84/69/77
/77/65/80/32/76/85/45/49/50
/67/111/117/110/116/121/32/32/66/111/117/110/100/97/114/121
/67/111/117/110/116/121/32/82/111/97/100/115
/70/85/78/67/84/73/79/78/65/76/32/67/76/65/83/83/73/70/73/67/65/84/73/79/78
/80/114/105/110/99/105/112/97/108/32/65/114/116/101/114/105/97/108
/77/105/110/111/114/32/65/114/116/101/114/105/97/108
/77/97/106/111/114/32/67/111/108/108/101/99/116/111/114
/77/105/110/111/114/32/67/111/108/108/101/99/116/111/114
/70/111/114/101/115/116/32/83/101/114/118/105/99/101/32/65/114/101/97
/90/111/110/101/32/56
/72/121/114/117/109
/90/111/110/101/32/57
/80/97/114/97/100/105/115/101
/90/111/110/101/32/52
/67/108/97/114/107/115/116/111/110
/90/111/110/101/32/50
/76/101/119/105/115/116/111/110
/90/111/110/101/32/55
/76/111/103/97/110
/90/111/110/101/32/54
/87/101/108/108/115/118/105/108/108/101
/90/111/110/101/32/54
/77/101/110/100/111/110
/90/111/110/101/32/49/49
/83/109/105/116/104/102/105/101/108/100
/90/111/110/101/32/53
/78/101/119/116/111/110
/90/111/110/101/32/51
/82/105/99/104/109/111/110/100/90/111/110/101/32/57
/84/114/101/110/116/111/110
/90/111/110/101/32/49/48
/78/111/114/116/104/32/76/111/103/97/110
/67/65/67/72/69/32/67/79/85/78/84/89
/70/73/82/69/32/83/84/65/84/73/79/78/32/66/85/70/70/69/82/83
/49/48/49/50/51/52/53/54/77/105/108/101/115
/70/105/114/101/32/90/111/110/101/115
/67/111/117/110/116/121/32/82/111/97/100/115
/83/116/97/116/101/32/72/105/103/104/119/97/121/115
/70/105/114/101/32/83/116/97/116/105/111/110/115
/77/65/80/32/76/85/45/49/51
TRANSPORTATION ELEMENT 
 
 
The Transportation Element of the Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan is currently 
in Draft Form and has not been adopted as of yet. (5/24/01) 
TRANSPORTATION ELEMENT 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE     
Introduction ............................................................. . 1
Mission and Purpose
Planning Process
Socio-Economic Characteristics ............................................. . 7
Population Trends
Employment Trends
Future Conditions
Land Use Characteristics
Socio-Econonmic Issue Statement
Enviromental Issues ....................................................... 17
Air Quality
Noise
Natural Features
Soils
Environmental Issues Statement
Existing Transportation Facilities ........................................... 31
State Roads and Highways
County Roads
Municipal  Roads
Functional Classification System
Traffic Volumnes
Existing Transportation Issues Statement
Cache Metropolitan Planning Organization (CMPO) ........................... 45
2020 Long Range Transportation Plan
Financially Constrained Highway Projects
Transit and Highway Enhancement Projects
Intermodel Transportation Systems ......................................... 57
Modes of Travel
Railroads
Airports
Intermodel Issues Statements
Transportation Projects 2000-2020 .......................................... 75
Goals and Strategies ...................................................... 79
Appendix ................................................................ 81
Bibliography ............................................................. 93
TABLES PAGE
T-1 Population and Employment for Cache County 1990-1999 ................. 7
T-2 Population Trends in the Cache County Area ............................ 8
T-3 Employment Trends in Cache County .................................. 9
T-4 Socio-Economic Data for Cache County 1995 and 2020 .................... 9
T-5 Land Use Categories ................................................ 10
T-6 Percentage of Density Type .......................................... 11
T-7 National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) ...................... 17
T-8 Cache County Vehicles and VMT Trends 1990 to 1994 ................... 21
T-9 Road Fill Suitability by Soil Type ..................................... 29
T-10 Road Class Ownership .............................................. 31
T-11 Federal and State Highways and Classification .......................... 32
T-12 State Highway Projects (1999-2004) ................................... 35
T-13 Cache County Road Priorities Classification System ..................... 36
T-14 Cache County Road Mileage by Surface Type ........................... 36
T-15 Cache County Road Priorities ........................................ 39
T-16 Right-of-Way Functional Classification ................................ 42
T-17 Comparison of 1995 and 2020 Travel Characteristics ..................... 43
T-18 Comparison of 2020 Baseline and Modeled Alternatives .................. 49
T-19 CMPO “TOP 25" Project List ........................................ 50
T-20 CMPO Final Roadway Project Ranking ................................ 52
T-21 CMPO Transit and Highway Enhancement Projects ..................... 53
T-22 Short & Long Range Term Implementation Recommendations ............ 54
T-23 Mode of Travel (Worker 16 or older) .................................. 57
T-24 Park and Ride Lots Cache County .................................... 59
T-25 Passenger Trips and Vehicle Miles .................................... 61
T-26 Railroad Crossing and Relative Hazard ................................ 64
T-27 Existing and Projected Based Aircraft by Type .......................... 71
T-28 Existing and Projected Aircraft Annual Operations ...................... 71
T-29 Logan-Cache Airport Capital Improvement Plan ........................ 74
T-30 Projects (2001-2005) ................................................ 76
MAPS PAGE
T-1 State of Utah Regional Transportation System ........................... 3
T-2 Western United States Region Transportation System ..................... 5
T-3 Population and Employment Densities 1995 ............................. 13
T-4 Population and Employment Densities 2020 ............................. 15
T-5 Physical Constraints ................................................ 27
T-6 State Functional Classification System ................................. 33
T-7 Cache County Priority Road System ................................... 37
T-8 Logan Urbanized Area .............................................. 47
T-9 Cache County Railroad System ....................................... 65
T-10 Logan-Cache Airport ............................................... 69
T-11 .................................................................. 77
FIGURES PAGE
TP-1 Total Population and Employment 1990-1999 ............................ 7
TP-2 Cache County - Ozone (03) Levels 1995 - 2000 ........................... 18
TP-3 Cache County - Carbon Monoxide (CO) Levels 1995 - 2000 ............... 19
TP-4 Cache County - Particulate Matter (PM-10) Levels 1995 - 2000 ............ 20
TP-5 Land Use Compatibility Guidelines .................................... 23
TP-6 Functional Classification Network ..................................... 40
TP-7 Traffic Mobility and Land Access ..................................... 41
TP-8 LTD Fixed-Route Ridership by Fiscal Year ............................. 60
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 1
INTRODUCTION
A transportation system is one of the most vi tal elements of any region.  The highways, local roads,
public  transit, railroads, are other modes of transportation  are essential to  the orderly functioning of the
urban and nonurban areas.   These  transportation systems provide the mobility for people and goods as
well as access to land.  The planning for transportation facilities involves  a comprehensive analysis of
the transportation systems to  accommodate  future changes in demand with minimal cost and negative
impacts for the county and communities.
Transportation  systems are regional by nature and provide  access to and  from the surrounding areas of
the region.  Cache  County transportation system is a part of a much larger and regional system with  the
Wasatch Front and  the Intermountain region.  Many of the highways within Cache County provide pass
through  travel routes to ot her destinations in the Intermountain Region, as well as access to major
employment  centers within and outside of Cache  County.  The transportation  system of Cache County
and the planning of it can be divided  in two areas, the urbanized area and the non-urbanized area.  The
urbanized  area transportation system is planned by the Cache Metropolitan Planning Organization
(CMPO) and the non-urban area is planned by Cache County and individual cities.
Mission and Purpose
The mission and purpose of the Transportation Element of the Cache County-wide Comprehensive Plan
is to provide for the planning and programing of an effective transportation system for today and the
future  needs of Cache County. The County’s transportation system is the life blood for the entire County.
The development of a transportation system does and will have a tremendous effect on  the future of  the
County.
Highways  and roads systems normally do not begin and end at jurisdictional  boundaries.  The planning
for such systems should be planned based  on their affect on the region.  A well planned transportation
network  provides for a continuous  flow of traffic and vehicles from one location to  another.  To fully
understand  the mission and purpose of a transportation system you must look at the  overall functionality
of a system on a local, regional, and state leve ls.  MAP T-1  & MAP T-2  shows the regional
transportation system for Northern Utah and Southeast Idaho, and the Western United States.
Planning Process
The planning process for the Transportation Element is somew hat si milar to the Land Use Element.
However,  the time period for developing the Transportation  Element will  be somewhat shorter.  This
is due to much  of the input gathered during the  public open houses’ for the Land Use Element will be
used as the  bases of the Transportation Element.  Because the transportation system of Cache County
is a regional and multi-jurisdiction system the planning process fo r the development of the
Transportation  Element of the Countywide Comprehensive Plan  is based on a “3-C” planning process.
This process is based  on use of continuing  and comprehensive  transportation planning process done
cooperatively by the State, County, and local communities of Cache County.    
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 2
THIS  PAGE  INTENTIONALLY  LEFT  BLANK
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 3
MAP T-1
STATE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 4
BACK STATE REGIONAL MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 5
MAP  T-2
WESTERN UNITED STATES REGION TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 6
BACK WESTERN UNITED STATES REGION TRANSPORTATION  MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 7
FIGURE T-1    TOTAL POPULATION AND EMPLOYMENT 1990 - 1999
SOCIO-ECONOMIC CHARACTERISTICS
The socio-economic characteristics of the  County pl ays an important role in the discussion and
understanding  of the County’s transportation  system. Table T-1  shows the population  and employment
growth  trends  for Cache County from 1990 to  1996.  This data is broken down by County  total, Logan
Urbanized Area, and the Non-Urbanized Area of Cache County.
TABLE T-1  POPULATION AND EMPLOYMENT FOR CACHE COUNTY 1990 - 1999
1990 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 AARC*
Population
   Cache County Total
   Logan Urbanized Area
   Non-Urbanized Area
Employment
   Cache County Total
   Logan Urbanized Area
   Non-Urbanized Area
71,008
53,607
17,401
28,179
24,974
3,205
82,451
63,573
18,878
36,472
32,324
4,148
85,408
65,991
19,417
36,879
32,917
3,962
88292
68211
20082
37128
33058
4070
90,980
70,100
20,880
38,351
33,523
4,828
94,215
72,416
21,799
38,351
33,523
4,828
2.9 %
3.1 %
2.3 %
3.1 %
3.3 %
4.2 %
* AARC - Average Annual Rate of Change
Source: CPDO; Annual Report of Socio-Economic Characteristic, 1997
Much of the County’s population and employment growth has been located  primarily within the  Logan
Urbanized   Area.  FIGURE T-1  shows the breakdown of the total employment by Urbanized and Non-
Urbanized Areas and the rest of the population from 1990 to 1999.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 8
As the t able and graph show, most of the current employment is concentrated within the Logan
Urbanized  Area. Th is concentration of employment is why most of the transportation needs and
improvements  should be focused on the Logan Urbanized Area and the access  to and from the area to
other areas within and outside Cache County.
POPULATION TRENDS
Cache  County has maintained a fairly consistent growth rate since the 1950s.   Data collected shows that
most of the growth has primarily been  located within the Logan Urbanized Area.  During  the 1960s and
70s the population of the non urb anized area dec lined slightly, but since the 1980s has continued to
grow.  The population data are shown below in TABLE T-2.
TABLE T-2    POPULATION TRENDS IN THE CACHE COUNTY AREA
Year Logan Urbanized Area Non Urbanized Area Cache County Total
1950
1960
1970
1980
1990
1995
1996
23,524
26,353
32,390
42,507
52,929
63,573
65,592
10,012
9,435
9,941
14,669
17,254
18,878
19,402
33,536
35,788
42,331
57,176
70,183
82,451
85.728
Source: U.S. Bureau of Census, CPDO; Annual Report of Socio-Economic Characteristic, 1997
The growth patterns established in the 1950s, 60s, and 70s are  expected to  continue with the bulk of the
population  and dwelling units primarily  being developed in the Logan Urbanized Area.  This growth will
especially  be focused on the northern end  of the Logan Urbanized Area in Smithfield, Hyde  Park, and
North Logan area.  There will also be some development in the  southern end  the Logan Urbanized Area
in the cities of Providence, Millville, and Nibley.  The lack of a municipal sewer s ystem wi ll limit
development  in this area.  Population of Logan City is anticipated to have small limited growth  potential.
The growth and distribution of population  will have a great impact on the transportation needs for  the
year 2020.  While almost all the population growth will occur  in the Logan Urbanized  Area and on the
south end of Cache Valley, Logan City will still be the major  employment center in Cache County.  This
growth will increase the need for better north-south travel in and out of the area.
EMPLOYMENT TRENDS
The factors  most lending to the continued growth include a highly educated work force, a low cost  of
living,  and abundant recreational opportunities.   Employment in Cache County has grown at a rate faster
than the growth in population  and dwelling units.  TABLE T-3  shows the employment growth  trends
for Cache County since 1950.  The Logan Urbani zed Area has  always maintained most of the
employment within Cache County.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 9
TABLE T-3    EMPLOYMENT TRENDS IN CACHE COUNTY
Year Logan Urbanized Area Non Urbanized Area Cache County Total
1970
1980
1990
1995
1996
24,974
32,324
32,917
3,305
4,148
3,962
11,784
19,892
28,179
36,472
36,879
Source: U.S. Bureau of Census, CPDO; Annual Report of Socio-Economic Characteristic, 1997
The employment data for the Urbanized and Non-Urbanized Areas is not available since these a reas
were not created till the 1990 Census.  Basic employment is expected to continu e to expa nd in the
western  parts of Logan, and North Logan.  Residentiary employment (employment providing services
and sales to home  and people) will expand in the areas within the population growth ring of  the Logan
Urbanized Area.
FUTURE CONDITIONS
TABLE  T-4  shows 1995 and projec ted 2020 so cio-economic data for Cache County, including
population,  dwelling units, and employment.  Population is expected to  grow by more than 56  percent
during  the next 25-year period from 1995 to 2020.  The growth in dwelling units will parallel the growth
in population, although the number of dwelling units is expec ted t o grow at a slightly faster rate than
population.   Employment is projected to grow at a rate significantly  higher than the growth in population
and dwelling units.   Employment is projected to increase more than 76 percent in the Logan  Urbanized
Areas.
TABLE T-4    SOCIO-ECONOMIC DATA FOR CACHE COUNTY, 1995 AND 2020
Logan Urbanized Area Non Urbanized Area Cache County Total
Population
  1995
  2020
  % Gro wth
Dwelling Units
  1995
  2020
  % Gro wth
Employment
  1995
  2020
  % Gro wth
63,574
99,061
55.8%
20,132
31,649
57.2%
32,324
57,080
76.6%
18,877
29,581
56.7%
5,632
8,830
56.8%
4,148
7,291
75.8%
82,451
128,642
56.0%
25,764
40,479
57.1%
36,472
64,371
76.5%
Source: U.S. Bureau of Census, CPDO; Annual Report of Socio-Economic Characteristic, 1997
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 10
LAND USE CHARACTERISTICS
The automobile has played a very important part in the  development of today's American city.  Since
the development of the automobile at  the turn of the century, no modern convenience  has had a greater
impact  on the makeup of the moder n community.   More and more, we as a society are dependent on
the automobile. The relationship of transportation and land development is  very complex and reciprocal.
Land Use patterns affect travel decisions and travel decisions affect  development of land use  patterns.
Regional Land Use
The Countywide Planning & Development Office prepares  and  maintains an Annual  Report of Socio-
Economic  Characteristics .  This annual report includ e su ch things as population, dwelling units,
employment,  and income.  The data is collected annually  from the local municipal and county building
permit  data, Governor’s Office of Planning and Budget, Utah State  Tax Commission, and  Department
of Workforce Services.  The census year acts as a base year count for  the population and dwelling units
information.
Data from this socio-economic report can provide an understanding of l and use for the region.  A
statistical  method was developed to determine  land use patterns based on population and  employment
growth rate data derived from the above mentioned socio-economic characteristics.
Generalized  land use maps can be developed based on  population or  employment density rates.  These
population and employment densities can be  determined from the 150 traffic  zones making up Cache
County.   Where population densities exceeded employment, these were divide d into four land use
categories.   Where employment was greater than population, these w ere divide d into three land use
categories.   The land use maps use a  generalized definition for land use.  TABLE T-5  shows the land
use categories and the density formula used for each category. 
TABLE T-5    LAND USE CATEGORIES
Category Density
Residential, High D ensity
Residential, Mediu m Density
Residential, Low D ensity
Vacant, or Open
Commercial/In dustrial, Lo w Den sity
Commercial/In dustrial, Hig h Density
Population > Employment; 15+ Persons/acre
Population > Employment; 6 - 15 Persons/acre
Population > Employment; 0.5 - 6 Persons/acre
0 - 0.5 Person/acre or 0 - 1 job/acre
Employm ent > Population; 1- 7 jobs/acre
Employm ent > Population; 7+ jobs/acre
Source: CPDO; Regional Planning Projects, 1997
These  categories are based on population and employment densities.  It would be impossible to identify
detailed  land use types,  howeve r, these provide a fair understanding as to the location and type of
development  in terms of residential or commercial/industrial.  TABLE T- 6  shows the percentage of
density type within Cache County.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 11
TABLE T-6     PERCENTAGE OF DENSITY TYPE
Category
Logan Urbanized
Area
Non Urbanized
 Area
Cache County 
Total
Residential, High Density
1995
2020
Residential, Medium Den sity
1995
2020
Residential, Low Density
1995
2020
Vacant, or Open Space
1995
2020
Com/Industrial, Low D ensity
1995
2020
Com/Industrial, High Density  
1995
2020
64
1,644
 2,141
2,095
 14,013
19,122
 34,969
27,352
818
1,375
 1,286
1,702
0
0
0
0
4,869
4,869
693,201
693,201
0
0
0
0
64
1,644
2,141
2,095
18,882
23,991
728,170
720,553
818
1,375
1,286
1,702
Source: CPDO; Regional Planning Projection, 1997
   
Based on the above information, the Log an Urbanized Area will experience most of the growth for
Cache  County  over the next twenty five years.  Much of the non urbanized  areas of Cache County will
remai n undeveloped by 2020.  This is primarily due to the lack of urban services within t hese area s
except  within individual municipalities or some type of dev elopm ent constraint caused by the
geomorphology  of  Cache Valley.  MAPS  T-3 and T-4  show the 1995 and  projected 2020 population
and employment densities for the Logan Urbanized Area. 
SOCIO-ECONOMIC ISSUE STATEMENT
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 12
THIS  PAGE  INTENTIONALLY  LEFT  BLANK
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 13
MAP T-3
1995 POPULATION/EMPLOYMENT DENSITIES FOR CACHE COUNTY
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 14
BACK 1995 POPULATION/EMPLOYMENT DENSITIES  FOR CACHE COUNTY
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 15
MAP T-4
 2020 POPULATION/EMPLOYMENT DENSITIES FOR CACHE COUNTY
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 16
BACK 2020 POPULATION/EMPLOYMENT DENSITIES
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 17
ENVIRONMENTAL   ISSUES
The development of a transportation system that provides for  the needs of the  citizens are affected by
many factors.  Paramount are the existing physical  or the environmental issues of  a region.  These issues
include air quality, noise, hydrology, soils, and other.
AIR QUALITY
The Clean Air Act Amendments (CAA) of 1990, over earlier Clean Air Acts, were prompted in part  by
the fact that increasing numbers of  people in the United States  were living in areas designated as non-
attainment  for one or more pollutants for which National Ambient Air Quality  Standards (NAAQS) have
been previously set (criteria pollutants) and the continuing conc ern about  the health effects of air
pollutant  on people.  The EPA estimates that 86.4  million Americans  reside in non-attainment areas for
any NAAQS.
There  are six criteria pollutants addressed in the CAA of 1990.  A list of the health effects of these
criteria  pollutants are included in  the Appendix.  Table T-7 below list the six criteria pollutants of the
Clean  A ir Acts Amendments of 1990 and the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS). 
These  national ambient air quality standards have been established to  protect public health  and welfare.
The health effects of the different air pollutants are included the appendix.
TABLE T-7   NATIONAL AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS (NAAQS)
Criteria
Pollutants
Federal Standards
 ppm             ug/m 3             Period
            Allowed
            Excedences
Problem
Times
Ozone
Carbon Monoxide
Particulates (PM10)
Oxide of Nitrogen
Sulfur Dioxide
Lead
0.12
9
35
--
--
0.05
.03
0.14
--
--
235
10,000
40,000
60
150
100
80
365
 (1300)
1.5
1-hour
8-hour
1-hour
Ann. Avg.
24-hour
Ann. Avg.
Ann. Avg.
24-hour
3-hour
3-month
3 times in 3 years
1 time in 1 year
1 time in 1 year
Mean
1 time in 1 year
Mean
Mean
1 time in 1 year
 1 time in 1 year
Mean
Summer
Winter
Winter
Winter
Winter
Winter
Source: Bear River H ealth Department
The Bear River Health Department i s current ly working with the Utah State Department of
Environmental  Quality to maintain an air quality  monit oring station within Cache County. This
monitoring  station has been in operation since June of 1995. The data monitored includes Particulate
Matter  (PM10), Carbon  Monoxide (CO), and Ozone (O3). The air quality monitoring station is  located
in Logan City at approximately 50 West 200 North.  The following three figures show the historical data
collected  for each of the three of the  crit eria pollutants.  These three pollutants are more identified as
transportation related pollutants.  The other  three criteria pollutants are associated  more with industry
and heavy manufacturing uses.  The f igures show t he monthly monitored levels versus the Federal
Ambient  Air Quality Standards for Ozone (O3), Carbon Monoxide  (CO), and Particulate Matter (PM10)
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 18
FIGURE T-2   CACHE COUNTY - OZONE (03) LEVELS 1995 - 2000  
0-
-
I I I I I I I I 
o-
l ----~ I - T ===------
0 I I I I 
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 19
FIGURE T-3   CACHE COUNTY - CARBON MONOXIDE (CO) LEVELS 1995 - 2000
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 20
FIGURE T-4  CACHE COUNTY - PARTICULATE MATTER (PM-10) LEVELS 1995 - 2000
I I I I 
~ 
l ~ ff 
T 
~ . r 
_£ v 
0 I I I I 
l o 
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 21
These  figures show that Cache County currently has  not violated a national ambient air quality standards
for any of the criteria pollutants.  This  means that  Cache County still remains defined as an attainment
area for air quality.   This is not to say, however,  that there are not air quality issues for the County.  Air
pollutants  can come from a number of different  sources.  These sources include vehicles, industry, wood
burning  stoves, lawn mowers, and the backyard barbeque.  Ca che V alley is particularly vulnerable to
air quality problems due to frequent temperature inversions during  fair weather high pressure periods
in the winter months which trap pollutants near the valley floor.
Over half of the pollutants in the air  to day come primarily from vehicles.  The number of vehicles
nationally  have remained fairly constant, but  the amount of vehicle miles traveled  has been increasing
at a much faster rate.   This trend is the same for Cache County.  As Table T-8   shows the percentage
change  for the number of vehicles registered in 1990 to 1994 is 14.05 percent while t he pe rcentage
change  for the vehicle miles travels is 30.73 pe rcent.  This  trend is consistent with national trends of
VMT over the number of vehicles.  Urban sprawl is one of the leading factors causing this  problem.  If
this trend continues in Cache County, the overall air quality  will suffer, and the ultimate conclusion is
for Cache County will b ecome a designated  non-attainment area unless there are efforts to curb the
growing air quality problems.
TABLE T-8    CACHE COUNTY VEHICLES AND VMT TRENDS 1990 TO 1994
Jurisdiction
1990 
Vehicles
1994
Vehicles
Percentage
Change
1990 
VMT
1994
VMT
 Percentage
Change
Amalga
Clarkst on
Cornish
Hyde Park
Hyrum
Lewiston
Logan
Mendon
Millville
Newton
Nibley
North Logan
Paradise
Providence
Richmond
River He ights
Smithfield
Trenton
Wellsville
Unincorporated
127
467
144
1,466
3,757
1,111
20,210
653
834
563
912
2,369
664
2,710
1,422
680
4,052
369
1,725
2,870
407
511
175
1,777
4,453
1,256
24,059
820
1,051
630
1,155
2,296
863
2,836
1,655
632
4,901
417
2,292
2,061
220.47%
9.42%
21.53%
21.21%
18.53%
13.05%
19.05%
25.57%
26.02%
11.90%
26.64%
-3.08%
29.97%
4.65%
16.39%
-7.06%
20.95%
13.01%
32.87%
-29.23%
2,315
1,290
4,154
40,798
25,951
24,349
396,683
4,568
5,184
1,925
15,923
88,053
5,296
16,666
28,847
7,043
72,239
5,099
33,883
503,607
4,046
1,449
5,195
51,598
30,814
34,066
508,616
5,936
6,250
2,374
25,975
108,654
5,798
21,724
35,492
8,699
88,847
7,828
42,686
682,401
74.77%
13.33%
25.06%
26.47%
18.74%
39.91%
28.22%
29.95%
20.56%
23.32%
63.13%
23.40%
9.48%
30.35%
23.04%
23.51%
22.99%
53.52%
25.98%
35.50%
Cache C ounty 47,787 54,502 14.05% 1,283,873 1,678,448 30.73%
Source: Utah Department of Transportation
The Clean Air Act of 1990  requires that  all areas in violation for the National Ambient Air Quality
Standards  implement  reasonably available transportation-related control measures  in order to meet the
standards.   These control measures cover a broad range of strategies, including the Fe deral Moto r
Vehicle  Control  Program (FMVCP), Inspection and Maintenance (I/M)  programs, and Traffic Control
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 22
Measures (TCM).
NOISE
The air around us is constantly filled with sounds, yet most of us would probably not say we are
surrounded  by noise.  What then is the  difference between ordinary sound and what we call noise?  The
traditional  definition of noise is  “unwanted sound”.   Sound becomes unwanted when it either interferes
with our normal activities such as sleeping, conversation or recreation, when it causes actual physical
harm such as hearing loss or has adverse effects on  mental health.  As we have become a more urbanized
country  and as technology has advanced, the level of sound in our environment has reached the point
when it sometimes does cause interference and does cause physical and psychological harm.
The main contributors to  a community’s noise problems  are transportation sources such as highways,
railroads  and airports.  These sources are the  most pervasive and continuing of the  noise sources within
the community.  Of course, at any give site, there may be other noise sources  which add to the problems,
such as jack-hammers at a construction site.  But in general, and for the purposes of the Transportation
Element, the main concern is with the transportation sources.
The dynamics of a noise problem are  based on the  relationship between the noise source, the person or
place exposed to the noise (receiver) and the path the noise will trave l from source to  receiver.  The
source generates a given amount  of noise which travel along  the path and arrives at the receiver.  The
amount  of noise will be reduced to some extent  as a result of how long that path is or whether there are
any barriers along the path. The severi ty of the impact on the receiver is a function of what type of
activity  is taking place, whether  it is indoors or outdoors, and what type of building  it is in if the activity
is indoors.  Figure  T-??  shows some  basic land use compatibility guidelines.  The figure below shows
different  land use types  and sound level guideline recommendations for each land use type.  The noise
levels are shown in  the Day Night Average Sound Level System, abbreviates as DNL  and symbolized
mathematically as L dn.
The impact of  nosie c an be altered or mitigated by changing the characteristics of any of the three
elements:  source, path or receiver.   The ideal solution to a potential problem is to reduce the noise being
produced  by the source.  The best solution available to the community, however, is to make su re tha t
noise sensitive uses  are located where they will not be exposed to high noise levels.  The next best
approach  to mitigating noise impact  is to attempt to reduce the amount of noise that reaches the receiver.
This can be accomplished through  the use of barriers such as walls or  earthen berms, or combinations
of both, along  the nosie path.   If the use of barriers is not possible, then the only alternative available is
to provi de noise reduction measures in any structures associated with the activity so that at least the
interior  spaces are not exposed to high noise levels.   Figure T-5  on the follow ing page shows
recommended land use compatibility guidelines from the US Department  of Housi ng and Urban
Development’s The Nosie Guidebook
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transpor tation Element (5/01) Page 23
FIGURE T-5     LAND USE COMPATIBILI TY GUIDELINES
Source: U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
NATURAL FEATURES
The most important envir onmental factors ar e those dealing wit h natural featur es.  From an
environmental  standpoint the primary physical constrain ts deal with issues associated  with water.  These
include  water resources, wet lands areas, and f lood plain areas.   There is a detaile d discussion of  each
of these natural f eatures included as  part of the L and Use Elemen t of the Cache  Countywide
Comprehen sive Plan.  Fo r the purpose of  the Transportatio n Element a brief dis cussion of the issues
associated  with each of thes e natural featur es and possible qu estion that shou ld be tak en i nto
consideration of any project.
Water Resources
Water resources play an importa nt r ole in nearly every comm unity, as a source of drinking, as a
recreational  resource, as a s ource of water f or irrigati on, and as a fis hery.  Water r esources can be
divided i nto two  subcategories:  ground water  and surface water.   For discuss ion of the Transpo rtation
Element we  will be  more c oncern ed abo ut surfac e wate r and wa ter qua lity.
Surface  water can range from very large rivers and lakes to small ponds and streams. Urban deve lopment
can, however, have a serious n egative impact on w ater quality.  Surface waters,  chiefly rivers and large
lakes, frequently suffer from the effects of pollution  generated by factories, urban sewage systems, power
plants and agricultural ru noff. 
While most water quality  problems are due to ef fluents fr om sewerage  treatment plants,  sewer system
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 24
overflows  and industrial waste outfalls, new commercial  and  residential development can have an
adverse  effect on surface water quality.  The source of  such pollution is from urban runoff, chiefly from
impervious surfaces  such as streets, parking  lots and sidewalks from which oil and gasoline is carried
by rain into surface water.
The following questions should also be asked when conducting the wetland screening:
C Are there visual or indications of water problems on or near the site?
C Will the project   involve a substantial increase  in imperious surface area, and, if so, have runoff
measures been included in the design?
Wetland Areas
“Wetlands” refers to those areas that are inundated by surface or groundwater with a frequency  sufficient
to support and under normal circumstances does or  would support a prevalence of vegetative or aquatic
life that requires saturated or seasonally saturated soils conditions for growth and reproduction.
Wetlands  generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and simila r are as such as sloughs, potholes, wet
meadows, river overflows, mud flats, and naturals ponds.
Wetland s can assist man through groundwater filtering, storage, recharge, flood control, nurturing
wildlife,  including food sources such as water fow l and fish, water purification, oxygen production,
recreational  locations, and aesthetics.  Urbanization has heavily impacted wetlands in  the United States.
It is estimated that from  over a third to a half of the wetlands in the United  States have been destroyed.
In addition to filing, creation of pollution threatens additional wetlands.  Federal  policy recognizes that
wetlands  have unique and significant public values and calls for t he prote ction of wetlands. The
following should be taken into consideration:
C Avoid long and short-term  adverse impacts associated with the destruction  or modification of
wetlands;
C Avoid direct or indirect support of new construction in wetlands;
C Minimize the destruction, loss or degradation of wetlands;
C Preserve and enhance the natural and beneficial values served by wetlands; and,
C Involve the public throughout the wetlands protection decision making process.
C Look for available alternatives to locating the project or activity in the wetland.
C Is the proposed project or activity in compliance with conditions set fo rth by the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers concerning permits for dredge and fill activity?
Flood plain Areas
The evaluation of a transportation project should consider both flood hazards and possible increa sed
flood hazards and environmental impacts resulting from construction.  Federal policy defines high  flood
risk areas (flood plains) as those subject to a one percent or greater statistical chance of flooding in a
given year.  Areas identified  by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) as having special
flood hazards are defined in the Flood Hazard Bound ary Maps or Flood Insurance Rate Maps.  The
Flood Zone A and V are referred to as the “100-year flood plain”.
Such areas are expected to flood at least once every one hundred years and are normall y dry areas
subject  to partial or complete inundation due to  overflow of inland waterways or accumulation of other
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 25
surface  water.  Typical flood plain areas include low land  along rivers and  streams,  flat areas in which
storm water accumulates due to clay soils, and ravine areas subject to flash floods.
Impacts  of locating a transportation project in a flood plain may range from  property damage  to loss of
life when a flood occurs.  Even if a trans portat ion project is not located in a flood plain, project
construction  may increase flood hazards elsewhere.   For example, extensive paving may result in faster
runoff and substantially increase water volumes being emptied in local rivers or lakes.
The following questions should be asked when conducting the initial flood hazard screening:
C Will the project be located in the 100-year flood plain?
C Will the project change the  100-year flood plain, or affect the f lood way ?  (The flood way is the
portion  of the flood plain that must be reserv ed in order to discharge the 100-year flood with
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot at any point.) 
C Are there available alternatives to locating the proposed project or activity in the flood plain?
C Is the proposed project or activity in co mpliance with conditions set forth by the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers concerning permits for dredge and fill activity?
Where these natural features cannot be avoided, the project or activity must be  designed or modified so
as to minimize the potential adverse impacts affecting  water resources, wetland and flood plain  areas.
Restore  and preserve the natural and beneficial  values served by these natural features, and use measures
which mitigate or reduce the risk of decreased water quality, f lood l oss, and loss of wetland areas.
Mitigation  must achieve protection of l ife, property , and of the natural and beneficial values of the
natural features.   Map T-5  on the following page shows these natural features for the Cache Valley.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 26
THIS  PAGE  INTENTIONALLY  LEFT  BLANK
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 27
MAP T-5
CACHE COUNTY PHYSICAL CONSTRAINTS MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 28
BACK PAGE OF PHYSICAL CONSTRAINTS MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 29
SOILS
The soils of Cache  County are formed from the area's surfacial geology and  are generally lake bottom
sedimentary  types which remained beh ind the receding waters of ancient Lake Bonneville.  The soils
play a very important part in the suitability for the  development of  roadways.  Table T-9   shows the road
fill suitability by soil type.  The ranking was developed from the USDA Soil Survey for the Cache
TABLE T-9  ROAD FILL SUITABILITY BY SOIL TYPE
Soil Type Road Fill Suitability Soil Type Road Fill Suitability
Agassiz
Airport
Ant Flat
Avon
Barfuss
Battle Creek
Bickmore
Blackrock
Bradshaw
Cache
Cardon
Center Creek
Clegg
Cluff
Collett
Collins ton
Crookston
Crowshaw
Curtis Creek
Dagor
Dateman
Datwyler
Despain
Elwood
Elzinga
Fitzgerald
Flygare
Foxol
Goring
Green Canyon
Greenson
Hendricks
Hiibner
Hillfield
Hoskin
Hyrum
Jordan
Kidman
Kirkham
Lakewin
LaPlatta 
Lasil
slight
modera te
severe
modera te
modera te
severe
slight
modera te
slight
severe
severe
severe
slight
slight
severe
modera te
modera te
modera te
modera te
modera te
slight
modera te
modera te
slight 
slight
slight
slight
modera te
severe
modera te
modera te
modera te
severe
modera te
slight
modera te
severe
modera te
modera te
slight
severe
severe
Layton
Leatham
Lewiston
Logan
Lucky Star
Maughan
McM urdie
Mendon
Middle
Millville
Mult
Munk
Nebeker
Nibley
Obray
Parleys
Parlo
Payson
Picayune
Poleline
Preston
Provo
Quinney
Red Spur
Richmond
Ricks
Roshe Springs
St. Mary
Salt Lake
Scave
Scout
Shay
Sheep Creek
Smarts
Steed
Sterling
Timpanogos
Trenton
Wheelon
Winn
Wood s Cross
Yeats Hollow
slight
modera te
modera te
severe
modera te
modera te
severe
severe
slight
modera te
modera te
modera te
modera te
severe
severe
modera te
modera te
severe
modera te
modera te
slight
slight
severe
modera te
slight
slight
modera te
slight
severe
modera te
modera te
severe
modera te
modera te
modera te
slight
modera te
severe
modera te
modera te
severe
modera te
Source:  USDA Soil Survey, Cache Valley Area, Utah, 1974.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 30
Valley Area.  The following criteria were used to rank the soil types suitability for road fill.
C Slight - f ew existing limitations can be easily  overcome
C Moderate - limitations can be overcome by careful planning and sound management
C Severe - limitations are serious enough to make use questionable  and above average planning
and management are required
ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUE STATEMENT
The environment issues play a  very important role in development of  roads as part of the transportation
system.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 31
EXISTING TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES
The existing transportation  facilities within the jurisdictional boundaries of Cache  County are divided
into three separate groupings.  These gr oupi ngs are based on the ownership and maintenance
responsibility  for the public  rig ht-of-way.  These different transportation facility’s makeup the
transportation networks within Cache County.
The different roads and public right-of-ways are  under jurisdiction of different public entities, but they
should function as a single region transportation network.  This  multiple ownership  of roads complicates
the planning process f or ma naging the entire transportation system.  The coordination of a region
transportation  system requires all jurisdictions look beyond their own jurisdictional bou ndarie s to
understand the needs of the system.  The transportation network is broken into a set of road
classifications.   Table T-10  below provides a description of each class of road, with ownershi p an d
funding sources for maintaining these different roads.
TABLE T-10 ROAD CLASS AND OWNERSHIP
 TYPE OWNERS HIP
Class A
Class B
Class C
Class D
Roads  under the jurisdiction and cont rol of the  Utah Department of  Transportat ion.  These r oads
are constructed and maintai ned by UDOT from funds made available for that purpose.
Roads  located in the unincorporated areas u nder  the juri sdicti on and control of Cache County.
These ro ads are co nstructed and maintained by the County R oad De partment.
Roads  located i n the incorpor ated municipaliti es of  Cache C ounty.  They are under the juris diction
and  con trol of e ach community.  These roads are c onstructed and maintained by each of the
different communities.
Any  roadway, or other land sur face route that has been or is e stabli shed for  use  by the public for
vehicles with four or more wheels that  are neit her a Class  A, Class B,  or Class C r oad.
Source: Utah Department of Transportation
The Class B & C road system  is a program established by the Utah Legislature as a means of providing
assistance  to counties and  incorporated municipalities for the improvement of roads and streets
throughout the State.  The purpose  of B &  C road funds is intended for construction and maintenance
of county roads and municipal streets.  The B &  C road funds come from 25 percent highway  user taxes
and 1/16 percent of the state  sales tax which are allocated to these funds.  These funds are distributed
based on a formula of population and a weighted ratio of road mileage.
STATE ROADS AND HIGHWAYS SYSTEM
State roads and  highways are owned and maintained by the State of Utah through the Utah  Department
of Transportation (UDOT).  There is a number of state and federal ly o wned transportation facilities
located  throughout Cache County.  The State roads and highway’s system provide the primary road
networ k.  The primary function of a road system is to move traffic from City to City, and County to
County,  and State to State.   Table T-11 on the following page shows  the Federal and State designated
highways  within Cache County.   The table  also has a description and functional classification for each
of these roads.   Map T-6   graphically depicts the different state highways within Cache County.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 32
TABLE T-11 FEDERAL AND STATE HIGHWAYS AND CLASSIFICATION
Highway Descripti on Classifi cation
US Highway 89/91
US Highway 91
US Highway 89
State Highway 23
State Highway 30
State Highway 61
State Highway 101
State Highway 142
State Highway 165  
State Highway 200
State Highway 218
State Highway 237
 State Highway 238
 State Highway 239
State Highway 243
State Highway 288
From Box Elder County li ne  through  Wellsville C anyon  northerly  to
400 North in Logan
From  400 North in Lo gan no rtherly via  North Logan, Hyde Park,  and
Smithfiel d to Utah-Idaho state line near Franklin,  Idaho
From  Main Street at 400 North in Logan,  via Logan Canyon to t he
Rich County li ne
From  US Highway 89/91 south of Wellsville northerl y via Wellsville,
Mendon,  Petersboro, Newton, and C ornish  to the Utah-Idaho state  line
near Weston, I daho
From the Box  Elder Co unty Lin e to  US Highway 89/91 at Main Street
at 200 North in Logan
From  Rou te 23 at C ornish easterl y through Lewiston  to Route 91 at
Webster Junct ion
From  Wellsville o n Route  easterly  via Hyrum  to the Hardware Ranch
with a stub connection to the Visitor’s  center and parking area
From  Route 23  near Newton  to Clarkston; thenc e easter ly via Trent on
to US highway 91
From  Paradise northerly via Hyrum  and Nibley to US Highway  89/91
in Logan
From  Route  61 in Lewiston  northerly  through  to the Utah -Idaho sta te
line near Preston,  Idaho
State  Highway 23 East of New ton easterly to US H ighway  91 in
Smithfield
From  700 North  and 800 East in  Logan Northerly to Hyde Park; thence
west to US Highway 91
From  Route 165 East to  Millville;  thence  northerly via Providence and
River Heights to US Highway 89/91 in Logan
From  US Hig hway 91 East co incident w ith 1400  North to State
Highway 237
From  US Highway  89 in Logan Canyon to Beaver Mountain Ski
Resort
From  US Highway 89 at 1200 East in Logan, Utah St ate Unive rsity ,
via 1200 East and 1000 North to State Highway 237
Principal  Arterial
Principal  Arterial
Principal  Arterial
Major Collect or
Minor Arterial
Major Collect or
Major Collect or
Major Collect or
Minor Arterial
Major Collect or
Major Collect or
Minor Arterial
Minor Arterial
Minor Arterial
Major Collect or
Urban Collect or
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 33
MAP T-6
STATE FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 34
BACK FUNCTIONAL CLASS MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 35
State Transportation Improvement Program (STIP)
The Utah Department of Transportation has  developed  a set of projects for the State Highways within
Cache  County.  These projects are part of the  State Transportation  Improvement Program (STIP). The
STIP is developed through the coordinated efforts of the Utah Depar tment of Transportation,
metropolitan  planning organizations, federal agencies, transportation providers, local governments,
citizens  and other interested parti es.  The  projects are funded and programed to be developed over a
number  of years based on the available money.  In  addition  to the funded projects there is also a list of
unfunded  needs for the State Highway  System.  The funded  projects needs for Cache County are listed
below in Table T-12.
TABLE T-12 STATE HIGHWAY PROJECTS (1999 TO 2004)
Location Concept Year Cost
Smithfiel d Canal NE side (North Logan)
Cache Valley Corridor
Regional Ride Share Program
Logan  Pedestrian /Bike Path
Logan Signal Coordi nation
Logan  Canyo n, Tony  Grove to Franklin Basin
1000 East, Mountai n Road to 200 North 
Center Street,  Logan
Smithfiel d City Limit s to Idaho St ate Line
SR 165, Hyrum to Nibley
Logan  Canyo n, Tony  Grove to Franklin Basin
Cache Valley Corridor
Logan Canyon
SR-30, 1200 West to Main Street, Logan
SR-30, 1200 West Logan t o SR 23
Logan River Bridge  (Logan Canyon)
Smithfiel d City Limit s to Idaho St ate Line
Cache Valley Corridor
Logan Canyon
Bridge repl acement
Logan Range Plan
Program development
New constructi on
Coord inate signals
Recon & replace Upper Twin Bridge
Road improvement
Roadw ay improvem ents
Preliminar y engineering
Reconstruct, widen to four lanes
Reconstruct ion
Preliminar y engineering
Preliminar y Engineering
Reconstruct to 40' width
Widening & resurfacing
Bridge repl acement (D674)
Reconstruct & widen to 4 Lanes
Preliminar y engineering
Reconstruction & widen
1999
1999
1999
1999
2000
2000
2000
2000
2000
2002
2002
2002
CD*
CD
CD
CD
CD
CD
CD
  $    350,000
500,000
8,000
450,000
500,000
8,450,000
744,000
386,142
500,000
4,200,00
2,500,00
500,000
1,000,000
8,000,000
14,000,000
1,000,000
29,000,000
8,156,250
27,000,000
CD* - Concept Developme nt
Source: 1999 STIP and District 1, Utah Department of Transportation
COUNTY ROAD SYSTEM
The county road’s system is owned or maintained by  Cache County within the unincorporated areas of
the county.  This system provides some of the same functions as  the state highways by providing  access
from city to city.  However, the county road system is  secondary to the state highway’s  road system.
The county road system also provides access to the individual parcels of the unincorp orated areas of
Cache  County. This is the primary fu nction for the  county road system.  Unlike the State Highway
system,  the county road system is made up  of two types of road right-of-ways,  dedicated and right-of-
ways by right or use. Dedicated road right-of-ways are  held in  direct ownership by Cache County and
road right-of-way by use or right are not owned directly by the County.   They are,  however, still public
right-of-ways  that have been used for  many years  by the public and cannot be closed to public access.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 36
 Cache Co unty uses the road priority classification system for all of its road right-of-ways. This road
priority system was first used to determine which roads were to  be snow  plowed first.  Over the years
it has become away to identify and classify the county road system.  Table T-13 shows the breakdown
of the Cache County ro ad priority classification system and Map T-7  graphically depicts the county
roads and their priority classification system.
TABLE T-13 CACHE COUNTY ROAD PRIORITY CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM
Road Priority Definiti on
1ST Priority
2ND Priority
3RD Priority
4TH Priority
County  roads that  have mail and bus routes.  Most of these roads are paved and  receive  first
priorit y to be snow plowed.
These roads are snow plow ed as needed.  There is no mail or bus service to these roads.
These  roads are snow plowed  as needed.  These roads prim arily  are farm roads or animal feed
lot access roads.
These  road s recei ve no services of any type, except f or annual bla ding as requi red by the
UDOT for being counted as a Class D road
Source: Cache County Road Department.
The County maintains approximately 460 miles of roads.  The surface conditions  of these roads range
from paved to dirt roads.  TABLE T-14  below shows the different surface types and compares 1990 and
1996 road mileages by surface type.
TABLE T-14 CACHE COUNTY ROAD MILEAGE BY SURFACE TYPE
Surface Type 1990 Mileage 1996 Mileage Percent Change
  Paved
  Gravel
  Other (D irt)
107.67
225.36
106.72
150.41
261.59
47.13
39.7%
16.1%
-56.8%
Total 439.75 459.15 4.4%
Source: Cache County Road Department.
The amount  of paved roads has increased about 40 percent and gravel roads have also increased  about
16 percent since 1990.  However, the mileage of the other roads  have declined 57 percent for the same
time period.  The definitions used for these road surface types are the following:
C A paved road is a road with  a concrete or bituminous surface.  The minimum requirement is  a
chip seal over a gravel surface;
C A gravel road is  a road with an improved surface, graded and drained by a  transverse drainage
system  to prevent serious impairment of  the road by surface water.  A gravel road has a wearing
surface  made of gravel, broken stone, slag, iron ore, s hale, or other material which is coarser
than sand.
C Other roads include the  remainder of eligible roads which do not meet the definition of paved
or gravel.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 37
MAP  T-7
FRONT COUNTY PRIORITY MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 38
BACK OF COUNTY PRIORITY MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 39
County Road Development Priorities
Cache  County’s curre nt emphasis with the County’s transportation network is on maintenance of the
existing system.  There are no new plans for development of new roads to the current transportation
network.   Much of the  road departments current budget is committed to maintaining the existing
facilities with some limited upgrading of existing roads but no development of new roadways.
Cache  County has developed a set of road priorities for  the County.  However, these priorities are based
on the making of improvements to  the State Highway system.  These road priorities are included below
in  TABLE T-15 .
TABLE T-15 CACHE COUNTY ROAD PRIORITIES
Priority Project
1
2
3
4
5
Improvements to US Highway 89 (Logan Canyon)
Cache Valley Corridor
Improvements to US Highway 91(Smithfield to Utah/Idaho Border)
Improvements to SR-165 (Nibley to Hyrum)
Improvements to SR-30 (Logan to Cache/Box Elder County Line)
Cache County Roads Special Service District
In 1989 Cache County created a Special Service  District for the purpose  of constructing, repairing and
maintaining  roads within the District.  The boundary of the district includes all of the unincorporated
areas of Cache County.  The District is controlled by an administrative board of 7 me mbers an d are
appointed by the County Executive and Council.  
The District currently has no  power to levy a tax or issue bonds payable from taxes without the approval
of the Cache County Council.   However, the District does receive limited funding from the Utah State
Mineral  Lease Account.  This funding amounts to approximately $20,000 a year.  The Board of the
Special  Service District holds a meeting one a year and gives direction to the County’s Road Department
on work projects for each year.
MUNICIPAL ROAD SYSTEM
The municipal road system is m ade up o f those roads owned and maintained by each individual
municipal  jurisdictions.  This road system provides for access to  property within the existing
municipality and connection to  adjoining jurisdictions. The municipal road systems are very complex
and their interrelationship within the region system is very importa nt for th e planning of a regional
transportation system for Cache County.
Municipal Road Priorities
Each municipality will have their own set of  priorities for road projects within  their community.  It is
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 40
FIGURE T-6      FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION NETWORK
important  that these priorities be identified and  mapped.  Nine of  the 19  incorporated communities of
Cache County and the County makeup the Cache Metropolitan  Planning Organization (CMPO).   The
CMPO  is responsible for  transportation planning  within the Logan Urbanized Area.  A more detailed
discussion  of this organization and its road  priorities are included  in a separate chapter of this element.
FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM
The transportation system within the County  may be further defined based  on the purpose or function
of each road  type. The functional classification system is  a  process by which streets and highways are
grouped  into classes, or systems, according to the character or level of  service they are intended to
provide.  This process recognizes that in dividual  roads and highways do not serve travel demands
independently.   Rather, most travel involves movement through a network of roads and hi ghwa ys.
Functional  classification defines the nature of this channelization process defining the part that particular
road or street should play in  serving the flow of  trips through a road and highway network.  Figure T-6
is a graphical illustration of a conceptual functional classification network.
Source: US DOT, Federal Highway Administration, 1989
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 41
FIGURE T-7 TRAFFIC MOBILITY AND LAND ACCESS
A functional classification netwo rk provi des a dual role in providing (1) access to property, and (2)
travel  mobility.  For mobility, high speeds with few interruptions from intersections  and driveways are
desirable;  for land access, low s peeds are desirable.  For example, a principal arterial which provides
a high degree of mobility, provides limited access to preserve the high speed, high volume characteristic
of the facility.  If low speed access were provided  on these roads, extremely hazardous conditions would
be created.  The opposite is true on local, low speed roads  that must provide access  to the adjacent land
areas.  The roads between these extremes are the most difficult to classify: those that must provide both
mobility  and land access.  Figure T-7  below graphically depicts the relationship of functionally
classified systems in serving traffic mobility and land access.
Source: US DOT, Federal Highway Administration, 1989
A tradeoff exists  between vehicular access and vehicular movement as it relates to roadway  function.
Principal  arterial streets, minor arterial streets, collector streets, and local streets have a decreasing
emphasis  on through traffic movement and a related increasing level of direct  access. The streets which
are designed to primarily facilitate through traffic  flow include a variety of standards to allow for this
function.   Generally, these standards require more cost to implement and include; wider travel lanes,
wider shoulders and clear zones, sophisticated signal timing, provisio ns for turn lanes, and related
features.
A functional classification network provides  a hierarchical system which is  used to channelize traffic
based on the specialized needs of meeting land access and  mobility  requirements.  Local roads facilitate
the land access functions.  The  arterial roads emphasize higher  levels of mobility for through increased
speed and movement.  The  colle ctor roads offer compromise between both functions of mobility and
land access.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 42
A functional classification system divides the right-of-ways in four separate classifications.  Each of
these classifications has a well  defined definition of the function and purpose of each of these right-of-
ways.  TABLE T-16  below define the different right-of-way classifications and their definitions
TABLE T-16      RIGHT-OF-WAY FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION
Definiti ons
Major Arterial
 Minor Arterial
Collector
Local
The primary funct ion of thes e roads is  to move traff ic to destinati ons within Cac he
County an d to provide access in and out of the County.  D uring the peak  hours, these
roads handle most of the t raffic demand within the  County.  These r oads should have
limited access to adjacent land use.
Although the function of these streets is very similar to a major arterial, more
compromises allow for access to adjacent lands.  Generally, these s treets are located
on an 80' right-of-way and may connect to major arterial through i ntersect ions or
directly thro ugh gra dual transitio ns in major arterial.
These roads serve mainly internal neighborhood traffi c movements or connect an
area with the arterial street system.  The intent is to handle through traffic for short
distances.  C ollector streets provide the link to m inor streets an d are gen erally
character ized by two lanes of tra ffic wit h an ample median/t urning lane or  by four
lanes with no parking all owed on streets during peak hours.  Right-of-way needs can
be satisfied b y 66 feet.
The prim ary purp ose of these streets is to pro vide good accessibility to land .  Traffic
volumes should be ve ry low and traffic movement is slow.  On-s treet parking
combined with short lengths  and reduced pavement wi dth yields  essenti ally a one
lane str eet withi n a less t han 60' right -of-way.
Source: US DOT, Federal Highway Administration, 1989
A functional classification system provides a meth od of identifying and standardizing roads right-of-
ways.  This system is currently  being used by the State of Utah and many of the communities to identify
their road systems.   MAP T-6 on page 33 shows the State functional class system for State Routes  and
Highway.
Projected Traffic 2020
The projected traffic on the countywide transportation system (state, county, & local) was developed
by a travel demand model created as part of the Cac he Va lley Corridor Study.  This travel demand
model  was developed by using the existing countywide transportation system  and the addition of four
projects expected to be developed over the next few years.  The projects include the following:
• 1000 South (400 East to 250 East, Providence) - New Collector road
• 2500 North (US-91 to 200 East, No Logan) - New Collector road
• 1000 East (300 South to Summit Drive, Smithfield) - New Collector road
• SR-30 (SR-38 to SR-23, UDOT) - Rehab & Add Passing Lanes 
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 43
The considerable growth assumed for Cache Valley, as well as growth in  through traffic, is projected
to lead to a significant deterioration in service levels on the roadways in the County, given the minimal
nature of assumed improvements for the highway network over the 20 years.  Table T-17   below
compares  the total number of daily vehicle  trips in the County, transit riders, average vehicle trip length,
average vehicle trip time, average vehicle speed, and vehicle hours  of delay for the existing 1995 and
the 2020 projected transportation network.
TABLE T-17 COMPARISON OF 1995 AND 2020 TRAVEL CHARACTERISTICS
Measure 1995 Existing 2020 Projected 95-20 % Change
Total Vehicles
Number of Transit Riders
Avg. Trip Length (miles)
Avg. Trip Time (minutes)
Avg. Speed (mph)
Avg. Delay (minutes)
186,700
3,900
7.4
17.5
25.3
1.3
304,900
6,600
7.3
21.7
20.1
5.7
63.3 %
69.2 %
-1.4 %
23.7 %
-20.4 %
341.0 %
Source: Cache Valley Corridor Study
The impact of futu re growth in traffic will most heavily impact Highway 91 through and north of
downtown Logan, and the north-south streets to the east of highway 91.
EXISTING TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM ISSUE STATEMENT
The impacts on the existing system will mostly be within the Logan  Urbanized Area along Highway 91.
The focus of any improvements should be within the Logan U rbanized  area and along Highway 91.
Projects in the Logan Urbanized  area are under the jurisdictional planning of the Cache Metropolitan
Planning  Organization (CMPO).  A detail discussion of the CMPO and its responsibility will take  place
next chapter of the Transportation Element.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 45
CACHE METROPOLITAN PLANNING ORGANIZATION (CMPO)
Following  the 1990 Census , the Logan area population surpassed the population plateau of 50,000
people.   This led to the creation of a Logan Urbanized Area.  Map T-8  on the following page  shows the
Logan Urbanized Area.  With the creation of an urbanized area comes the  added responsibility of  doing
transportation  planning by  the local jurisdictions within the urbanized area.  This is to be done through
an organization called the  Metropolitan Planning Organization.   In an agreement executed on  October
15, 1992 the Governor desig nated the Cache Metropolitan Planning Organization (CMPO) as the
Metropolitan  Planning Organization for the Logan Urbanized Area.   The Transportation Equity Act  for
the 21st Century (TEA21) and  the corresponding Federal Highway Administration and  Federal Transit
Administration regulations establish transportation planning responsibilities for the CMPO.
The Cache Metropolitan Planning Organization  consists of two bodies,  a legislative body and advisory
committee.   The legislative body, or the Executive Coun cil, incl udes representatives from Cache
County,  Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT), Logan  Transit District (LTD), as well as elected
officials  appointed by the mayors representing the communities of Nibley, Millville, Providence, River
Heights,  Logan, Nort h Lo gan, Hyde Park, and Smithfield.  The advisory committee is called Cache
Technical  Advisory Committee  or CTAC advises the Executive  Council on technical and other matters
as assigned.  The members  of CTAC include local city engineers,  planners, and public works officials
from the same jurisdictions and agencies as the Executive Council.
LONG RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN
The Cache Metropolitan Planning Organization was created in 1992, the E xecutive Council and
Technical  Committee worked to develop the first Lo ng Ra nge Transportation Plan for the Logan
Urbanized Area.   The Organization adopted their first Long Range Transportation  plan in 1997.   The
process  used was a continuing, cooperative, and comprehensive transportation planning  process which
considered  transportati on modes and supports the metropolitan community development and social
goals.  
The Long Range Transportation  Plan provides a list of transportation projects that were intended to
complete  the regional transportation  system.  Projects are included based on their a ranking using a set
of valued criteria.   However, there was little technical analysis used  to justify their direct effect on the
congestion  and safety problems associated with the regions  transportation system. One project as  part
of the first long range transportati on plan was to do a study to identify the location for a new by-pass
road around the Logan  Urbanized Area.  This project became the Cache Valley Corridor Study.   This
study has had a dramatic effect on how long range planning will be accomplished in the future.
CACHE VALLEY CORRIDOR STUDY
The Cache Valley Corridor Study is a  multi-phase study conducted by the Cache Metropolitan  Planning
Organization  and the Utah Department of Transportation along the Highway 89/91corridor from
Wellsville to the Utah-Idaho border.  This study was done in cooperation with Logan City, Logan 
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 46
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 47
MAP T-8
URBANIZED AREA MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 48
BACK OF URBANIZED AREA MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 49
Transit District, Countywide Planning & Development Office, Federal Highway Administration, and 
Federal Transit Administration.
Phase 1, which was completed in May 1999, established the need for additional transportation
improvements along the US 89/91 highway corridor and the feasibility of such improvements.  This
study looked at a full range of potential strategies which included the following:
• Coordinate Traffic Signals
• Intersection Improvements
• Message signs
• Ride share
• Expanded Transit Service 
• Access Management along Corridor
• Widen/Restripe Existing Roadways
• New Corridor Development
• By-passing the Urban Area
• Capacity Improvements on the Existing Road System
The work done for the corridor study included data collection, development of a travel demand
forecasting model, and traffic evaluation.  From the data collected several alternative scenarios,
representing differing levels of investment, were developed for study under projected 2020 land use
conditions.  Table T-18  below is a comparison of the 2020 baseline data with the three different
alternatives modeled.
TABLE T-18 COMPARISON OF 2020 BASELINE AND MODELED ALTERNATIVES
Baseline Alternative A Alternative B Alternative C
Total Vehicles
Number of Transit Riders
Average Trip Length (miles)
Average Trip Time (Minutes)
Average Speed (mph)
Average Delay (Minutes)
304,900
6,600
7.28
21.7
20.1
5.7
299,400
7,000
7.23
19.6
22.1
3.6
299,400
7,000
7.30
17.9
24.4
2.1
299,400
7,000
7.20
19.1
22.6
3.2
Source: Cache Valley Corridor Study
From the above data modeled Alternative B has the most impact on traffic in the year 2020.  This
alternative would cut the number of lane-miles operating at significant congestion levels almost in
half while increasing the percentage of travel operating at free flow or no congestion levels to 85
percent.   Alternative A would also reduce the total vehicle-hours of delay, and yield a 64 percent
reduction over the entire network.
The corridor study also determined the development of a new by-pass highway west of the urban
area would have little or no effect on traffic congestion now or in the future along highway 91
corridor.  It is estimate that only 10 to 15 percent of the traffic passing through the urban area would
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 50
benefit from a new by-pass road.  The remaining 85 percent of the traffic is coming to the urban
area.  The development of the proposed by-pass road would not be cost effective with the limited
funds available to the area or beneficial in solving traffic congestion problems.
Phase 2 of the Cache Valley Corridor Study focused on updating the Cache Metropolitan Planning
Organization’s  2025 Long Range Transportation Plan  using the travel demand model created in
phase 1, instead of continuing to study the need for a western by-pass road.  The emphasis of phase 2
was to identify those transportation improvement projects that will have the most benefit to
improving the traffic congestion problems in the Logan Urbanized Area over the next 25 years.  The
process of updating new long range transportation plan is currently in process.   Table T-19  shows
the “Top 25" projects that were modeled as part of phase 2 of the corridor study.
TABLE T-19 CMPO “TOP 25" PROJECT LIST
Project Cost*
12 -100  East (100  No. to 40 0 No.)
13 -100  West (40 0 So. to 1000 N o.)
18 -140 0 North  (1000 W . to 1200  E.)
19 -1700 South (200 W. Provi dence to Hwy 91 Logan)
28 -400 East (600 So. Logan to 100 No. Providence)
34 -Main Street (400So to 1800 No) New Signal
35 -Main Street  (300No to1400 No) Remove parking/ Restripi ng
44 -M ain Street (4 00 No . to 1400  No.) Intersection Im provem ent.
63 -100 0 North  (1000 W . to 1200  E.)
64 -Parkway Rd (1400 E. Providence to SR-165 Providence)
65 -100 0 West (H wy89 /91 to 2500 No .)
66 -200 /400 (15 00 W. to Main St.)
74 -3200 South (100 No. Pr ovidence to Hwy 89/91 Nibley)
79 -200 East (Mil lvill e to Smithfi eld)
83 -1000/1200 West (Hwy 89/91Logan to 3200 So. Nibl ey)
84 -180 0/1900  North (1 000 W . to 1600  E.)
88 -250 0 North  (1000 W . to 1800  E.)
89 -310 0 North  (1800 E . to 400 W .)
93 -400 East (SR- 238) (600 So. River Heights t o BLVD Logan)
95 -600  South (4 00 E. to 1 000 E.)
101 -60 0 South  (Main S tr. To 120 0 E.)
109 -400 West (2500 No. Logan t o 400 No. Smithfie ld)
118 -3700 North (Airport by-pass  road)
121 -Corridor Study (60 0 E./800 E./1200  E.)
122 -Access Management (Raised median/ driveway consol idation
Logan
Logan
Logan
Providence/Logan
Logan/Providence
Logan
Logan
Logan
Logan
Providence/Logan
Logan
Logan
Providence/Nibley
Multi
Logan/Nibley
North Logan
North Logan
North Logan
River Heights/ Logan
River H eights
Smithfield
Multi
Cache Co/Hyde Park
Multi
Multi
$ 8.76
10.72
8.23
1.15
0.01
0.57
9.75
7.56
13.48
7.46
54.20
7.07
16.95
16.02
12.43
3.59
26.11
8.67
34.36
2.51
* Estimated cost, in Millions of Dollars
Source: CMPO Metropolitan Long-Range Transportation Plan
These projects were evaluated and modeled to determine their impacts on improving the traffic
congestion and safety problems within the Logan Urbanized Area.  It has been determined that the
CMPO will have about 48 million dollars over the next twenty five years.  The list of “Top 25"
projects  amounted to approximately 250 million dollars.  The long range transportation plan focused
on determining the best projects.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 51
FINANCIALLY CONSTRAINED HIGHWAY PROJECTS
In order to receive federal assistance for surface transportation projects within the urbanized area,
the CMPO must have an adopted transportation plan for the urbanized area.  The Transportation
Equity Act for the 21 st Century (TEA21) requires that the Long Range Transportation Plan for the
region be a financially constrained plan.  The purpose of this requirement is to ensure that the
recommended improvements included in the Plan can be realistically implemented within a 20-year
period based on the availability of potential funding sources to meet these needs.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 52
TABLE T-20 CMPO FINAL ROADWAY PROJECT RANKING
Project Project Cost* Segment Cost* Jurisdiction Funded
TSM-1 - Main Str - Replace parking
• (400No to1400 No)
TSM-2 - Main Str. - Signal Coor dination
•  800So to 1800 No
TSM-3 - Main Str. - Intersection
Improvement
• 400 North
• 1400 North
TSM-4 - Maine Str - Acc ess Management
• 800 South to 450 South
• 450 South to 50 South
• 50 South to 450 North
• 450 North to 850 North
• 850 North to 1800 North
BUILD-1 - 100 East
• 100 North (P)  to 700 South
• 700 South to 450 South 
• 450 South to Center Street
• Center Street to 400 North
BUILD-2 - 200 East (South)
• 200 South (M) to 500 North (M)
• 500 North (M) to 300 South (P)
• 300 South (P) to 700 South
• 700 South to 350 South
• 350 South to 400 North
BUILD-3 - 400 East
• 200 South (M) to 500 North (M)
• 500 North (M) to 300 South (P)
• 300 South (P) to 700 South
• 700 South to 300 South
• 300 South to Center Street
• Center/400 E to 400 No/600 East
BUILD-4 - 400 West
• 2500 North to 3700 North
• 3700 North to 4600 North
• 4600 North to 600 South (S)
BUILD-5 - 200 East
• 400 North to 1400 North
• 1400 North to 2500 North
• 2500 North to 3700 North
• 3700 North to 4400 North
• 4400 North to 600 South (S)
• 600 South (S) to 100 North (S)
BUILD-6 - 200/400 North
• 200 N/1500 West to 400 No/Main
$ 0.27
$ 1.00
$ 1.56
$ 4.73
 $ 3.52
$ 16.13
$ 19.75
$ 12.80
$ 22.89
$7.46
$ 0.27
$ 1.00
$ 1.09
0.47
$ 0.36
0.62
0.45
1.09
2.21
$ 1.87
0.91
0.72
0.02
$ 2.64
2.44
3.68
2.10
5.27
$ 2.00
2.02
4.04
3.34
2.92
5.43
$ 6.58
4.65
1.57
$ 5.71
4.66
5.61
2.65
1.86
2.40
$7.46
Logan
Logan/North Logan
Logan
Logan
Logan
Logan
Logan
Logan
Logan/No Logan
Providence
River Heights
Logan
Logan
Millville
Providence
Providence
River Heights
Logan
Millville
Providence
Providence
River Heights
Logan
Logan
No Logan/Hyde Park
Hyde Park
Hyde
Park/Smithfield
Logan
North Logan
No Logan/Hyde Park
Hyde Park
Hyde
Park/Smithfield
Smithfield
Logan
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
* Estimated cost, in Millions of Dollars
(S) - Smithfield, (P) - Providence, (M) - Millville
Source: CMPO Metropolitan Long-Range Transportation Plan
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 53
TRANSIT AND HIGHWAY ENHANCEMENT PROJECTS
Other type’s of transportation projects that must be included in the Cache Metropolitan Planning
Organization’s long range transportation plan are transit and highway enhancement projects.  These
projects either have specific funding for type of projects under ISTEA, or are required to be included
as part of the CMPO’s Long Range Transportation Plan.
Transit Projects
The public transportation system and improvements to it must be included in the CMPO’s Long
Range Transportation plan.  There is specific funding established under TEA21 for public transit,
although other surface transportation funds may also be used for public transportation projects.
Enhancement Projects
Under TEA21, specific funding from the surface transportation funds was established for
enhancement projects.  Projects that can be eligible for funding include the following:
C Facilities for pedestrians and bicycles
C Acquisition of scenic easements and scenic or historic sites
C Scenic or historic highway programs
C Landscaping and scenic beautification
C Historic preservation
C Rehabilitation and operation of historic transpiration building, structures, or facilities
C Preservation of abandoned railway corridors
C Control and removal of outdoor advertising
C Archaeological planning and research
C Mitigation of water pollution due to highway runoff
TABLE T-21  shows the transit and highway enhancement projects currently in the CMPO’s Long
Range Transportation Plan.
TABLE T-21      CMPO  TRANSIT AND HIGHWAY ENHANCEMENT PROJECTS
Project ID Project Descri ption Cost
E-1
E-2
T-3
T-6
T-10
T-2
T-4
T-5
T-8
T-7
T-9
Downtown Bicycle Parki ng
Pedestrian /Bicycle Path
Transit Transfer Fa cility
Transit Oper ating
Replace Elderly/Disabl ed Vehicles
Transit M aintenan ce Facility
Replacement Buses
Expanded Bus Fleet
AVL System
Transit Expanded Operating
Shelters
$        10,000
50,000
2,000,000
33,600,000
1,650,000
3,000,000
7,000,000
4,100,000
150,000
5,270,000
300,000
Source: CMPO Metropolitan Long-Range Transportation Plan
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 54
LONG RANGE PEDESTRIAN/BICYCLE PLAN
The Cache Metropolitan Planning Organization has also just completed a  pedestrian/bicycle plan for
the Logan Urbanized Area.  This planning effort was to develop a comprehensive system of
bikeways, pedestrian facilities, and non-motorized transportation policies that will serve existing and
future users.  The purpose of the pedestrian/bicycle plan is to provide direction for establishing and
implementing bicycle and pedestrian projects, programs and policies for the Logan Urbanized Area.
The need for pedestrian and bicycle facilities were established in two ways: 1) Through a public
involvement process and 2) with demographic analysis.  At the heart of the plan is a single goal with 
supporting objectives.  Each of these objectives are supported by projects and implementation
policies to guide the implementation of the plan.  The following is the goal developed for the
Pedestrian/Bicycle Plan
Goal:
Increase Pedestrian Use And Bicycling as Safe And Efficient Transportation Modes
Objectives:
• Encourage and facilitate pedestrian activity.
• Designate a network of transportation facilities for bicyclists.
• Support programs for bicycle, pedestrian and driver education.
• Pursue diverse funding sources for the implementation of facilities and programs.
• Encourage and promote cooperation among local entities to initiate and continue
implementation of the plan.
From this goal and its objectives a set of implementation projects were developed dealing in three
areas which include projects for pedestrians, bicycles, and marketing and education.  Table T-22  
list the short and long-term implementation recommendations from the CMPO Long Range
Pedestrian/Bicycle Plan .  Those project numbers coded with PBS are the short-term projects of 1 to
5 years.  The projects coded with PBL are long-term projects of 5+ years.
TABLE T-22 SHORT & LONG RANGE TERM IMPLEMENTATION RECOMMENDATIONS
Project # Project Sponsor
PBS-01
PBS-02
PBS-03
PBS-04
PBS-05
PBS-06
PBS-07
PBS-08
PBL-01
PBL-02
PBL-03
PBL-04
PBL-05
PBL-06
Pedestri an/Bicycl e Marketing and Educat ion
Designated On -street Bicyc le Route
Bicycle Racks on Transit Buses
Bicycle Par king at Trans it Stops
CDB P edestrian E nhancements
CDB B icycle En hancem ents
Sidewa lk Conn ectivity Im provem ents
Cache V alley Bon neville Sh oreline Trail
Explore/Adva nce Can al and O ff-street Trail E nhancements
Pedestri an/Bicycl e Marketing and Educat ion
Establish and Designat e Recreati onal Gateways
CDB P edestrian E nhancements
CDB B icycle En hancem ents
Sidewa lk Conn ectivity Im provem ents
Private Orgs/CMPO
Multi-Jurisdict ./CMPO
City of Logan/CVTD
City of Logan/CVTD
Cities /CMPO
Cities /CMPO
Cities /CMPO
Cities/Private
Cities/Private
Private Orgs/CMPO
Cities /CMPO
Cities /CMPO
Cities /CMPO
Cities /CMPO
Source: CMPO Long Range Pedestrian/Bicycle Plan
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 55
CMPO ISSUE STATEMENT
The Cache Metropolitan Planning Organization has began phase 2 of the Cache Valley Corridor
Study.  As discussed earlier the emphasis of this phase will be to develop a new long range
transportation plan for the Logan Urbanized Area based on the use of travel demand model to
identify those projects that will have the most effect on improving the traffic problems in the Logan
Urbanized Area.  The long range transportation plan and programs which are developed by the
CMPO should lead to the development of an integrated intermodal transportation system that
facilitates the efficient, economic movement of people and goods of the Logan Urbanized Area.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 56
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 57
INTERMODEL TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS
A good transportation system provides for  the economic health, convenience,  and safety of the citizenry.
The automobile, as discussed earlier, has effected the design and  layout of our  commu nities today.  We
know that automobiles are a primary source of air-pollution, and one of  the largest contributors to  urban
sprawl.   One of the major components of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21 st Century  (TEA21)
places  new emphasis on facilitating smooth intermodal connections throughout the transportation
system.
An intermo del trans portation system recognizes that the automobile is not the only form of
transport ation.  There are other areas that should be given consideration as to their part of th e tota l
transportation  system.  These other  areas include car  and van pooling, mass transit, bicycling, railroads,
air travel, and walking.
MODE OF TRAVEL
The methods by which individuals travel to their place of work  are called  the modes of travel.  The use
of different modes  show the different methods that  individuals use to travel to work.  Table T-23  shows
the different modes of travel to places of work by the workers 16 years and  old.  The source of this data
is from the 1990 Census Journey to Work  data.
Individuals  will travel to different locations  and for many  different purposes.  Some of these purposes
of travel include work, shopping, personal business, school,  and social/recreational. The methods by
which individuals travel to  these different locations or purposes are called the  modes of travel.  There
is very little data available for the Cache County area based on the mode of travel except  from 1990
Census  Journey to Work data. This data shows the different modes that individuals  use to travel to work.
TABLE T-23 MODE OF TRAVEL (Worker 16 and older)
Mode of Travel
Cache 
County
%
Total
Logan
Urbanized
Area
% of
Total
Non Urban
Areas
% of
Total
Drove Alone
Car & Van Pool
Transit
Motorcycle
Bicycle/Walked
Other
Work at Home
20,795
5162
171
137
2,068
191
1,479
69.3
17.3
0.6
0.5
6.9
0.6
4.9
15,436
3506
143
75
1,730
119
940
51.4
11.7
0.5
0.2
5.8
0.4
3.1
5,359
1656
28
62
328
72
539
17.9
5.6
0.1
0.2
1.1
0.2
1.8
Total 30,003 100.0 21,959 73.2 8,044 26.8
Source: US Census Bureau; 1990 CTPP
The 1990 Census  indicated that there were approximately 30,003 workers 16 years and  older in Cache
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 58
County.   The Logan Urbanized Area makeup 73.2 percent  or about 21,959 of the workers 16 years  and
older.  The non-urbanized areas of Cache County with 8,044 or 26.8  percent  of all workers.  The above
table breaks down the mode of travel into five  different modes of travel and those workers that worked
out of their homes.  The following is a discussion of each of those different areas.
Drove Alone 
The national trend of driving alone is the number one form of commuting for individuals to their place
of work.  This is due primarily  to the increasing ownership of  private cars and increasing movement of
the population from the central city to the suburban area s.  T his mode of travel use of vehicles is
primarily known as a single occupant vehicle or SOV.
The increasing use of single occupant vehicles has and will continue to create problems for the planning
and development of the regions transportation system.  Table T-8  on page 21 shows that  the number of
vehicles  and vehicle miles traveled (VMT) is increasing and  there is little evidence  that this trend  will
be decreasing.
Driving  alone is the largest  mode of travel used by  workers in Cache County.  There are approximately
20,795  workers or 69.3 percent of all workers in  Cache County who drive to  work alone.   Of these 51.4
percent  or 15,436 of them live in the Logan Urbanized area, while  5,359 or 17.9 percent live in the non-
urbanized area.
Carpooling
Carpooling  first appeared on the national scene during the forties, when oil and rubber shortages dictated
a more sparing use of  private vehicles for personal transportation.  After World War II, carpooling was
quickly  dropped as a national policy concern.  Carpooling did not reappear until the mid-seventies, when
oil crises, stimulated by the cartelization of the international oil market under the leadershi p of the
Organization  of Petroleum Exporting Counties  (OPEC), renewed our national interest in alternatives to
driving alone.
In Cache County carpooling is the second largest mode of travel for worker to re ach thei r place of
employment.   There are approximately 5,162 workers who use some  type of carpooling. Two-thirds  of
the workers or 3,506 individuals using carpooling live in the Logan Urbanized Area, and the remaining
1,656 workers live in the non-urban area of Cache County.
Carpooling  is used by about 17.2 percent of all work ers 16 years and older for Cache County.
Nationally,  this mode of travel is smaller at 13.4 percent. Historically, carpooling has been declining
since the 1970s.  This is primarily due to the low retail cost of gas oline  and the increasing trend of
expansion and disbursement of employment out into the suburban areas from the central city areas.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 59
Park and Ride
The use  of park and ride is a major part of carpooling.  Park and ride occurs when an individual wi ll
travel  to a location and leave their vehicle to carpo ol with ano ther individual or a group to their final
destination.   Park and ride locations can either be a formal or  an impromptu site.  A formal park and ride
site is a location where a park and ride lot has been developed for this specific  purpose.  An impromptu
park and ride site can take many varied forms.  These impromptu sites include open areas along right-of-
ways, large parking lots in commercial  centers, church parking  lots, and any area that provide the most
convenience  for the individuals that carpool.   Table T-24 shows the park and ride lots and sites in Cache
County.
TABLE T-24  PARK AND RIDE LOTS CACHE COUNTY
Sites 1981 Type of Parking 1998 Type of Parking
SR-91 & SR-23
SR-91 & SR-101
SR-91 & Greens Corner
SR-23 & SR-30, Petersboro
SR-30 & 600 West, Logan
Fred Meyer, Logan
SR-89 Smith’s Food King
SR-30 & 1000 West, Logan
4
7
11
9
17
19
4
0
Dirt Area on R/W
Roadway shoulder
R/W & Service Station
Dirt Area next to R/W
Dirt Area next to R/W
Parking Lot
Parking Lot
Dirt Area next to R/W
51
0
0
23
70
0
0
31
Paved P/R Lot (99)
Not Used
Not Used
Dirt Area next to R/W
Dirt Area next to R/W
Parking Lot
Parking Lot
Dirt Area next to R/W
Total 71 175
Source: UDOT Commuter Parking Survey, 1981
Nationally,  the number of individuals that use carpooling has declined.  However, in Cache County  this
trend seems to be just the opposite  of the national trends.  There is strong evidence of increased  use of
carpooling  in Cache County.  Based on the in formation i n the table there is approximately a 138.7
percent increase in the number of individuals who are using park and ride.
The increase in the amount of individuals using park and ride is due to a number of major emplo yers
outside  of the Cache County.  Some of these major employers incl ude T hiokol, Nucor Steel, Hill Air
Force  Base, and Autoliv.  There are approximately 1,500 individuals employed by these fi rms
commuting  from the Cache Valley Area.  These companies pay, in comparison  to the local  firms, very
high wages for th e region.  These high wages will tend to offset the long commuting distances that
individuals must travel for employment.
There are a number of impromptu park and ride sites.  Of the 175 vehicles using park  and ride 124 or
71 percent were located in an impromptu  site. These are located along SR 30 at 600 and 1000 West  in
Logan  and at the intersection  SR-30 and SR-23 in Petersboro.  Clearly there is a  demand for a developed
park and ride lot.  The Utah Department  of Transportation has programed and funded the development
of a new park and ride lot on SR-30 at1200 West in Logan.  This park and ride lot  will be developed  as
a paved lot with 123 stalls.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 60
FIGURE T-8 LTD FIXED-ROUTE RIDERSHIP BY FISCAL YEAR
Transit
Transit  as of the 1990 Census was one of the least  used modes of  travel.  The 1990 Census showed only
169 workers or less than 1 percent use  transit as a mode  of travel to work.  The number of workers using
transit  was a very small amount compared to the other modes of travel.  This was due primarily  to the
fact there was only limited transit available in Cache County.  Logan City began providing tra nsit
service through the Logan Transit District in April 1992.
Logan Transit District
The Logan Transit District (LTD) operates three transit services: fixed-route service, an express  service
between  the Transit Center and the Utah State University Campus, and a call-a-ride service specifically
for elderly and disable passengers.  All services operate only within the Logan City limits.
Approximately  1,044,303 one-way passenger-trips were carried on the LTD in fiscal year 1996-97.   As
Figure  T-8 shows the ridership has increased steadily since LTD started service in  1992.  There was a
2.8 percent increase after the first year, and 8.7 percent increase after the second year, and  a 3.7 percent
increase  is projected for fiscal  year 1995/96.  The fixed-route service has consistently comprised more
than 90 percent of total annual ridership since LTD began service.
Source: Logan Urbanized Area Short Range Transit Plan Study, June 1996
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 61
Utah State University
Utah State University operates the “Aggie Shuttle” which consists of three fixed-routes on the Utah State
University  campus.  The Campus Loop provides  service along  1000 North, 800 East, 700 North, 1200
East, and 1100 North.   The Stadium Express provides north/south service along 800  East between the
USU Romney Stadium and 700 North.  The Housing Loop provides  north/south service between 700
North and 1100 North and east /west service on 1100 North and 1000  North.  Service is  provided on 30-
minute  headways Monday through Friday from 7:00 a.m. to  9:00 p.m., free of charge.  Students make
up 95 percent of the passengers, while staff and faculty comprise the remaining 5 percent.
Cache County Senior Citizen Center
The Cache County Senior Citizen Center provides  demand-response and subscription service to persons
60 years of age or older.  Transportation service is provided within the City  of Logan on  Mondays thru
Fridays  and countywide Wednesday and Fridays.  Service is  provided between 9:30 a.m.  and 4:30 p.m..
Transportation  is prima rily provided to and from the Senior Center for senior meals, and to and from
shoppi ng and docto rs’ appointments.  This transit service is provided to senior citizens 60 years and
older at no cost.  Table T-25  on t he following page below shows the passenger trips, vehicle miles
traveled, and average trip length.
TABLE T-25 PASSENGER TRIPS AND VEHICLE MILES
1994 1995 1996 1997
One-way Passenger Tr ips
Vehicle Miles
Average Trip Length/Passenger
7,813
36,430
4.7
9,537
33,238
3.5
8,443
30,048
3.6
8,669
28,858
3.3
The Cache County  Senior Center’s vehicle fleet consists of a 1987 Ford 15-passenger non wheelchair-
accessible  van, a 1989 Dodge 15-passenger  non wheelchair-accessible van, and  a 1994 nine-passenger
wheelchai r accessible bus.  Three part-time employees and three volunteers make up Cache Co unty
Senior Center’s driver roster.
Other Services
In addition to the above-mentioned transit services there are a number of other groups which provide
transit  service.  These groups include, S unshi ne Terrace, Cache Employment and Training Center,
Options  for Independence, Bear River Health, and Cache County School District.  These transit services
are small but do provide transit services for the needs of special groups.
Transit Demand
There  is currently  in Cache County  an increasing demand for transit services.  The total transit demand
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 62
in the Cache Valley area was estimated to equal  2,928,935 one-way passenger-trips per year in 1995.
This demand is forecasted to rise with p opulation growth to 3,098,269 (5.8 percent) by 2001.  The
existing transit services are only meeting about 33 percent of the transit demand in the Cache Valley.
Many residents of the outlaying Cache Valley communities have expressed the desire and demonstrated
the need for  transit services into Logan. Essentially none of the demand for transit services for work,
college  or non-program trips are currently met outside of Logan City.  Trips to and  from social service
programs are the largest element of unmet need, with 88 percent of potential unmet demand.
The Logan Urba nized Ar ea Short Range Transit Study  made an analysis of potential alternatives to
provide  transit  services outside of the Logan Transit District service area.  The first recommend  of the
study was to create a Transit District to provide transit service  in the remainder of Cache Valley.  The
transit  district would provide three t ypes of transit services.  These transit services would include the
following:
• Develop  two commuter bus routes between Richmond  and Loga n and between Hyrum and
Logan.
• Contract  with Logan Transit District to expand transit services into North Logan and Riv er
Heights.  
• Develop  a Para-transit service to provide for the  transit needs of individuals with disabilities that
qualify under the Americans with Disabilities Act.
Bicycled or Walked
The use of bicycles and walking was the third largest mode of travel to work.  Together they represented
approximately  6.9 percent or 2,068 workers 16  years and older.  This is just below the national average
of 7.9 percent total trips.  Most of the bicycling and walking trips in Cache County were located in  the
Logan  Urbanized Area where  5.8 percent or  1,730 individuals either walked or bicycled to their place
of work.  Only 1.1 percent or 328 use this mode of travel outsid e of the Logan Urbanized Areas. The
National  Bicycling and Walking Study  would like to increase  the current percentage to 15.8% of  total
trips made by bicycling and walking.
Bicycles  and walking are an i mportant part of a functional intermodal transportation system.  It is
important  to meet the demand and need of people biki ng and wa lking to work, functioning within an
intermodal  transportation system (accessing transit,  for example),  biking or walking to access schools,
businesses  or community facilities.   A secondary focus is  providing facilities for people who bike  and
walk for recreational and  fitness and providing connections to recreational trails.  Many paths or  trails
used primarily for recreational purposes do have a transportation f unction or linkage to the State
trans portation system.
Walkways  and bikeways between businesses, comm ercial  centers, and activity centers within and
urbanized  area or rural towns can almost eliminate the  need for automobiles for short trips, lunch-hour
excursions,  conducting busin ess, and reduce the need for short-term and employee parking facilities.
Good facilities legitimize walking and biki ng as mode s of transportation by making these alternative
reliable  and convenient, and by  reducing hazards that is sometimes associated  with “sharing the road.”
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 63
The National  Bicycling and Walking Study  concluded that many opportunities exist for replacing
automobile  trips with walking  and bicycling trips.  The Study recommends  the development of  action
plans for State and Local governments.  These action plans should include the following items:
• Organize a bicyclist/pedestrian program;
• Plan and construct needed facilities;
• Promote bicycling and walking;
• Educate bicyclist, pedestrians, and the public;
• Enforce laws and regulation.
Other Modes of Travel
There  are other modes of travel that are not included in the above g roupings.  These other modes of
travel accounted for about 1.1 percent or 330 workers.  
Work at Home
There  are three groups that characterize individuals  that are working  at home.  The first group involves
the suburban professional who is technic ally oriented, representing the so-called, and long awaited,
technical  revolution.  The second group  involves a metropolitan resident who is working  at a job that
is home-based by definition,  such as a family day care  provider.  The third group involves a rural person
who is engaged in agriculture.
Those engaged in farming nation ally constitute almost 17 percent of those that work at home.  The
number  of individuals  that are working out of their home has increased  nationally from 2.3 percent in
1960 to about 3.0 percent in 1990.  This pattern may reflect factors such as ‘telecommuting’, and  the
rise of  service oriented jobs, both of which are consistent with working at home.  The  person working
at home is heavily oriented to home ownership.
In Cache County  the individual that works at home is the slightly higher than the national average at 4.9
percent.   This is probably due  to the larger number of individuals within Cache County that fall into the
third group who are engaged in agriculture.
RAILROADS
Approximately  43 miles of Union Pacific Railroad branch line extends from Cache Junction to the Idaho
State line where it continues to  Preston.  One l ocal trains run daily on this line distributing or
redistributing  raw materials  and finished products to various commercial industries throughout Cache
Valley.
Forty to sixty cars carrying a monthly average of 55  tons per car terminate in Cache County.  At Cache
Junction, the  120 to 140 cars that originate in Cache County hook up to Union Pacific trains that head
southward  through  Ogden or northward through Pocatello on the  main line.  Approximately 16 trains
a day travel the 17.4 miles of main line that extends through  Cache County.  The  above figures indicate
that approximately 33 percent more  materials are exported by rail from Cache County than  are imported.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 64
The safety between rail and motor vehicle traffic is a major issue  that should be taken into consideration.
 Whenever these two  forms of transportation come in contact, the  potential for dangerous accidents may
occur.   Table T-26  shows the different railroad-street  crossing types with the relative hazard associated
with each type.
TABLE T-26 RAILROAD CROSSING AND RELATIVE HAZARD
TYPE OF CROSSING RELATIVE HAZARD
Crossbucks   
   Stop Signs
   Wigwags
   Flashing Lights
   Gated
1.00
0.58
0.34
0.20
0.11
SOURCE: Wasatch Front Re gional Council
Based on the above table,  the gated crossing is 10 times safer than the crossbuck crossing.   However,
a gated crossing will at times restrict the flow of traffic.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 65
MAP T-9
RAILROAD MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 66
BACK RAILROAD MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 67
AIRPORTS
Almost  every complaint imposed against an airport and based on either safety concerns or  airport noise
can be attributed to poor, inadequate,  or nonexistent land use planning and zoning of property in close
proximity  to the airport.  Residential encroachment on the airport  places the most stress on an airport.
Good land use and development plans, based on an  in-depth compatibility study, are among  the most
potent  and affordable  ways to protect an airport while still allowing development near an airport.  This
process  could save the local taxpayers many dollars by avoiding the purchase  of additio nal land to
protect the airport
Airports  play an important part of the County’s intermodel transportation system. There are two airports
of importance to Cache County, the  Logan-Cache and Salt Lake International.  These two airports
provide  the aviation needs of the region.  Below  is a description  of these airports and the services they
provide.
SALT LAKE INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
 Salt Lake International Airport, owned by the  Salt Lake City Corporation  and operated by the Salt Lake
City Airport Authority.  Salt Lake City  International  Airport is presently one of the fastest growing large
hub airports in the country.  The airport is the only major air carrier airport in the State of Utah and
serves Utah, Southern Idaho and Western Wyoming.  Salt Lake Internatio nal Airport is the major
regional  airport for air carriers and business activities.  Its main function is to serve the commercial side
of aviation.  The Salt Lake City International Airport will continue to accommodate the activities  of the
Utah Air National Guard, the Army Reserve, and general aviation aircraft.
LOGAN-CACHE AIRPORT
The Logan-Cache  Airport  is located in central Cache County, Utah, approximately five miles north of
Logan  City.  Logan city is located approximately 80 miles north  of Salt Lake City, Utah.  Logan-Cache
Airport  serves as a major flight training facility, supports a moderate level of recreational flying, and
has recently received a substantial increase in aviation demand for business jet operations.  The Logan-
Cache  Airport is a non-towered facility. Map T-10  on the following  page shows a detailed map  of the
Logan-Cache Airport.
Based Aircraft
There  are currently eighty-eight aircraft ba sed at Lo gan-Cache Airport.  Based aircraft users fall into
three primary categories: 1) Utah  State University Flight Training Program, 2) Business aircraft,  and 3)
Private individuals.
Business  growth within the Logan area has resulted in increased use of the airport by business je t
aircraft.   The six business jets based at the airport account for 6.8% of the based aircraft fleet mix,
exceeding  the national fleet average of 2.4%.  More than eighty transient business jets have been logged
at the airport.  Eleven other aircraft are registered to local businesses and are  used primarily for itinerant
flights to other airports.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 68
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 69
MAP T-10
LOGAN-CACHE AIRPORT MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 70
BACK OF AIRPORT MAP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 71
Utah State University provides an extensiv e flight training program for fixed wing airplanes and
helicopters.  The program has over 120 students enrolled, eight si ngle-engine aircraft, two-twin
engine aircraft, and six helicopters.  Utah State University fli ghts are primarily local training,
practice approaches, and touch-and-goes.
The local fixed base operator, Logan Air Services, has nine registered aircraft which are available
for rental or charter flights.  The remaining aircraft are registered to private ind ividuals.  Most of
these aircraft are stored in the 37 clear span hangars located south of the main parking apron.  Table
T-27  shows the existing and projected based aircraft by type located at the Logan- Cache Airport.
TABLE T-27 EXISTING AND PROJECTED BASED AIRCRAFT BY TYPE
Aircraft 1990 1996 2001 2006 2011 2016
Single Eng.
Multi Eng Piston
Multi Eng
Turbine
Jet
Helicopter
Other
na
na
na
na
na
na
65
4
1
6
8
4
74
4
2
7
6
4
82
5
2
7
6
4
90
5
2
8
7
5
98
6
2
9
7
5
Total 57 88 96 106 117 127
Source: Logan-Cache Airport Layout Plan, 1997
Aviation Activity
Since 1990 ther e has been a surge in business jet operations at the airport.  As a result, itinerant
operations at Logan-Cache Airport trend towards the regional average.  Table T-28 below shows
the existing and projected aircraft Annual Operations.
TABLE T-28 EXISTING AND PROJECTED AIRCRAFT ANNUAL OPERATIONS
Operations 1990 1996 2001 2006 2011 2016
Local
Itinerant
Instrument
29,390
3,204
0
23,650
18,480
8,800
26,100
20,500
9,600
28,900
22,700
10,600
31,800
22,700
11,700
34,400
27,100
12,700
Total 32,594 42,130 46,600 51,600 56,800 61,500
Source: Logan-Cache Airport Layout Plan, 1997
Total operations per based aircraft at extensive training a irports in the region range from 1200 to
over 3700.  It is estimated that total operations per based training and charted aircraft at Logan are
in the 850 to 950 range.  Total operations per based private aircraft at Logan are estimated at 360.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 72
The based aircraft fleet mix will continue to exceed national percentages for business jet aircraft, and
will trend towards national averages for all other aircraft types.
Current Land Use Plans and Zoning
The Logan-Cache Airport is currently located entirely within Logan City Boundaries. Logan City
current General Plan, adopted in 1995 and official Zoning map, adopted March 1996 identifies the
airport and recommends the following land development guidelines.
Land Development Guidelines
C Future airport property: Acquire sufficient land to construct airf ield im provements,
secure runway  protection zones and contain the extent possible noise impacts of 65 Ldn
or greater.
C Runway protection zones: Con tain within airport property boundaries, no structures
permitted.
C Approach areas: Permit only compatible development compliance with the City of Logan
and Cache County permit system and airport safety zone policies an d structure height
limitations to conform to Federal Aviation Regulation (FAR)  Part 77 criteria.
C Noise contours (65 Ldn or greater): Preclude noise sensitive uses i.e. schools, churches,
hospitals and single family homes.
C Airport influence area/traffic pattern airspace: Review all Develo pment projects for
compatibility and compliance with Federal Aviation Regulation (FAR) Part 77 and
county land use policies which may exist.  Permitted development will require public
disclosure to prospective buyers and noted on all plats rega rding air port activity, and
granting of aviation easements with restrictive provisions.
The proposed extension of Runway 17/35 will exte nd the airpo rt boundary beyond the current
municipal boundary of Logan City .  This new area of the Logan-Cache Airport will fall under the
jurisdiciton of Cache County’s Land Use Ordinance.  The current zoning for the extension will fall
within area zoned as Agriculture.  The Cache Cou nty Lan d Use Ordinance also has an Airport
Hazard Zone (AH) that covers the airport.  Below is the purpose of the Airport Hazard Zone:
9-1 Purpose : To prevent or minimiz e airport hazards by providing a clear and
unobstructed area around the existing airport facility as designated in the Logan-
Cache Airport Master Plan.
The Land Use Element of Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan, adopted Jan 1998, recognizes
the airport as being an important facility to the County. The implementation policies of the Land Use
Element makes the following recommendation for the Logan-Cache Airport
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 73
 Follow Logan-Cache Airport Master Plan:  
The Logan-Cache Airport serves as a general aviation airport and is classified as a
General Utility airport by the FAA.  The Logan-Cache Airport is jointly owned and
operated by Cache County and Logan City.  The Logan-Cache Airport Authority
supervises the operations of the airpor t.  Memb ers of the Logan-Cache Airport
Authority are appointed by both Logan City and Cache County.  The service area for
the Logan-Cache airport consists of Utah’s Cache and Rich Counties and portions
of Utah’s Box  Elder County and Idaho’s Franklin and Bear Lake Counties.
Implementation Recommendations:
C Keep the Logan-Cache Airport Master Plan updated
C Implement the recommendations of the Airport Layout Plan
C Encourage compatible land use within close proximity to the airport.
C Maintain a nd enlarge the Airport Hazard Zones and Runway Protection
Zones as the Logan-Cache Airport expands for safety and protection reasons.
Capital Improvement Plan
A program of recommended airport development for Logan-Cache Airport has been formulated to
guide the sponsor in the systematic growth of the airport, and to aid the Fede ral Aviat ion
Administration, State Department of Transportation, and Logan-Cache County Airport authority in
allocating funding over the planning period. The airport development projects were broken down
into three phases and programmed over a twenty year period.  Phase I is short term  development
occurring through the year 2001.  Phase II is airport development in the intermediate five year time
frame from 2002 to 2006.  Phase III is long term development from 2007 through 2016.  This three
phase program of airport development is known as the Capital Improvement Program (CIP), and
Table T-29 on the following page  outlined the CIP.  One of the primary capital improvement
projects is the proposed extension of Runway 17/35 by 3,470 feet This extension will accommodate
larger, faster aircraft now utilizing the airport.  This  extension will be located entirely within the
unincorporated Cache County and require the County to development a set of  land use development
guidelines to deal with new development around the airport.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 74
TABLE T-29 LOGAN-CACHE AIRPORT CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN
Year & Description Total Cost
Phase I
1 Environmental Assessment
1 Land Acquisition for RWY 17/35 extension &  Runway Protection Zones
2 Extend RWY 17/35 by 3,470 feet to the north (Inc. HIRLs, REILs, PAPIs, ODALs & signs)
2 Extend Parallel Taxiway B by 3,470 feet, add one  exit taxiway
2 Overlay existing RWY 17/35
2 Relocate Runway 17 threshold by 350 feet to the north
2 Upgarde RWY 17/35
2 Install security fenci ng around Runway/taxiway e xtension
3 Install 500'  sewer line t o NW Executive Hanger Row
3 Repair Taxiway B failures & over lay Taxiway B
3 Expand Aircraft parking Apron 2 by 7000 Sq Yards
3 Overlay aircraft parki ng Apron 1
3 Overlay Taxiway A
3 Construct 500' access road to NW Execut ive Hanger row
4 Establish Precision Instrument Approach (GPS)
4 Remark RWY 17/35 with Preci sion Instr. Markings
5 Extend taxi lanes within Clear Span Hanger area
5 Install six Clear Span Hangers
Phase II
6 Crack & Fog seal RWY 10/28
6 Pave fuel farm access road
9 Crack & Fog seal ai rport pavements (except RWY10/28)
10 Overlay Taxiway C
10 Develop Industrial Park Infrastructure (1000' road/water/sewer/electric)
Phase III
12 Install RWY 10/28 li ghting, Taxiway C retroflect ors, & signs
15 Extend taxi lanes with Clear Span Hanger area
15 Install ten Clear Span Hangers
15 Overlay Taxiway B
16 Expand aircraf t Parking Apron 2 by 3000 sq yards
17 Crack & Fog seal airport pavements
18 Overlay RWY 17/35
19 Overlay aircraft aprons
20 Develop industrial park infrastructure (1,000' road/water/sewer/el ectric)
$       70,000
257,000
2,000,000
900,000
1,100,000
40,000
125,000
84,000
18,000
420,000
300,000
415,000
78,000
38,000
$TBD
140,000
28,000
215,000
135,000
38,000
640,000
378,000
150,000
215,000
47,000
358,000
318,000
130,000
775,000
1,160,000
312,000
150,000
Total  (20 Year Planni ng Period) $18,722,940
Source: Logan-Cache Airport Layout Plan (APL), 1997
INTERMODEL TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 75
TRANSPORTATION PROJECTS - 2000 TO 2020
The Transportation Element of the Countywide Comprehensive Plan will recommend road way
improvements  to help meet the transportation needs of the Cache County  through 2025.  These roadway
improvements  include road improvement projects or new roads and projects called Transportation
System  Management or TSM proje cts. The road improvement projects address long term congestion
mitigation  needs through 2025.  The TSM projects address short-range needs for  preserving the capacity
of existing facilities, increasing traffic safety, and reducing travel delays. 
The identified transportati on projects will provide the focus for available funding to complete those
projects  that will provide the most benefit to overall transportation systems.  Because the transportation
system is under separate jurisdictional responsibility the coordination of the different transportation
projects become very critical in maintaining viability of the transportation network. 
Table T-30 and Map T-11  on the following pages  show the proposed transportation projects that are
currently  being considered for development in Cache County.  This table shows the grouping of projects
by the jurisdictional responsibility for the funding and development.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 76
TABLE T-30 PROJECTS (2001 TO 2005)
PROJECT AND SEGMENT LIMITS CONCEPT JURISDICTION YEAR COST
Cache Metropolitan Planning Organization
  1000 East - Mountain Road  to 800 South
  Center Str - 400 East to Mountain Road
  Main Str - 400 North to1400 North
  Main Str - 800 South to 1800 North
  Main Str - 400 North
  Main Str - 1400 North
  100 East  - 700 South to 450 South
  400 East - Center/400 E to 400 No/600 East
  200 East - 1400 North to 2500 North
  200 East - 3700 North to 4400 North
Utah Department of Transportation
  1800 North 800 East,  North Logan
  Logan Canyon, Tony Grove to Franklin Basin
  Smithfield Canal NE Side of North Logan
  400 West Sidewalk Project, Hyrum
  SR-165, Hyrum to Nibley
  Logan Canyon, Tony Grove to Franklin Basin
  Smithfield City Limits to Idaho State Line
  600 West 1400 North,  Logan
  SR-30, 1200 West to Main Street, Logan
  SR-30, 1200 West Logan to SR 23
  Logan Canyon; Summit to Garden City
 
Other Projects to Consider
 4400 S - SR-165 to SR-91/89
 4200 North - 2400 West to SR-91
Improve, Widen, Sidewalk
Improve, Widen, Sidewalk
Replace parking
Signal Coordination 
Intersection Improvement
Intersection Improvement
New Construction
New Construction
New Construction
New Construction
Spot Improvements, turning lanes
Recon & Replace Upper Twin Bridge
Bridge Replacement
Sidewalk Project
Reconstruct, Widen to Four Lanes
Reconstruction
Reconstruct & Widen to Four Lanes
Railroad Crossing Improve ments
Reconstruct to 40' width
Widening & resurfacing
Reconstruction & widen
New Construction
Reconstruct & widen 
Cache/RH/Logan/Prov
Logan
Logan
Logan/No Logan
Logan
Logan
River Heights
Logan
No Logan
Hyde Park
UDOT
UDOT
UDOT
UDOT
UDOT
UDOT
UDOT
UDOT
UDOT
UDOT
UDOT
County
County
2000
2000
2001
2002
2001
2001
2002
2004 - 05
2004 - 05
2004 - 05
2001
2001
2001
2001
2002
2002
2003
CD*
CD
CD
CD
$    686,475
386,142
266,000
1,200,000
 1,308,134
739,581
1,091,304
5,780,000
4,900,000
3,310,000
 
 $     260,000
8,450,000
350,000
134,000
4,200,00
2,500,00
30,000,000
268,154
8,000,000
14,000,000
18,000,000
CD - Concept Developme nt (FY - 2004 & 2005)
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 77
MAP T-11
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 78
BACK 
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 79
GOALS AND STRATEGIES
GOAL 1: Develop convenient alternative modes of transportation
Objectives:
C Enhance mobility of citizens
C Provide alternatives in bad weather
C Encourage pedestrian friendly land use development
C Encourage economic development by getting people to their jobs
C Reduce stress
Strategies:
1.1 Develop inter-county bus system
1.2 Provide financial incentives to maximize mass transit
1.3 Develop parkways for pedestrians and other modes of transportation
1.4 Urban development is reviewed by transit developers
1.5 Look at expanding alternative modes throughout the County
1.6 Encourage small business development
1.7 Expand countywide transit system through a countywide referendum
1.8 Involve school districts in alternative modes of transportation
GOAL 2: Control urban sprawl through prudent countywide land use planning
Objectives:
C Develop travel demand management specifications
C Encourage higher density development in residential, commercial, and industrial areas while
providing for safety and essential services
C Reduce/prevent congestion on main roads
C Protect agricultural areas, open spaces, stream corridors and wildlife
C Seek alternative funding sources to maintain the transportation system (i.e., impact fees)
Strategies:
2.1 Establish urban growth boundaries limiting services outside the boundaries (i.e., roads)
2.2 Develop an Access Management Plan limiting access on major roads
2.3 Develop a Development Plan for major roads (i.e. US89-91, 165, 30 etc.)
2.4 Encourage standards along major roads
2.5 Encourage neighborhood commercial development
2.6 Develop mass transit plans, pedestrian rights of ways, etc.
2.7 Develop standard cross-section for all functional classifications of roads
2.8 Develop interblock development policies and standards encouraging responsible
development
2.9 Encourage development on major roads
2.10 Limit development on private roads
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 80
GOAL 3: Safety
Objectives:
C Provide alternative modes of transportation  (bike paths, mass transit, express buses, walking
paths, train-light rail, etc.)
C Reduce single occupancy vehicles (SOV)
C Reduce existing and future accesses to main corridors
C Do better access management on main roads
C Develop countywide development standard
C Develop better traffic light management
C Educate county residents
Strategies:
3.1 Never become a non-attainment area
3.2 Develop standard ordinances for access management
3.3 Reduce the number of stops/stop lights and synchronize lights
3.4 Reduce the number of curb cuts
3.5 Create acceleration and deceleration lanes
3.6 Encourage park and ride
3.7 Encourage the development of a rural transit system
3.8 Develop a marketing plan for a countywide transportation plan
3.9 Encourage express buses
GOAL 4: Develop a countywide transportation plan/system
Objectives:
C Integrate the countywide transportation plan with the CMPO plan
C Develop a marketing, education, and cooperative strategy to implement the plan
C Develop a realistic priority process to match current revenues
C Develop alternative funding mechanisms to build and maintain the system
C Develop a transportation system that functions to move people easily, quickly, safely and
economically to their destinations
C Consider multiple forms of transportation (cars, buses, light rail, bicycles, pedestrian, etc.)
C Develop an implementation strategy
C Recognize the plan as a regional system that is bigger than the cities and needs to be
coordinated with the cities, county, state, surrounding states and the national system
Strategies:
4.1 Require countywide consistency and build on the CMPO plan
4.2 Involve all communities in the development and implementation through public input and
cooperation
4.3 Develop measures to evaluate projects for prioritization
4.4 Identify and encourage all levels of government to provide funding and funding mechanisms
4.5 Transportation is a reciprocal land use and should not drive other land uses, it should be
subservient
4.6 Base local ordinances on the plan
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 81
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 81
TRANSPORTATION ELEMENT - APPENDIX
EXISTING TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES
Congestion Management
A congestion  management system is used to reduce  congestion on the existing transportation facilities.
Some examples of projects done under a congestion management system  are signal coordination,  park
and ride lots, ridesharing and alternative transportation modes.  In  addition to these project the  use of
access  management and corridor preservation techniques along existing and future transport ation
facilities help to reduce congestion within the transportation system.
Access Management
Access  management is the planning, design and implementation of land  use and transportation strategies
that control the flow of traffic between the road and surrounding  land.  It app lies traffic engineering
principles to the location, design and operation  of access drives serving activities along a highway.  It
evaluates the suitability of  providing access to a given road, as well as the suitability  of a site for land
development.   It addresses the basic questions–when and where access should be located, how it should
be designed, and the procedures needed to administer the program.  I n broad context, access
management  is resource’s management, since  it is a way to anticipate  and prevent safety problems and
congestion.
Access management can bring significant benefits to the community, such as: 
• Postponing or preventing costly highway improvements                                                            
• Improving safety conditions along highways 
• Reducing congestion and delays 
• Providing property owners with safe access to highways 
• Promoting desirable land use patterns 
• Making pedestrian and bicycle travel safer 
Streets  and highways are an important  resource and represent a major  public investment that should be
preserved.   Poorly coordinated circulation systems force more trips onto t he arterial roadways.  This
results  in multiple traffic conflicts, increased congestion  and a decline in  traffic and pedestrian safety.
This generates a demand for roadway improvement  and the cycle begins again.  Failure to address  the
congestion  and safety problems ultimately leads  to a deterioration in the abutting properties.  These are
not the inevitable of development and  urban growth.  Rather, they are symptoms of inadequate attention
to access management to preserve the integrity of the transportation system.
Some of the symptoms of poor access management include the following items:
• High crash rates
• Poor traffic flow and congestion
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 82
• Numerous brake light activations by drivers in the through lanes
• Unsightly strip development
• Neighbors disrupted by through traffic
• Using a local street parallel to the overburdened “arterial” to make a one-way pair
• Pressures to widen an existing street or build a bypass
• Bypass routes as congested as the roadways they were built to relieve
• A decrease in property values
From a land develop ment p erspective, private investment in the abutting land development is
jeopardized  as traffic problems cause a d ecline in commercial and residential property values.  The
Urban Land Institutes’s Shopping Center Development Handb ook warne d that poorly designed
entrances  and exits not only present a traffic hazard, but also  cause congestion that can create  a negative
image of the center.
By preserving the quality of traffic service, access management helps transportation and redu ces the
need for expensive improvements.  Studies show poor spacing, design and location of  driveways could
reduce  average travel speed.  Improvements in access c ould incr ease roadway capacity substantially.
Some of the ways we do access management include the following:
• Non-traversable medians
• Auxiliary lanes
• Signal spacing
• Driveway location and design
• Driveway spacing
• Corner clearance
• Joint & cross access
• Reverse frontage
Since varying functions of streets are designed to  provide varying levels of access to  adjacent land uses,
it follows  that land -use planning must be integrated with highway planning.  The purpose of this
integration  is to allow land uses under a certain set of access control  parameters  which both facilitate
land access and land development  and also facilitate the adjacent street function.  It is clear that a proper
balance of the needs for street function and the need for land access can enhance the goals of both.
Corridor Preservation
Corridor  preservation is a coordinated application  of various measures to obtain control of or  otherwise
protect,  the right-of-way for an existing or planned transportation  facility, so that  the right-of-way and
other  need ed land can be provided.  The ultimate objective is to provide a transportation system t hat
affords a reasonable level of service for rapidly growing  metropolitan areas.  In order to do this, we must
make a closer tie between land development proposals and transportation investments thro ugh th e
integration of transportation planning and project development.
Corridor  preservation is a concept utilizing the coordinated application of various measures to obtain
control  of or otherwise protect the ri ght of way for a planned transportation facility.  Corridor
preservation  techniques  s hould be applied as early as possible after the transportation corridor is
identified either along a new alignment, or along an existing facility to:
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 83
• Prevent inconsistent development;
• Minimize or avoid environmental, social and economic impacts;
• Reduce displacement;
• Prevent the foreclosure of desirable location options;
• Allow for the orderly assessment of impacts;
• Permit orderly project development;  
• Reduce cost
The preservation of transportation corridors is a critical issue as the American A ssoci ation of State
Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO) predicts that surface travel demand nationally will
double  by the year 2020.  There will be a n i ncreasing need to identify and protect potential
transportation corridors.
Techniques  to preserving transportation corridor s have certain aspects that should be given consideration
in determining the best manner in which to protect the corridor.  These include the following areas of
legal issues, participation of decision-makers, environmental issues, and alter native techniques that
could be use to for cor ridor preservation.  As growth takes place the preservation of transportation
corridors  become more and more a critical issue.  Questions should be asked  concerning the value of
preserving any corridor.
• How important will the corridor(s) be in the tran sportation s ystem needed to serve the area's
development pattern in the early years of the twenty-first century?
• Will the land "get-away" if nothing is do ne to prev ent encroachment before full construction
funding becomes available?
• If encroachment in the potential alignment  does occur, what options will be  foreclosed?  What
environmental, economic, and social consequences may result?
• Is development in the corridor still sufficiently modest that early protective action can make a
difference?
• Will the affected communities do their share to help?
Corridor  preservation is an important component in a transportation managemen t syst em.  Corridors
must  be r eserved for needed transportation facilities as much as 20 years in advance of construction.
Early protection of transportation  corridors has both  a social and economic benefit to local society.  By
doing nothing there is an opportunity cost  to the society.  Preservation of  corridors is essential in order
to prevent increases in land prices prior to the time land within the corridor is developed.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 84
ANNUAL AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC VOLUMES
STATE ROUTE 23 - AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC
Description Mileage
1995
AADT
1996
AADT
1997
AADT
2020
AADT
Percent
Change
Junction SR 91
Junction SR 101 in Wellsville
North Incorporated Limits Wellsville
South Incorporated Limits Mendon
North Incorporated Limits Mendon
Junction SR 30
South Incorporated Limits Newton
Junction SR 142 in Newton
East Incorporated Limits Newton
Junction SR 218
Southern Incorporated Limits Trenton
Junction SR 142 in Trenton
North Inc. Limits Trenton & South Inc. Limits Cornish
Junction SR 61 in Cornish - Uta h - Idaho State Line
1.55
0.89
3.70
2.35
1.33
7.51
0.57
0.98
0.15
2.96
2.08
1.56
2.40
1.60
750
1590
1010
1490
1460
1615
1055
1415
1415
1075
1075
1555
1465
1000
775
1190
800
1100
915
1300
1020
1415
1415
1315
1315
1610
1465
855
805
1240
835
1145
955
1355
1060
1475
1475
1370
1370
1675
1525
890
895
2991
2991
3691
3094
1604
1387
2726
5476
1234
1234
3244
2521
1684
28.2
15.2
18.8
28.4
21.7
27.7
26.3
STATE ROUTE 3O - AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC
Description Mileage
1995
AADT
1996
AADT
1997
AADT
2020
AADT
Percent
Change
Box Elder - Cache County Line
Junction SR 23
Logan West Urbanized Boundary
West Incorporated limits Logan - SR 91
2.83
4.11
2.27
1.27
5260
6010
8600
8600
5260
6465
8690
8690
5470
6720
8900
8900
9844
8101
9137
14742
80.4
64.2
135.0
79.5
STATE ROUTE 61 - AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC
Description Mileage
1995
AADT
1996
AADT
1997 
AADT
2020
AADT
Percent
Change
Junction SR 23
East Incorporated Limits Cornish
West Incorporated Limits Lewiston - SR 91
0.73
0.25
6.26
1355
1780
1890
1190
1660
1660
1240
1725
1725
1473
1315
54.9
50.2
59.5
STATE ROUTE 101 - AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC
Description Mileage
1995
AADT
1996
AADT
1997 
AADT
2020
AADT
Percent
Change
Junction SR 23 in Wellsville
Junction SR 91
East Incorporated Limits Wellsville
West Incorporated limits Hyrum
Junction SR 165 in Hyrum
East Incorporated Limits Hyrum
Wasatch National Fore st Boundary
Hardware  - Visitors Center
1.21
0.61
1.27
2.82
0.11
2.08
13.13
0.50
2345
3775
3555
3515
1115
985
885
730
2425
4800
4550
4500
2500
1880
1200
800
2520
5136
4959
5020
2675
1955
1250
835
10496
10496
10308
7117
1274
1052
1052
1052
-14.9
9.9
1.1
12.7
8.8
8.2
10.6
15.9
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 85
STATE ROUTE 142 - AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC
Description Mileage
1995
AADT
1996
AADT
1997 
AADT
2020
 AADT
Percent
Change
Junction SR 23
Northwest Incorporated Limits Newton
South Incorporated Limits Clarkston
Center Street Incorporated Limits Clarkston
East Incorporated Limits Clarkston
West Incorporated Limits Trenton
Junction SR 23 in Trenton
East incorporated Limits Trenton
West Incorporated Limits Lewiston
East Incorporated limits Lewiston
West Incorporated Limits Richmond - SR 91
0.03
4.45
0.48
0.41
4.07
0.27
2.36
2.03
1.24
1.29
0.61
745
745
560
660
700
975
1075
1075
1075
1255
1475
775
775
585
655
675
940
975
975
975
1205
1525
806
860
608
685
705
980
975
975
975
1156
1390
2726
2013
2013
914
914
716
2934
2934
2266
6384
6384
39.3
39.3
-3.4
10.0
8.5
5.4
30.3
30.3
30.3
14.6
8.1
STATE ROUTE 165 - AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC
Description Mileage
1995
AADT
1996
AADT
1997
AADT
2020
AADT
Percent
Change
Center of Paradise a t 9100 South
North Incorporated Limits Paradise
South Incorporated Limits Hyrum
Junction SR 101 in Hyrum
North Incorporated Limits Hyrum
South Incorporated Limits Nibley
Logan Urbanized Boundary
Junction SR 238 in Nibley
Northern Incorporated Limits Nibley
South Incorporated Limits Providence
North Incorporated Limits Providence
Logan South Incorporated Limits - SR 91
1.01
3.36
0.61
0.72
0.80
1.02
0.38
0.79
1.01
0.52
0.18
0.33
2245
2130
2610
6310
7625
9300
9300
10995
7635
7635
7635
10835
2400
2205
2700
6525
7885
9615
9410
11110
7715
7715
7715
10945
2495
2295
2810
6785
8195
9995
9635
11375
7900
7900
7900
11205
4254
4254
7564
10032
8853
22202
24756
24084
24084
24084
24260
25958
43.5
38.3
49.1
90.1
112.7
94.2
94.2
121.2
28.9
28.9
28.9
29.8
STATE ROUTE 200 - AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC
Description Mileage
1995
AADT
1996
AADT
1997 
AADT
2020
AADT
Percent
Change
Junction SR 61 in Lewiston - Utah - Idaho State Line 1.56 1800 1865 1940 1315
STATE ROUTE 218 - AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC
Description Mileage
1995
AADT
1996
AADT
1997 
AADT
2020
AADT
Percent
Change
Junction SR 23
West Incorporated Limits Amalga
East Incorporated Limits Amalga
West Incorporated Limits Smithfield - SR 91 Smithfield
4.22
1.48
1.40
1.10
1715
1715
3665
3840
1750
1750
3725
3900
1820
1820
3880
4059
4370
3686
1445
2062
115.7
115.7
142.7
77.0
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 86
STATE ROUTE 237 - AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC
Description Mileage
1995
AADT
1996
AADT
1997 
AADT
2020
AADT
Percent
Change
Junction 700 North via 800 East Logan
Junction SR 288
Junction SR 239 1400 North Logan
North Inc. Limits Logan & South Inc. Limits No Logan
1800 North
No. Inc. Limits No. Logan & So. Inc. Limits Hyde Park
200 West - SR 91
0.38
0.50
0.13
0.38
1.36
1.57
0.47
10305
8695
6450
5330
4210
3345
3345
10140
7825
5470
4905
4245
3385
3385
10385
8015
5600
4956
4290
3465
3465
11900
17850
16046
23751
15542
14745
920
STATE ROUTE 238 - AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC
Description Mileage
1995
AADT
1996
AADT
1997 
AADT
2020
AADT
Percent
Change
Junction SR 165
East Inc. Limits Nibley & West Inc. Limits Millville
No. Inc. Limits Millville & So. Inc. Limits Providence
North Inc. Limits Providence
South Inc. Limits River Heights
No. Inc. Limits River Heights & So. Inc. Limits Logan
200 West - SR 91
0.17
1.54
1.54
0.10
0.81
0.05
0.47
1710
1710
1555
1555
3175
4765
6235
1640
1640
1525
1525
3175
4815
6300
1680
1680
1565
1565
3250
4930
6450
915
856
7733
13278
14526
18628
17187
STATE ROUTE 239 - AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC
Description Mileage
1995
AADT
1996
AADT
1997 
AADT
2020
AADT
Percent
Change
Junction SR 91 - Junction SR 237 1.04 16285 16455 16665 27643
STATE ROUTE 243 - AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC
Description Mileage
1995
AADT
1996
AADT
1997 
AADT
2020
AADT
Percent
Change
Junction SR 89 - Beaver Mountain Ski Area 2.41 605 625 650
STATE ROUTE 288 - AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC
Description Mileage
1995
AADT
1996
AADT
1997 
AADT
2020
AADT
Percent
Change
Junction SR 89 via 1200 East
1000 North SR 288 - SR 237
0.50
0.49
7150
7910
7235
8000
7410
8190
17398
8454
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 87
STATE ROUTE 89 - AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC
Description Mileage
1995
AADT
1996
AADT
1997 
AADT
2020
AADT
Percent
Change
Junction SR 91 in Logan
600 East in Logan
East Incorporated Limits Logan
East Urban Boundary Logan
Boy Scout Camp
Tony Grove Ranger Station
Junction SR 243 to Beaver Mountain Ski Area
Cache - Rich County Line
0.79
2.08
0.03
9.62
9.23
6.07
5.04
2.59
24200
18115
18115
3625
2410
2155
1710
1710
24455
19295
18295
3725
2505
2240
1795
1795
25040
18730
18730
3815
2610
2335
1870
1870
15516
23167
8569
2794
2794
2794
2794
2794
STATE ROUTE 91 - AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC
Description Mileage
1995
AADT
1996
AADT
1997 
AADT
2020
AADT
Percent
Change
Box Elder - Cache County Line
South Incorporated Limits Wellsville
Junction SR 23
Junction SR 101 in Wellsville
North Incorporated limits Wellsville
Southwest Urban Boundary - Logan
South Incorporated Limits Logan
Junction SR 165
Junction SR 238 300 South Logan
Junction 200 North SR 30 in Logan via Main Street
400 North SR 89 in Logan
North Inc. Limits Logan & South Inc. Limits No Logan
North Urban Boundary Logan
Junction 2500 North to Airport in North Logan
North Incorporated limits North Logan
Junction SR 237 Road to Hyde Park
North Incorporated Limits Hyde Park
South Incorporated Limits Smithfield
Junction SR 218 in Smithfield
North Incorporated Limits Smithfield
North Urbanized Boundary
South Incorporated Limits Richmond
Junction SR 142 in Richmond
North Incorporated Limits Richmond
South Incorporated Limits Lewiston
Junction SR 61 in Lewiston
North Inc. Limits Lewiston - Utah - Idaho State Line
6.59
0.27
2.27
0.42
3.72
1.00
1.33
0.59
0.64
0.26
1.42
0.38
0.89
0.81
0.67
0.55
0.60
1.57
1.00
0.52
3.14
1.32
1.19
2.09
0.40
0.25
1.33
13425
13425
13425
13275
13275
13085
13890
29720
27020
31975
27370
25830
25830
24950
25490
25490
25490
20975
14205
9815
9815
9560
9685
8195
8195
5410
5410
12605
12605
13425
14005
14865
13660
14040
30035
27305
32315
27660
27660
26705
25215
25760
25760
25760
21930
14355
9915
10150
98855
9965
8405
8405
5540
5540
13445
13445
14320
14929
15850
14479
14882
31116
28261
33270
28320
28620
26105
25815
26375
26375
26375
22455
14700
10315
10550
10275
10465
8905
8905
5770
5770
20977
20973
19045
19045
31821
30241
30624
57188
65390
40274
37622
30663
27807
42036
41004
38251
30468
30468
29282
22884
22285
22285
10142
10142
10976
10976
10976
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 88
INTERMODEL TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS
TRAVEL TIME TO WORK
In addition to the mode of travel the travel time to  work provides additional understanding concerning
the travel patterns of individuals within Cache County.  Like the mode  of travel, the travel time to work
gives a clear picture of the mobility of, and willingness of individuals to travel.
TRAVEL TIME TO WORK  (Worker 16 and older)
Travel Time
Cache 
County
%
Total
Logan
Urbanized
Area
% of
Total
Non Urban
Area
% of
Total
Less than 5 minutes
5-9 minutes
10-14 minutes
15-19 minutes
20-24 minutes
25-29 minutes
30-34 minutes
35-39 minutes
40-44 minutes
45-49 minutes
50-54 minutes
55-59 minutes
60-74 minutes
75-89 minutes
Greater than 90 minutes
2,310
7,225
6,874
4,780
2,442
738
1,155
153
208
386
354
181
1187
142
389
8.1
25.3
24.1
16.8
8.6
2.6
4.0
0.5
0.7
1.4
1.2
0.6
4.2
0.5
1.4
1,695
6,163
5,749
3,434
1,087
367
571
104
104
226
238
114
750
105
276
5.9
21.6
20.2
12.0
3.8
1.3
2.0
0.4
0.4
0.8
0.8
0.4
2.6
0.4
1.0
615
1,062
1,125
1,346
1,355
371
584
49
104
160
116
67
437
37
113
2.2
3.7
3.9
4.7
4.8
1.3
2.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.4
0.2
1.5
0.1
0.4
Total 28,582 100.0 20,983 73.6 7,541 26.4
Source: US Census Bureau; 1990 CTPP
The travel time to work reveals that the bulk of workers within Cache County travel  somewhere  between
less that 5 minutes to 24 minutes to their  place of employment.  Most of the population in Cache County
is located in the Logan Urbanized Area.   1990 populations for Cache County the Logan Urbanized Area
was 52,929.  1996 estimated population for the Logan Urbanized Area is 65,645. 
 The 1990 Census Journey to Work data indicated there are approximately 18,128 workers  16 years of
age and older in  the Logan Urbanized Area in 1990.   If the number of workers in the  Logan Urbanized
Area increased at the same rate of population growth there would be approximately 22,483 wor kers. 
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 89
TRAVEL TIME TO WORK BY AREA
The largest travel time to work for groups of workers fall between 5 to 24 minutes.  This is primarily
due to the large number of workers living within the Logan Urbanized  Area.  As discussed earlier 2/3
of the County’s population currently reside within the Logan Urbanized  Area.  So longer  travel time to
work would not be excepted. 
However,  there are a significant number of individuals that travel 60 to 74 minu tes to work.  This
correlates  with the large number individuals who are willing  to  commute to jobs outside of the County.
This cross tabulation shows that significant number of indivi duals that are willing to commute long
distances  for employment.   The tables on the following  pages show the cross tabulation of household
income by mode of travel also seems to indicate the same thing.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 90
CROSS TABULATION OF TRAVEL TIME TO WORK BY MODE  
Time Traveled (minutes) <5 5-9 10-19 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 60-74 >75 Total
Total Workers
  Cache County Total
  Logan Urbanized Area
  Non-Urban Area
Drove Alone
  Cache County Total
  Logan Urbanized Area
  Non-Urban Area
Carpooled
  Cache County Total
  Logan Urbanized Area
  Non-Urban Area
Transit
  Cache County Total
  Logan Urbanized Area
  Non-Urban Area
Bicycle or Walked
  Cache County Total
  Logan Urbanized Area
  Non-Urban Area
Other Modes
  Cache County Total
  Logan Urbanized Area
  Non-Urban Area
2,310
1,695
615
1,644
1,311
333
224
152
72
13
6
7
353
181
172
76
45
31
7,225
6,163
1,062
5,795
5,005
790
674
548
126
27
27
0
621
513
108
108
70
38
11,654
9,183
2,471
9,143
7,036
2,107
1,485
1,207
278
99
82
17
837
795
42
90
63
27
3,180
1,454
1,726
2,433
1,017
1,416
567
278
289
1
0
1
526
152
374
23
7
16
1,308
675
633
817
361
456
390
227
163
0
0
0
78
76
2
23
11
12
594
366
228
285
181
104
271
148
123
21
21
0
7
7
0
0
0
0
468
352
183
141
99
42
384
243
141
5
5
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1187
750
437
263
192
71
922
556
366
0
0
0
2
2
0
0
0
0
531
381
150
274
234
40
245
144
92
0
0
0
0
0
0
9
0
9
28,824
21,019
7,505
20,795
15,436
5,359
5,162
3,506
1,656
169
141
28
2,068
1,740
328
330
196
134
Source: US Census Bureau; 1990 CTPP
CROSS TABULATION OF HOUSEHOLD INCOME BY MODE  
Household Income ($000) <5 5-9 10-19 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 60-74 >75 Total
Total Households
  Cache County Total
  Logan Urbanized Area
  Non-Urban Area
Drove Alone
  Cache County Total
  Logan Urbanized Area
  Non-Urban Area
Carpooled
  Cache County Total
  Logan Urbanized Area
  Non-Urban Area
Transit
  Cache County Total
  Logan Urbanized Area
  Non-Urban Area
Bicycle or Walked
  Cache County Total
  Logan Urbanized Area
  Non-Urban Area
Other Modes
  Cache County Total
  Logan Urbanized Area
  Non-Urban Area
481
408
73
244
194
50
60
60
0
9
9
0
112
105
7
7
5
2
1,306
1,130
176
808
704
104
185
160
25
27
25
2
201
173
28
22
19
3
5,203
4,243
960
3,476
2,799
677
780
653
127
58
56
2
570
511
59
92
56
36
5,710
4,414
1,296
4,035
3,135
900
901
690
211
16
16
0
377
335
42
57
32
25
5,815
3,959
1,856
4,141
2,869
1,272
1,064
693
371
31
13
18
230
184
46
61
42
19
4,379
2,750
1,629
3,008
2,021
987
890
449
441
28
22
6
198
114
84
42
19
23
2,898
1,963
935
2,023
1,432
591
597
359
238
0
0
0
127
91
36
18
9
9
2,205
1,570
635
1,606
1,136
470
426
300
126
0
0
0
84
72
12
15
6
9
1,762
1,278
484
1,353
1,045
308
253
136
117
0
0
0
46
32
14
16
8
8
29,759
21,715
8,044
20,694
15,335
5,359
5,156
3,500
1,656
169
141
28
1,945
1,617
328
330
196
134
Source: US Census Bureau; 1990 CTPP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 91
CROSS TABULATION OF HOUSEHOLD SIZE BY VEHICLE AVAILABLE
# OF VEHICLES NO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7+ Total
All Households
  Cache County Total
  Logan Urbanized Area
  Non-Urban Area
1-Person Households
  Cache County Total
  Logan Urbanized Area
  Non-Urban Area
2-Person Households
  Cache County Total
  Logan Urbanized Area
  Non-Urban Area
3-Person Households
  Cache County Total
  Logan Urbanized Area
  Non-Urban Area
4-or-more Person Households
  Cache County Total
  Logan Urbanized Area
  Non--Urban Area
753
666
87
547
484
63
123
102
21
45
45
0
38
35
3
5,969
4,908
1,061
2,516
2,062
454
1,637
1,388
249
710
569
141
1,106
889
217
8,864
6,432
2,432
454
315
139
3,178
2,440
738
1,344
1,022
322
3,888
2,655
1,233
3,698
2,485
1,213
75
59
16
810
524
286
819
653
166
1,994
1,249
745
1,240
812
428
5
0
5
171
88
83
181
109
72
883
615
268
382
253
129
3
0
3
20
16
4
46
26
20
313
211
102
109
90
19
0
0
0
1
0
1
13
10
3
95
80
15
40
17
23
0
0
0
0
0
0
16
6
10
24
11
13
21,055
15,663
5,392
3,600
2,920
680
5,940
4,558
1,380
3,174
2,440
734
8,341
5,745
2,596
Source: US Census Bureau; 1990 CTPP
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 92
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 93
TRANSPORTATION ELEMENT - BIBLIOGRAPHY
SOCIO-ECONOMIC CHARACTERISTICS
Cache  Countywide Planning & Developme nt Office, Annual Report of Socio-Economic
Characteristics , Logan, Utah, July 1999.
Cache  Countywide Planning & Development Office, Regional Planning Projection , Logan, Utah,
December 1997.
ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
Bear River Association of Governments, Wetland Values and Protection Bear River District: Box
Elder, Cache and Rich Counties , Logan, Utah, September 1982.
Siwek, Sa rah, ISTEA Planner’s Workshop: Conformity , Surface Transportation Policy Project,
Washington, D.C., October 1994.
United  States Department of  Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service, Soil Survey of Cache Valley Area,
Utah: Parts of Cache and Bo x Elder Co unties, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington,
D.C., November 1974.
United  State s Dep artment of Housing and Urban Development, The Noise Guidebook , U.S.
Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C., March 1985.
United  States Fish and Wildlife Service, Classification of Wetlands and Dee pwater Habitats
of the United States , U.S. Department of the Interior, Washington, D.C., December 1979.
EXISTING TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES
American  Association of State  Highway and Transportation  Officials, A Policy on Geometric Design
of Highways and Streets , 1984.
Ewing, Reid, Transportation & Land Use Innovations , Planners Press, Chicago, Ill, 1997.
State of Colorado, State Department of Highways, The State Highway Access Code, July, 1981.
Transportation Research Board, Highway Capacity Manual, 1985.
U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration, Access Mana gement and Traffic
Analysis of Highways (and accompanying course), February, 1991.
Utah Department of Transportation, Regulations for the Control and Protection  of State H ighway
Rights-of-Way, Salt Lake City, Utah, Revised June, 1983.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Draft Transportation Element (5/01) Page 94
Utah Department  of Transportation, Regulations Governing Class B & Class  C Road Funds, Salt Lake
City, Utah, October, 1997.
Utah Department of Transportation,  1995 Traffic on Utah’s Highways , Salt Lake City, Utah, 1995.
Utah Department of Transportation, 1997 Traffic on Utah’s Highways , Salt Lake City, Utah, 1997.
Utah Department of Transportation, 1998 Traffic on Utah’s Highways , Salt Lake City, Utah, 1998.
Wisconsin Department of Transportation, Planned Access: Protecti on for Wisconsin's Highways, 1980.
CACHE METROPOLITAN PLANNING ORGANIZATION (CMPO)
Cache  Metropo litan Planning Organization, CMPO 2020 Long Range Transportation Plan , Logan,
Utah, June 1997.
Cache  Metropolitan Planning Organization, CMPO 2025 Long Range Transportation Plan , Loga n,
Utah, May 2000.
Cache Metropolitan Planning Organization, Cache Valley Corridor Study , Logan, Utah, June 1999.
Cache  Metropolitan Planning Organization, Long Range Pedestrain/Bicycle  Plan, Logan, Utah, June
1997.
INTERMODAL TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM
Cache  Metropolitan Planning Organization, Logan  Urbanized Area: Short Range Transit  Plan, Logan,
Utah, December, 1997.
U.S. Department of Transportation, Census Transportation Plannin g Packag e, FHWA, Washington,
D.C., 1992
Utah Transit Authority, Planning with Transit: Land Use/Transit Coordination Handbook , Salt Lake
City, Utah, March 1995.
/83/84/65/84/69/32/79/70/32/85/84/65/72
/82/69/71/73/79/78/65/76/32/84/82/65/78/83/80/79/82/84/65/84/73/79/78/32/83/89/83/84/69/77
/49/48 /48 /49/48 /50/48 /51/48 /52/48 /53/48 /77/105/108/101/115
/78
/35
/35
/35
/35
/35
/35
/79/103/100/101/110
/83/97/108/116/32/76/97/107/101/32/67/105/116/121
/83/116/32/71/101/111/114/103/101
/77/111/97/98
/80/114/111/118/111
/76/111/103/97/110
/77/65/80/32/84/45/49
/77/65/80/32/84/45/50
/35
/35
/35
/35
/35
/35
/35
/35
/35
/35
/35
/35
/35
/35
/35
/35
/35
/35
/35
/35
/35
/35
/35
/35
/35
/35
/35
/65/108/98/117/113/117/101/114/113/117/101
/67/104/101/121/101/110/110/101
/66/97/107/101/114/115/102/105/101/108/100
/67/111/108/111/114/97/100/111/32/83/112/114/105/110/103/115
/68/101/110/118/101/114
/69/108/32/80/97/115/111
/66/111/105/115/101
/76/111/103/97/110
/72/101/108/101/110/97
/72/117/110/116/105/110/103/116/111/110/32/66/101/97/99/104
/76/97/115/32/86/101/103/97/115
/76/111/110/103/32/66/101/97/99/104
/76/111/115/32/65/110/103/101/108/101/115
/82/101/110/111
/83/116/46/32/71/101/111/114/103/101
/80/104/111/101/110/105/120
/80/111/114/116/108/97/110/100
/83/97/99/114/97/109/101/110/116/111
/83/97/108/116/32/76/97/107/101/32/67/105/116/121
/83/97/110/32/68/105/101/103/111
/83/97/110/32/70/114/97/110/99/105/115/99/111
/83/97/110/32/74/111/115/101
/83/101/97/116/116/108/101
/83/112/111/107/97/110/101
/66/117/116/116/101
/84/97/99/111/109/97
/84/117/99/115/111/110
/78
/49/48/48 /48 /49/48/48 /50/48/48 /51/48/48 /52/48/48 /77/105/108/101/115
/87/69/83/84/69/82/78/32/85/78/73/84/69/68/32/83/84/65/84/69/83
/82/69/71/73/79/78/65/76/32/84/82/65/78/83/80/79/82/84/65/84/73/79/78/32/83/89/83/84/69/77
/77/65/80/32/84/45/51
/78
/68/101/110/115/105/116/121/32/49/57/57/53
/82/101/115/105/100/101/110/116/105/97/108/44/32/72/105/103/104/32/68/101/110/115/105/116/121
/82/101/115/105/100/101/110/116/105/97/108/44/32/77/101/100/105/117/109/32/68/101/110/115/105/116/121
/82/101/115/105/100/101/110/116/105/97/108/44/32/76/111/119/32/68/101/110/115/105/116/121
/86/97/99/97/110/116
/67/111/109/109/101/114/105/99/97/108/47/73/110/100/117/115/116/114/105/97/108/44/32/76/111/119/32/68/101/110/115/105/116/121
/67/111/109/109/101/114/99/105/97/108/47/73/110/100/117/115/116/105/114/97/108/44/32/72/105/103/104/32/68/101/110/115/105/116/121
/67/105/116/121/32/82/111/97/100/115
/67/111/117/110/116/121/32/82/111/97/100/115
/83/116/97/116/101/32/72/105/103/104/119/97/121/115
/67/111/117/110/116/121/32/66/111/117/110/100/97/114/121
/67/105/116/121/32/66/111/117/110/100/97/114/121
/49/48/49/50/51/52/53 /77/105/108/101/115
/67/65/67/72/69/32/67/79/85/78/84/89
/80/79/80/85/76/65/84/73/79/78/32/65/78/68/32/69/77/80/76/79/89/77/69/78/84/32/68/69/78/83/73/84/73/69/83
/49/57/57/53
/67/65/67/72/69/32/67/79/85/78/84/89
/80/79/80/85/76/65/84/73/79/78/32/65/78/68/32/69/77/80/76/79/89/77/69/78/84/32/68/69/78/83/73/84/73/69/83
/50/48/50/48
/49 /48 /49 /50 /51 /52 /53 /77/105/108/101/115
/68/101/110/115/105/116/121/32/50/48/50/48
/82/101/115/105/100/101/110/116/105/97/108/44/32/72/105/103/104/32/68/101/110/115/105/116/121
/82/101/115/105/100/101/110/116/105/97/108/44/32/77/101/100/105/117/109/32/68/101/110/115/105/116/121
/82/101/115/105/100/101/110/116/105/97/108/44/32/76/111/119/32/68/101/110/115/105/116/121
/86/97/99/97/110/116
/67/111/109/109/101/114/105/99/97/108/47/73/110/100/117/115/116/114/105/97/108/44/32/76/111/119/32/68/101/110/115/105/116/121
/67/111/109/109/101/114/99/105/97/108/47/73/110/100/117/115/116/105/114/97/108/44/32/72/105/103/104/32/68/101/110/115/105/116/121
/67/105/116/121/32/82/111/97/100/115
/67/111/117/110/116/121/32/82/111/97/100/115
/83/116/97/116/101/32/72/105/103/104/119/97/121/115
/67/111/117/110/116/121/32/66/111/117/110/100/97/114/121
/67/105/116/121/32/66/111/117/110/100/97/114/121
/78
/77/65/80/32/84/45/52
/78
/49 /48 /49 /50 /51 /52 /53 /77/105/108/101/115
/67/65/67/72/69/32/67/79/85/78/84/89
/80/72/89/83/73/67/65/76/32/67/79/78/83/84/82/65/73/78/84/83
/67/111/117/110/116/121/32/66/111/117/110/100/97/114/121
/67/105/116/121/32/66/111/117/110/100/97/114/121
/49/48/48/32/89/101/97/114/32/70/108/111/111/100/32/80/108/97/105/110
/87/101/116/108/97/110/100/32/65/114/101/97/115
/82/105/118/101/114/115/32/97/110/100/32/83/116/114/101/97/109/115
/76/97/107/101/115/32/38/32/82/101/115/101/114/118/105/111/114/115
/67/111/117/110/116/121/32/82/111/97/100/115
/83/116/97/116/101/32/72/105/103/104/119/97/121/115
/77/65/80/32/84/45/53
/67/111/114/110/105/115/104
/76/101/119/105/115/116/111/110
/84/114/101/110/116/111/110
/82/105/99/104/109/111/110/100/67/108/97/114/107/115/116/111/110
/65/109/97/108/103/97/78/101/119/116/111/110
/83/109/105/116/104/102/105/101/108/100
/72/121/100/101/32/80/97/114/107
/78/111/114/116/104/32/76/111/103/97/110
/76/111/103/97/110
/77/101/110/100/111/110
/82/105/118/101/114/32/72/101/105/103/104/116/115
/80/114/111/118/105/100/101/110/99/101
/77/105/108/108/118/105/108/108/101
/78/105/98/108/101/121
/87/101/108/108/115/118/105/108/108/101
/72/121/114/117/109
/80/97/114/97/100/105/115/101
/67/65/67/72/69/32/67/79/85/78/84/89
/83/84/65/84/69/32/70/85/78/67/84/73/79/78/65/76/32/67/76/65/83/83/73/70/73/67/65/84/73/79/78/32/83/89/83/84/69/77
/49/48/49/50/51/52/53 /77/105/108/101/115
/78
/67/111/117/110/116/121/32/66/111/117/110/100/97/114/121
/67/105/116/121/32/66/111/117/110/100/97/114/121
/67/105/116/121/32/82/111/97/100/115
/67/111/117/110/116/121/32/82/111/97/100/115
/65/114/116/101/114/105/97/108
/77/97/106/111/114/32/67/111/108/108/101/99/116/111/114
/77/105/110/111/114/32/67/111/108/108/101/99/116/111/114
/77/65/80/32/84/45/54
/67/111/114/110/105/115/104
/76/101/119/105/115/116/111/110
/84/114/101/110/116/111/110
/82/105/99/104/109/111/110/100/67/108/97/114/107/115/116/111/110
/65/109/97/108/103/97/78/101/119/116/111/110
/83/109/105/116/104/102/105/101/108/100
/72/121/100/101/32/80/97/114/107
/78/111/114/116/104/32/76/111/103/97/110
/76/111/103/97/110
/77/101/110/100/111/110
/82/105/118/101/114/32/72/101/105/103/104/116/115
/80/114/111/118/105/100/101/110/99/101
/77/105/108/108/118/105/108/108/101
/78/105/98/108/101/121
/87/101/108/108/115/118/105/108/108/101
/72/121/114/117/109
/80/97/114/97/100/105/115/101
/78
/49 /48 /49 /50 /51 /52 /53 /77/105/108/101/115
/67/65/67/72/69/32/67/79/85/78/84/89
/67/79/85/78/84/89/32/80/82/73/79/82/73/84/89/32/82/79/65/68/32/83/89/83/84/69/77
/67/111/117/110/116/121/32/66/111/117/110/100/97/114/121
/67/105/116/121/32/66/111/117/110/100/97/114/121
/67/105/116/121/32/82/111/97/100/115
/83/116/97/116/101/32/72/105/103/104/119/97/121/115
/67/111/117/110/116/121/32/80/114/105/111/114/105/116/121/32/82/111/97/100/32/83/121/115/116/101/109
/70/114/105/115/116/32/80/114/105/111/114/105/116/121
/83/101/99/111/110/100/32/80/114/105/111/114/105/116/121
/84/104/105/114/100/32/38/32/83/101/97/115/111/110/97/108
/77/65/80/32/84/45/55
/65/109/97/108/103/97
/83/109/105/116/104/102/105/101/108/100
/72/121/100/101/32/80/97/114/107
/78/111/114/116/104/32/76/111/103/97/110
/76/111/103/97/110
/82/105/118/101/114/32/72/101/105/103/104/116/115
/80/114/111/118/105/100/101/110/99/101
/77/105/108/108/118/105/108/108/101
/78/105/98/108/101/121
/49 /48 /49 /77/105/108/101/115
/78
/67/65/67/72/69/32/67/79/85/78/84/89
/76/79/71/65/78/32/85/82/66/65/78/73/90/69/68/32/65/82/69/65
/77/65/80/32/84/45/56
/67/111/114/110/105/115/104
/76/101/119/105/115/116/111/110
/84/114/101/110/116/111/110
/82/105/99/104/109/111/110/100/67/108/97/114/107/115/116/111/110
/65/109/97/108/103/97/78/101/119/116/111/110
/83/109/105/116/104/102/105/101/108/100
/72/121/100/101/32/80/97/114/107
/78/111/114/116/104/32/76/111/103/97/110
/76/111/103/97/110
/77/101/110/100/111/110
/82/105/118/101/114/32/72/101/105/103/104/116/115
/80/114/111/118/105/100/101/110/99/101
/77/105/108/108/118/105/108/108/101
/78/105/98/108/101/121
/87/101/108/108/115/118/105/108/108/101
/72/121/114/117/109
/80/97/114/97/100/105/115/101
/67/65/67/72/69/32/67/79/85/78/84/89
/82/65/73/76/82/79/65/68/32/83/89/83/84/69/77
/49/48/49/50/51/52/53 /77/105/108/101/115
/78
/67/111/117/110/116/121/32/66/111/117/110/100/97/114/121
/67/105/116/121/32/66/111/117/110/100/97/114/121
/76/97/107/101/115/32/38/32/82/101/115/101/114/118/105/111/114/115
/82/105/118/101/114/115/32/97/110/100/32/83/116/114/101/97/109/115
/67/111/117/110/116/121/32/82/111/97/100/115
/83/116/97/116/101/32/72/105/103/104/119/97/121/115
/82/97/105/108/114/111/97/100/32/76/105/110/101/115
/77/65/80/32/84/45/57
/77/65/80/32/84/45/49/48
/67/65/67/72/69/32/67/79/85/78/84/89
/76/79/71/65/78/45/67/65/67/72/69/32/65/73/82/80/79/82/84
/72/121/100
/49 /48 /49 /77/105/108/101/115
/78
1 
/67/111/114/110/105/115/104
/76/101/119/105/115/116/111/110
/84/114/101/110/116/111/110
/82/105/99/104/109/111/110/100/67/108/97/114/107/115/116/111/110
/65/109/97/108/103/97/78/101/119/116/111/110
/83/109/105/116/104/102/105/101/108/100
/72/121/100/101/32/80/97/114/107
/78/111/114/116/104/32/76/111/103/97/110
/76/111/103/97/110
/77/101/110/100/111/110
/82/105/118/101/114/32/72/101/105/103/104/116/115
/80/114/111/118/105/100/101/110/99/101
/77/105/108/108/118/105/108/108/101
/78/105/98/108/101/121
/87/101/108/108/115/118/105/108/108/101
/72/121/114/117/109
/80/97/114/97/100/105/115/101
/67/65/67/72/69/32/67/79/85/78/84/89
/84/82/65/78/83/80/79/82/84/65/84/73/79/78/32/80/82/79/74/69/67/84/83/32/40/50/48/48/48/32/45/32/50/48/50/48/41
/49/48/49/50/51/52/53 /77/105/108/101/115
/78
/67/111/117/110/116/121/32/66/111/117/110/100/97/114/121
/67/105/116/121/32/82/111/97/100/115
/67/111/117/110/116/121/32/82/111/97/100/115
/83/116/97/116/101/32/72/105/103/104/119/97/121/115
/84/114/97/110/115/112/111/114/116/97/116/105/111/110/32/80/114/111/106/101/99/116/115
/67/77/80/79/32/40/70/117/110/100/101/100/41
/67/77/80/79/32/40/85/110/99/111/110/115/116/114/97/105/110/116/101/100/41
/67/111/117/110/116/121/32/80/114/111/106/101/99/116/115
/85/68/79/84/32/80/114/111/106/101/99/116/115
/77/65/80/32/84/45/49/49
INFRASTRUCTURE ELEMENT 
 
 
The Infrastructure Element of the Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan is not 
available at this time (5/24/01) 
M. LYNN LEMON 
COUNTY EXECUTIVE/SURVEYOR 
120 NORTH 1 00 WEST 
LOGAN, UTAH 84321 
Tel435-752-5935 
Fax 752-9169 
CACHE COUNTY 
CORPORATION 
CACHE COUNTY 
RESOLUTION NO. 1999- 23 
COUNTY COUNCIL 
DARRELL . GIBBONS 
CHAIRMAN 
CORY YEATES 
V CHAIRMAN 
SARAH ANN SKANCHY 
C. LARRY ANHDER 
GUY RAY PULSIPHER 
H. CRAIG PETERSE N 
LAYNE M. BECK 
STEPHEN M. ERICKSON 
CLERK 
A RESOLUTIO N ADOPTING A MODERATE INCOME HOUSING PLAN AS AN 
ELEMENT OF THE CACHE COUNTYWIDE CO:MPREHENSIVE PLAN. 
The County Council of Cache County, State ofUtah, in a regular meeting, lawful 
notice ofwhich has been given, finds that Utah Code Ann. §17-27-307 provides that, as part of 
its general plan , Cache County should adopt a plan for moderate income housing within the un-
incorporated areas of the County, and that it should be incorporated as an element ofthe 
Cache Countywi de Comprehensive Plan. 
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CACHE COUNTY COUNCIL, that 
the attached Moderate Income Housing Plan be adopted and incorporated as an element ofthe 
Cache Countywi de Comprehensive Plan, pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 17-27-307. 
DATED this '"Z"~ day of October, 1999. 
CACHE COUNTY COUNCIL 
ATTEST: 
Dary owns 
Cache County Clerk 
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Affordable Housing Element
AFFORDABLE HOUSING ELEMENT 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE     
Introduction ............................................................... .1
Population & Demographics .................................................. .3
Population Trends
Employment Trends
Income Levels
Cost of Living
Population and Demographics Issue Statement
Existing Housing ........................................................... 7
Current Housing
Housing Affordability
Housing Trends
Existing Housing Issues Statement
Affordable Housing Needs Summary .......................................... 11
Affordable Housing Needs Issues Statement
Regulation & Ordinances .................................................... 13
Land Use Ordinance
Barriers & Incentives
Regulation & Ordinances Issues Statement
Goals and Strategies ........................................................ 15
Appendix ................................................................ 17
Bibliography ............................................................. 23
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Affordable Housing Element
TABLES PAGE
AH-1 Population and Household Assumptions (1990 & 1996) ...................... 3
AH-2 Cache County Non-Agricultural Employment 1990, 1996, & 2000 ............. 4
AH-3 Cache County Median Household Income (1990 & 1996) ..................... 4
AH-4 Percentage of Median Income By Family for Cache County ................... 5
AH-5 ACCRA Cost of Living Index Logan Urbanized Area (1990-1997) ............. 6
AH-6 Dwelling Units by Occupancy For Cache County ........................... 7
AH-7 Estimated Affordable Housing Need (Year End 1996) ...................... 11
AH-8 Share of Housing Unit Types by Jurisdiction (1990) ........................ 12
FIGURES PAGE
AH-1 New Residential Construction 1990 to 1995 ................................ 9
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Affordable Housing Plan Page 1
INTRODUCTION
In Utah and Cache County, the demand for affordable housing has become an increasingly serious
challenge  in the 1990s.  The price of  homes and rents in  Utah have increased faster than income as the
economic  growth in the 1990's has created higher land and construction costs.  These trends are  expected
to continue, putting even greater demands  upon already stressed housing resource.  Some  communities
have experienced an acute  shortage of affordable housing while others  are losing affordable housing to
rapidly  increasing housing costs, commercial encroachment, diminishing federal subsidy to housing
efforts,  and an inability to respond to quickly changing conditions.  Local government has only limited
control over issues that affect housing price-changing demographics.
In 1996, the Utah legislature passed HB295 to mandate preparation and inclusion of a n affordable
element  within the county’s and municipalities’ general plans s o that each jurisdictions would
systematically  assess their housing situations.  The goal of the Affordable Housing Element is to
encourage  a variety of housing to allow persons with low  and moderate incomes to benefit from and to
fully participate in all aspects of neighborhood and  community life.  State Law mandates the affordable
housing element shall include the following items:
• An estimate of the existing supply of moderate income housing within the County;
• An estimate of the proposed need for moderate income housing (five year periods);
• A survey of current residential zoning;
• An evaluation of how existing zoning densities affect opportunities for mode rate inco me
housing, and;
• A des cription of the County’s program to encourage an adequate supply of moderate income
housing.
The assessment of the affordable  housing need  has been done by using a model developed by the State
of Utah’s Department of Community and Economic  Development.  The tables and data shown
throughout the Affordable Housing Element are  primarily based on 1990  Census data and are used as
inputs  into the model.  The model developed by the State was used  to derive the affordable hous ing
need.
Cache  County as part of the Land Use Element  of the Countywide Comprehensive Plan  identified the
need of developing policy on a affordable housing.  The general implementation policies include the
following policy dealing with affordable housing.
DEVELOP  AND IMPLEMENT A COUNTY-WIDE  POLICY FOR MODERAT E-
INCOME HOUSING (USC 10-9-307 & 17-27-307)
The Utah L egislature has determined that municipalities and counties should afford a
reasonable  opportunity for a variety of housing.  This should  include moderate-income
housing  to meet the needs of people desiring to live in a community.  Moderate-income
housing  should be encouraged to allow persons with moderate incomes to benefit  from,
and to fully pa rticipat e in, all aspects of neighborhood and community life. Moderate
-income  housing is defined as housing occupied or reserved for occupancy by
households  with a gross household income equal to or less than  80 percent of the median
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Affordable Housing Plan Page 2
gross income of the metropolitan-statistical area for households of the same size.
Implementation Recommendations:
• Estimate  the existing supply of moderate-income housing located within the
municipalities and county
• Estimate  and revise annually the need for moderate-income housing  in the
municipalities and county for the next five years
• Survey total residential zoning
• Show an evaluation of how existing zoning density’s affect opportunities for
moderate-income housing
• Development  of a program  by muni cipalities and the County to encourage an
adequate supply of moderate-income housing
The Affordable Housing Element of the Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan evaluates the
County’s affordable housing as a whole and then separates the unincorporated areas from the
municipalities.   This will give a better understanding  of the housin g needs within Cache County and
identify  the jurisdictional responsibility to meet those.  However, the prim ary foc us of the goals and
strategies  of the Affordable Housing Element will be on the  unincorporated  areas of Cache County.  The
implementation  policies developed as  part of this element will serve as  recommendation to the Cache
County  Planning Commissions and County Council  for improving and  maintaining affordable housing
within the unincorporated areas of Cache County.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Affordable Housing Element Page 3
POPULATION AND DEMOGRAPHIC INFORMATION
The demographics of Cache County indicat e a fair ly homogenous population.  The 1990 Census
indicated  there were 70,183 persons living in 21,055  households, making an average  household size of
3.29 persons. Of the total population there wer e 35,208 male and 34,975 female residents of Cache
County.  Approximately 95.0 percent of Cache County population is white,  with 97.6 percent of non-
Hispanic  o rigin.  The remaining 5 percent or roughly 3,500 persons are of minority races, Black,
American  Indi an, Asian, Pacific Islander, or other, living within the County.  Approximately 41.2
percent of Cache County's population is between 1 and 19 years old, 43.0 percent between ages of 20
and 49, and only 15.8 percent are age 50 or older.
Population Trends
Cache  County has maintained a steady growth rate of   2 to 2.5 percent a year since 1950.  Most of Cache
County's increase in population  has been natural due to births.  The County, at times, has experienced
surges of out and in-migration, but has  maintained a fairly constant growth rate. This may not seem like
a large growth  rate, but if the County continues to maintain this growth rate the population will  double
every 25 to 30 years.  Table AH-1 below shows the breakdown of the  basic population  and household
assumptions  for  Cac he County.  These basic assumptions are the minimum levels used for the
Affordable Housing Model in deriving the housing needs.
TABLE AH-1 POPULATION AND HOUSEHOLD ASSUMPTIONS (1990 & 1996)
County  
Total
Municipal  
Total
Unincorporated
Total
1990 Population (1990 Census)
1996 Population (1996)
1990 Household Size (1990 Cen sus)
1990 Household Size (GOPB, County)
1996 Household Size (GOPB, County)
Projected Household Size,  2002 (GOPB, County)
1990  Inc ome Li mit  - Fa mil y of  4 -" Low I ncome" ( 80%)
1996  Inc ome Li mit  - Fa mil y of  4 -" Low I ncome" ( 80%)
70,183
 85,408
3.29
3.37
3.28
3.21
$24,950
$32,000
65,379
80,082
4,804
5,326
Source: 1990 Census, Utah State GOPB Model
Most of  Cache County’s population of currently lives within the existing incorporated communities of the
County.  Table AH-1 shows the population breakdown by municipal and unincorporated area population.
In 1996 there we re 5,326 persons who lived in the unincorporated area of Cache County, which  is  6.2
percent of the total population of Cache County.  The annu alized growth rate from 1990 to 1996 for the
unincorporated area was 1.4 percent while the municipalities grew at a slightly higher rate of 2.9 percent.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Affordable Housing Element Page 4
Employment Trends
The employment growth trends indicate the population of Cache County is increasing at a somewhat faster
rate than housing growth.  Table AH-2 shows that non-agricultural employment has been growing about 5.2
% annually. This trend is expected to continue during the next few years.
TABLE AH-2 CACHE COUNTY NON-AGRICULTURAL EMPLOYMENT 1990, 1996, & 2000
1990 1996 2000 *AAGR
Mining
Construction
Manufacturing
Trans., Comm., & Public Utilities
Trade (Wholesale & Retail)
Finance & Real Estate
Service
Government
0
1,083
8,890
603
5,314
567
4,873
8,507
5
1,957
10,351
963
7,171
846
6,314
10,018
5
2,249
12,514
1,594
10,920
1,218
8,654
14,816
0.1%
6.9%
3.2%
9.2%
6.8%
7.2%
5.4%
5.2%
Total 29,837 37,625 51,970 5.2%
Source: Workforce Se rvice, 1990 Census
* Annual Average Growth Rate
The employment sectors that have shown the most growth since 1990 have been the finance and real estate,
transportation, communication, and public utility’s sectors.  The construction and trades are the next fastest
growing sectors of employment.  The office of Workforce Servi ces indicate s the overall projection of
employment sectors will continue to add new jobs, but this growth will be at a much slower rate.  This is due
primarily to the very low unemployment rate and decline in a net in-migration for the state as a whole.
Income Levels
The income of a person is a very important factor in the ability of that indivi dual or family to provide for
their housing needs.  Table AH-3 shows the median household income for Cache County in 1990, 1996 and
the percent change.
TABLE AH-3 CACHE COUNTY MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME (1990 AND 1996)
1990 1996 *AAGR
Cache County $ 26,949       $ 32,879      2.5 %
Source: U S Bureau of the Census
*AAGR - Annual Average  Growth Rate
The share of earnings in Cache County comes from the manufacturing sector (28%).  Overall, the personal
income for Cache County ranks at 13 among the counties in the State.  The per capita’s personal income for
Cache County in 1996 was $16,022.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Affordable Housing Element Page 5
The income levels for Cache County are based  on the HUD Home Program Income Limits.  Table AH-4
shows the number families based on the percentage of the median income for 1990 and 1996 for Cache
County.
TABLE AH-4 PERCENTAGE OF MEDIAN INCOME BY FAMILY FOR CACHE COUNTY
Affordable Housing
 Income Category
Greater
than 80%
80% of 
Medi an I ncome
50% of 
Medi an I ncome
30% of
Medi an I ncome
Total
Number of Families 1990
County Total 11,222 3,325 2,339 3,244 20,130
Municipal Total 10,958 3,255 2,308 3,191 19,712
Unincorporated Total 264 70 31 53 418
Number of Families 1996
County Total 13,009 4,437 3,380 4,596 25,422
Municipal Total 12,656 4,333 3,308 4,521 24,548
Unincorporated Total 353 104 72 75 604
In 1990, 56 percent of Cache County's population met the affordable housing income categories.  In 1996,
the number of families which met the affordable housing categories decreased by 5 percent to 51  percent.
The overall decrease could be contributed to a number of different factors such as increased income, and
availability lower cost housing, and other factors.
COST OF LIVING
A review of the cost of living for an area provides a useful and reasonably accurate measure of living costs
within an urban area.  The housing index for the fourth quarter of each year was used fr om the American
Chamber of Commerce Researchers Association (ACCR A) Cost of  Living Index.  The ACCRA Cost of
Living Index, a national report published quarterly, uses the following housing criteria to calculate the cost
of living index for housing:
• Apartment, monthly rent - two bedrooms, unfurnished, excluding all utilities except water, 11/2 or
2 baths, approximately 950 sq. ft.
• Total purchase price - 1,800 sq. ft. living area new house, 8,000 sq. ft. lot, urban area with al l
utilities.
• Mortgage Rates - effective rate, including points and origination fee, for 30-year conventional fixed-
rate mortgages.
• Monthly Payments - principal and interest, using mortgage rate and assuming 25% down payment.
Table AH-5 on the following page shows the fourth quarter cost of living composite and housing index for
the Logan Urbanized Area.  The index measures relative price levels for consumer cost of housing.  The
average for all participating places, equals  100, and each participants’ index is read as a percentage of the
average for all places.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Affordable Housing Element Page 6
TABLE AH-5 ACCRA COST OF LIVING INDEX LOGAN URBANIZED AREA (1990 -1997)
Fourth Quarter Composite Index Housing Index
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
93.2
94.7
93.0
94.5
101.8
103.6
103.0
102.1
91.3
87.8
85.3
97.7
107.7
117.3
114.4
114.3
Source: ACCRA Cost of living Index
Table AH-5 shows a definite increase in the housing costs within the Logan Urbanized Area.  Since
1994 the housing costs have been some of the highest in the State of Utah for metropolitan areas.
This is a definite problem when trying to meet the housing needs of the lower income groups.
Population and Demographic Issues Statement
The primary issues associated wi th populat ion and demographic dealing with affordable housing are
location  and density of population in Cache County.  Currently, 93 percen t of the pop ulation of the
County  lives in the existing municipalities, while 7 percent lives in the uni ncorp orated area of Cache
County.  This breakdown of where individuals live  alone is a very important factor in the development
of an affordable housing policy for unincorporated Cache County.
The reason for limited population within the unincorporated County is due to the physical  constraints
and limitation with the unincorporated areas of the County.  Currently,  there are limited or no municipal
services  (public water and sewer systems) provided in the unincorporated areas of  the County.  Any new
residential  development has been limited due to the requ irem ents of an individual well or spring and
septic system for each home.  This places limits on the size  of a lot to  accommodate a well and septic
system.  Many times the existing physical constraints  require the lot to be larger than the  minimum ½
acre.
The limited urban service and the physical constraint will continue to be the limiting factors dealing  with
residential  development within the  unincorporated areas of Cache County.  Currently,  the potential for
higher  density  housing development becomes very remote today and  in the future.  These factors limit
the options that the Counties to provide for affordable housing.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Affordable Housing Element Page 7
EXISTING HOUSING
The existing housing information is divided into two groups of  dwelling units based on the 1990 Census,
owner and renter occupied dwelling units.   This section will consider the different  aspects of each group.
The existing housing section will discuss the current housing stock, affordability and housing trends.
Current Housing Stock
Table  AH-6 shows the number of owner and rental-occupied units based on the 1990 Census market
value and rent.  Most of the owner-occupied dwelling  units (92 percent) are located within the existing
municipalities  while 8  percent of  the owner occupied dwelling units are located in the unincorporated
areas of the County.  Table AH-6 shows the number of dwelling units by  occupancy as a  percentage of
median income.
TABLE AH-6 DWELLING UNITS BY OCCUPANCY FOR CACHE COUNTY 1990
County Total Municipal Total Unincorporated Total
Owner Occupied
  30% of Med ian  Inc ome
  50% of Med ian  Inc ome
  80% of Med ian  Inc ome
  Greater t han 80%
  Total Specified
  Not Specified
Total Owner Occupied
560
 3,590
5,267
1,456
10,873
2,288
13,161
532
3,411
4,919
1,335
10,197
1,890 
12,087
28
179
348
121
676
398
1,074
Renter Occupied
  30% of Med ian  Inc ome
  50% of Med ian  Inc ome
  80% of Med ian  Inc ome
  Greater t han 80%
  No Cash Rent
  Total Specified
  Not Specified
Total Renter Occupied
2,698
3,838
876
136
221
7,769
91
7,860
2,653
3,772
864
134
203
7,626
54
7,572
45
66
12
2
18
143
37
180
Source: 1990 Census
Based on the 1990 Census the median market value for owner-occupied dwellings in  Cache County was
$116,000.   This number would be consistent with homes in the unincorporated areas and municipalities.
Over the last eight years, since  the census,  the housing costs in Cache County have risen to be one of
the highest costs for urban areas in the State  of Utah.   Housing costs have increased steadily to a high
of 117 percent of the national average in 1995 based on the  ACCRA Cost of Living I ndex .  This  is
prima rily due to t he lack of speculation housing being developed within Cache County as a whole.
Currently,  most of the newly constructed single-family dwellings in all of Cache County are cu stom
homes which tend to cost more than speculation housing.
Like the owner oc cupied d welling units, most of the rental units (97 percent) are located within the
existing  municipalities.  The unincorporated area of the County  has no provisions to allow multi-family
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Affordable Housing Element Page 8
dwelling  units.  The 1990 Census showed the median  gross monthly rent for renter occupied dwelling
units in Cache County to  be $335.  Based on the data in  the table on the previous page, the median gross
rent for both the unincorporated areas and municipalities of Cache County should  be consistent  with the
overall  median gross rent of the County.  Like the market value for owner  occupied dwelling units, the
rental  rate also increased by 4.6 percent a year since 1990.  The vacancy rat e for renter occupied
dwelling  units since 1990 has been approximately 1.1 percent.  This  low vacancy rate  has contributed
to an increas ed ren tal rate and has encouraged an increased demand for building multi-family units
within the municipalities of the County.
Housing Affordability
The price of housing  is the result, in  large part, of demand and supply; population changes, especially
net in-migration and net out-migration, employment fluctuations and changes in income.  In  Cach e
County,  as we ll as the res t of Utah, housing price movements have corresponded very closely with
demographic  and economic trends.   Whe n the County and State experienced net out-migration and
sluggish  growth in in come an d employment (1985-1990), housing prices were stagnant.  The rapid
acceleration  of prices in the 1990's coincides with the  in-migration beginning in 1990-1991  and stronger
growth in both employment and income.
The increase in housing prices has not had the negative impact on housing demand and affordability that
one would expect at first glance.  Since higher pr ices have different consequences for different
households.   For those individuals who  already own homes, higher housing prices have improved their
ability to afford higher priced homes.  For example  an individual whose home was valued at $70,000
in 1990 has seen the valu e of the home increase to more than $120,000 by 1997, creating $50,000 in
addition al equity or wealth.  This inflation-created equity becomes an important factor in the down
payment  for a future home purchase.  It allows the individual in this example to purchase another home
that is priced well beyond  what their income would allow because  they can reduce the monthly payment
by making a substantial down-payment usin g the inflation-created equity.  The increase in housing
prices  actually assists, rather than deter, the individual from buying a higher-priced  and higher quality
home
The groups of people whose affordability has been adversely affected  by increases in housing  prices are
primarily  those living in rental h ousing and  those new households created each year by marriages,
divorces  and by children leaving home.  Generally, these groups of individuals have not benefitted from
rising home eq uity created by higher housing prices.  With little prospect for home-ownership, these
individuals  are prevent ed from owning  the very asset that has proven to be the best source of wealth
accumulation for current homeowners.
Housing Trends
Since the 1990 Census residential construction has substantially increased .  The Figure AH-1 on the
following  page shows the new residential construction from 1990 to 1995.  The inform ation in the
graphic  shows the total number of new residential  constructions for Cache County with the data  broken
down into municipal and unincorporated areas.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Affordable Housing Element Page 9
FIGURE AH-1     NEW RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION 1990 TO 1995
Source: Annual Report of socioeconomic Characteristics, 1997
In 1990 there were only 247 new residential dwelling units  built in Cache County with 220 developed
within  the existing municipalities and  27 were built in the unincorporated County.  In 1995 there were
821 new dwelling units developed in  Cache County with  745 new dwelling units developed within the
existing  municipalities and 76  built in the unincorporated County.  The overall number of new dwelling
units developed from1990  to 1995 were 3,778.  Dwelling units built in municipalities totaled  3,473 or
92 percent of  the total number.  The remaining 7 percent or 305 dwelling units were developed in the
unincorporated  areas of the County.  The unincorporated areas of Cache County have, in the last six
years, experienced an overall 2.6 percent growth rate in  the number of new residential  dwelling units.
Existing Housing Issue Statement
Since 1990 the number of new residential housing units within Cache County ha s increase d
substantially.   The numbers of new residential building permits does show that it has pe aked and the
overall  number of new permits is declining per year.  However, the number of permits in the
unincorporated  area is continuing to  show slight increases over time.  This may be due to a number of
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Affordable Housing Element Page 10
different factors.   The different factors include the following:
• Lower cost of land in the unincorporated county.
• Availability of land
• Increased fees within the municipalities.
• Increasing construction cost
• Personal desire to live in rural areas
Whatever  these factors are this trend is  expected to continue overtime.  Really the only limiting factor
will be physical constraints.  These physical constraints will be the availability of  a good culinary water
source and the ability to develop an operable septic system.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Affordable Housing Element Page 11
AFFORDABLE HOUSING NEEDS SUMMARY
The need for affordable housing within Cache County is evident  based on the current cost of existing
housing  in Cache Count y.  The model developed by the Utah State Department of Community and
Economic  Development was used to determine the overall need for a ffordable ho using.  Table AH-7
below shows the estimated affordable housing needs based on the output of the model.
TABLE AH-7 ESTIMATED AFFORDABLE HOUSING NEEDS (YEAR END 1996)
Affordable Housing Category
80% of
Median
Inc ome
50% of
 Median
Inc ome
30% of
Median
Inc ome
Hous ehol d In come
Maximum Purchase Price
Maximum Monthly Rent
$32,000
$99,700
$726
$20,000
$60,900
$426
$12,000
$35,000
$226
County-Current Supply (year end 1996)
   1990
   Net change - 1990 t o 1996
   Current S upply
 County-Projected Supply (year end 2001)
   Current Suppl y (1996)
   New Demand (1997 to 2001)
   Projected Supply
   Annual Average Affordable Housing Need
-922
263
-659
-659
-746
-1,404
281
-874
-774
-1,648
-1,648
-704
-2,352
470
-2,193
-1,218
-3,411
-3,411
-912
-4,324
865
Municipal-Current Supply (year  end 1996)
   1990
   Net change - 1990 t o 1996
   Current S upply
Municipal-Projected Supply ( year end 2001)
   Current Suppl y (1996)
   New Demand (1997 to 2001)
   Projected Supply
   Annual Average Affordable Housing Need
-877
155
-722
-722
-703
-1,425
285
-844
-495
-1,339
-1, 339
-477
-1,816
363
-2,113
-1,226
-3,339
-3,339
-862
-4,201
840
Unincorporated-Current Supply (year end 1996)
   1990
   Net change - 1990 t o 1996
   Current S upply
 Unincorporated-Proj ected Supply ( year end 2001)
   Current Suppl y (1996)
   New Demand (1997 to 2001)
   Projected Supply
   Annual Average Affordable Housing Need
-46
71
26
26
-68
-43
9
-29
-32
-61
-61
-147
-208
42
-82
-12
-94
-94
-35
-129
26
There  is a need for additional affordable housing to be built in Cache  County.  It is very important to
understand  the outputs from this model should only be considered as  a gross representation  of a potential
outcome  if the current housing trends continue at  the same rate.  Output of this model should only serve
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Affordable Housing Element Page 12
as an indicator that there is a need for affordable housing  and there should be some effort made to lessen
the potential impacts on the demand for more affordable housing.
Another  method for considering the need of affordable housing is to consider the  share of housing based
on type and jurisdiction.   Table AH-8 below shows the  share of housing unit types by jurisdiction based
on the 1990 Census.
TABLE AH-8 SHARE OF HOUSING UNIT TYPES BY JURISDICTION (1990)
County
Total
% of
County
Municipal
Total
% of
County 
Unincorporated
Total
% of
County
Total Ho using U nits
Owner-Occu pied Un its
Renter-O ccupied  Units
Vacan t Units
22,053
13,161
7,860
1,032
100.0
59.7
35.6
4.7
20,543
12,087
7,680
776
93.2
91.8
97.7
75.2
1,510
1,074
180
256
6.8
8.2
2.3
24.8
Source: 1990 Census
More than 93 percent of the total housing  units are located  within the existing municipalities, with less
than 7 percent in th e unincorporated areas of the County.  Only limited municipal services, such as
culinary  water and no sewer systems are provided in the unincorporated areas of the County.  The  Cache
Countywide  Comprehensive Plan  does not encourage these municipal type services  to be provided now
or in the future in the unincorporated areas of the County.
Affordable Housing Needs Issues Statement
The model provides only a rough  estimate of t he future need for affordable housing within Cache
County.   Since the focus of this  element is on the unincorporated  area, it is important to understand that
the unincorporated County only has a  very small share of the total housing units of  the County.  In the
past it has not been the intent of the County to restrict any housing type within the unincorporated areas
of the County.  As Cache County develops the new land use ordinance for the unincorporated  areas of
the County there  should be an effort to put no limits on the development of different  residential housing
where possible.
The physical constraints  will limit the overall density and certain type  of residential housing units.  As
discussed  earlier most development will require the use of individual wells and septic sy stem s.  This
alone will limit  the size and type of residential housing projects.  High density residential housing
development  will require municipal type services such  a s water and sewer systems.  So any
developments  of these types should be done in the existing municipalities where these services are
available.   This recommendation is consistent with the development policy of the  Land Use Element of
the Cache  Countywide  Comprehensive Plan  of  “Urban development within the existing urban areas”.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Affordable Housing Element Page 13
REGULATION AND ORDINANCES
Cache  County and the municipalities of the County have a  limited but very important roles in providing
affordable housing within each jurisdiction.  Each jurisdiction has a limited power to regulate the overall
number  of affordable housing units built  within their community.  Under Utah State Code, each county
and municipality has a respo nsibility for developing their own ordinances and they administer them
separate  from one another.  Within enabling laws of the State of Utah, there are very  few requirements
for individual jurisdictions to cooperate with  one another.  These limited requirements,  tax structure and
revenues  sources for a community, create more of an atmosphere  of competition rather than cooperation.
These  circumstances create a very difficult situation in trying to create affordable housing wit hin th e
County.   A comm unity may have  some effect on the affordable housing policies of their community
through general plans, land use regulations, and fees and development exactions.
Land Use Regulations
Land use regulations are often considered one of the major barriers to the development of affordable
housing  and are reflected  in the cost of housing.  The three major areas where land use regulations have
the most effect on the cost of housing are:
• Large Lot Zoning
• Standards imposed by zoning and subdivision regulations
• Requirements for installation of off-site facilities
Currently,  the County’s Land Use Ordinance is designed to assure a compatible interrelationship of land
uses in such a way that the health, safety, and general welfare of the county are promoted and protected.
The objectives of  land use ordinances is to establish regulations that provide locations for all essential
uses of land and buildings and to ensure that each is located appropriately.
Cache  County’s Land Use Ordinance currently allows three type s of reside ntial housing within the
current agricultural zoning.  These housing types include the following:
• Single-Family Dwelling;
• Accessory Apartment with a single-family dwelling, and;
• Temporary Mobile Home for farm workers.
The information  used by the model for the housing needs  analysis was limited to1990 Census and local
building  permit data.  Accessory apartments and temporary mobile homes were not  accounted for in the
data used by the model.   The information on these housing types were not include in the model because
they were difficult to identify number of these uses and incorporate them into  the model for the  needs
analysis.   However, these two housing types tend to  be of low rent and providing  housing opportunities
for individuals with income of less  than 50 and  30 percent of the median income.  It is estimated that
there are some 200 units of both accessory apartments and temporary mobile homes currently being used
within  the unincorporated county.  The total number housing units cann ot be confirm ed but it does
indicate that there are additional housing units available for individuals in the lower income levels.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Affordable Housing Element Page 14
Cache  County through the Countywide Comprehensive Plan  has recognized the need for affordable
housing.   As part of the update of  the County’s land use regulation, based on the implementation
policies  of the Plan, the County will give careful consideration to pro vide for the n eed for affordable
housing in the unincorporated County.
Barriers and Incentives
The primary barrier to developing affordable  housing within the unincorporated  County is the lack of
urban services.  Most of the requirements of the County’s Land Use Ordinance are  centered  around the
need for basic services (culinary  water an d sewage disposal).  There are a limited number of  public
water systems within the unincorporated areas of the county and no sewer systems available.
The minimum lot size for a  single-family dwelling within the unincorporated  County is ½ acre.  This
is primarily due to the need for an individual well and septic system for  each individual dwelling unit.
Because  of physical constraints such as high water table, soils,  wetlands and others, causes most lots for
new dwelling units to e xceed 1 acre.  These physical constraints have not encouraged urban type’s
residential  development in the unincorporated  area of the county.  The municipal services necessary for
large developments has encouraged these developments to take place in the existing municipalities.
Regulations and Ordinances Issue Statement
Cache  County  is currently in the process of rewriting their land use ordinance.  This is primarily based
on the changes recommended by the implementation policies of the Land Use Element of the Cache
Countywide Comprehensive Plan .  It has been and will continue to be the intent of the County to not
limit the development of  residential housing within the unincorporated  areas of the County.  However,
the physical environment will place some restrictions on the type an d density o f any residential
development in the County.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Affordable Housing Element Page 15
GOALS AND STRATEGIES
GOAL 1: Cache  County should conti nue to work to  meet the affordable housing needs of  the
citizens in the unincorporated areas in Cache County
Objectives:
C Not limit the opportunities  for providing affordable housing in  unincorporated areas of the
County
C Encourage the development affordable housing where possible
Strategies:
1.1 Keep the planning and approval process simple for individual applicants 
1.2 Keep the County Land Use Ordinance from  become overly restrictive  to prevent affordable
housing
GOAL  2: As Cache  County develops  the new Land Use Ordinance, based on the  implementation
policies  of the Land Use Element, the current  provisions which provide for affordable
housing should be maintained.
Objectives:
C Continue  to provide for affordable housing opportunities within Cache County Lan d Us e
Ordinance
C Continue  opportunities for affordable  housing in the unincorporated areas of Cache County
Strategies:
2.1 Improve  the standards in the land use ordinance  for Accessory Apartment in existing  single
family dwelling
2.2 Better define the standards of the Temporary Uses in the County Land Use Ordinance
2.3 Improve the enforcement of the Temporary use standards
2.4 Better define the definition of family in the Land Use Ordinance
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Affordable Housing Element Page 16
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Affordable Housing Element Page 17
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Affordable Housing Plan Page 17
APPENDIX
The follo wing  tables are the primary inputs to the Affordable Housing Model used to do the needs
analysis.   These table show the detail breakdown  of the data used in the model.  Much of the information
in the tables used with the text of the Affordable Housing Element is based on this information and
additional data sources to augment the information.
OWNER OCCUPIED UNITS - 1990 Census
1990 Market Value
County
Total
Munic ipal 
Total
Unincorporated
        Total
Less than $15, 000
$15,000 to $19,999
$20,000 to $24,999
$25,000 to $29,999
$30,000 to $34,999
$35,000 to $39,999
$40,000 to $44,999
$45,000 to $49,999
$50,000 to $59,999
$60,000 to $74,999
$75,000 to $99,000
$100,000 to $124,999
$125,000 to $149,000
$150,000 to $174,999
$175,000 to $199,999
$200,000 to $249,999
$250,000 to $299,999
$300,000 to $399,999
$400,000 to $499,999
$500,000 or M ore
45
46
75
150
244
415
485
817
1,873
2,838
2,429
809
276
148
75
87
21
28
3
9
45
41
70
137
239
458
756
756
1,802
2,657
2,262
742
264
132
65
78
19
26
0
9
0
5
5
13
5
20
27
61
71
181
167
67
12
16
10
9
2
2
3
0
Total Specified
Not Specified
10,873
2,288
10,197
1,890
676
398
Total Owner Occupied 13,161 12,087 1,074
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Affordable Housing Plan Page 18
RENTAL UNITS - 1990 Census
1990 Gross Monthly Rent
County 
Total
Municipal
Total
Unincorporated 
Total
Less than $100
$100 to $149
$150 to $199
$200 to $249
$250 to $299
$300 to $349
$350 to $399
$400 to $449
$450 to $499
$500 to $549
$550 to $599
$600 to $649
$650 to $699
$700 to $749
$750 to $999
$1,000 or More
No Cash Rent
31
156
345
789
1,377
1,519
1,104
697
518
227
210
176
182
81
131
5
221
31
156
344
776
1,346
1,503
1,083
674
512
224
210
167
182
81
129
5
203
0
0
1
13
31
16
21
23
6
3
0
9
0
0
2
0
18
Total Specified
Not Specified
7,769
91
7,626
54
143
37
Total Renter Occupied 7,860 7,680 180
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Affordable Housing Plan Page 19
MONTHLY OWNER COSTS AS A PERCENTAGE OF INCOME - 1990 Census
Owner Households Renter Households
Hous ehold I ncome
County
Total
Municipal
Total
Unincorporated
Total
County
Total
Municipal
Total
Unincorporated
Total
less than $10,000:
Less than 20 per cent
20 to 24 percent
25 to 29 percent
30 to 34 percent
35 percent or more
Not computed
148
157
114
84
347
41
146
146
113
84
304
36
2
11
1
0
43
5
27
30
73
122
1,377
146
27
30
70
122
1371
143
0
0
3
0
6
3
$10,000 to $19,999:
Less than 20 per cent
20 to 24 percent
25 to 29 percent
30 to 34 percent
35 percent or more
Not computed
835
126
98
97
289
0
794
114
91
89
279
0
41
12
7
8
10
0
477
529
544
363
691
73
474
515
539
350
686
71
3
14
5
13
5
2
$20,000 to $34,999:
Less than 20 per cent
20 to 24 percent
25 to 29 percent
30 to 34 percent
35 percent or more
Not computed
1,419
567
497
243
195
0
1,332
532
470
226
174
0
87
35
27
17
21
0
1,454
357
196
92
78
63
1,425
348
193
86
78
54
29
9
3
6
0
9
$35,000 to $49,999:
Less than 20 per cent
20 to 24 percent
25 to 29 percent
30 to 34 percent
35 percent or more
Not computed
1,925
601
176
55
15
0
1,783
575
162
50
6
0
142
26
14
5
9
0
724
37
9
0
0
28
700
37
9
0
0
26
24
0
0
0
0
2
$50,000 or more:
Less than 20 per cent
20 to 24 percent
25 to 29 percent
30 to 34 percent
35 percent or more
Not computed
2,484
290
33
17
14
6
2,355
269
30
17
14
6
129
21
3
0
0
0
275
0
0
0
0
4
270
0
0
0
0
2
5
0
0
0
0
2
Total 10,873 10,197 676 7,769 7,626 143
HOUSING STOCK INFORMATION-1990
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Affordable Housing Plan Page 20
HOUSING STOCK OCCUPANCY AND AGE - 1990 Census
County
Total
Municipal
Total
Unincorporated
Total
Persons per Room
Owner Occu pied Un its
  0.50 or less
  0.51 to 1.0
  1.01 to 1.50
  1.51 to 2.0
  2.01 or more
8,192
 4,458
419
75
17
7,570
4,048
388
65
16
622
410
31
10
1
Renter O ccupied  Units
  0.50 or less
  0.51 to 1.0
  1.01 to 1.50
  1.51 to 2.0
  2.01 or more 
3,343
3,558
671
235
53
3,263
3,479
652
235
51
80
79
19
0
2
Housing Stock Age
Owner Occu pied Un its
  1989 to March 1990
  1985 to 1988
  1980 to 1984
  1970 to 1979
  1960 to 1969
  1950 to 1959
  1940 to 1949
  1939 or earlier
150
923
1,335
4,111
1,691
1,200
839
2,912
132
792
1,134
3,789
1,603
1,131
790
2,716
18
131
201
322
88
68
49
196
Renter O ccupied  Units
  1989 to March 1990
  1985 to 1988
  1980 to 1984
  1970 to 1979
  1960 to 1969
  1950 to 1959
  1940 to 1949
  1939 or earlier
88
491
1,130
1,621
1,051
882
594
2,003
83
488
1,120
1,595
1,041
843
581
1,929
5
3
10
26
10
39
13
74
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Affordable Housing Plan Page 21
TOTAL NEW CONSTRUCTION 1990 TO 1995 (New Residential Units Permitted)
1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 Total
County
  Single Family
  Duplex  & Multi Family
  Mobile Home/Cabins
Total
171
76
*
247
199
165
12
376
353
230
11
594
398
326
14
738
444
509
49
1,002
447
296
78
821
2,012
1,602
164
3,778
Municipal
  Single Family
  Duplex  & Multi Family
  Mobile Home/Cabins
Total
144
76
*
220
174
165
*
339
323
230
4
557
358
314
8
680
385
509
38
932
383
296
66
745
1,767
1,590
116
3,473
Unincorporated
  Single Family
  Duplex  & Multi Family
  Mobile Home/Cabins
Total
27
0
0
27
25
0
12
37
30
0
7
37
40
12
6
58
59
0
11
70
64
0
12
76
245
12
48
305
*Included with the count of single family units.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Affordable Housing Plan Page 22
NEW SUBSIDIZED UNITS 1990 TO 1995 (New Units Permitted)
1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 Total
County
 Owner O ccupied Units
 (by afford abi lity ca tegory)
  80% of Med ian  Inc ome
  50% of Med ian  Inc ome
  30% of Med ian  Inc ome
  Greater t han 80%
  Total
 Rental Un its (by afford ability category)    
  80% of Med ian  Inc ome
  50% of Med ian  Inc ome
  30% of Med ian  Inc ome
  Greater t han 80%
 Total
40
7
81
7
121
12
Municipal
 Owner O ccupied Units
 (by afford abi lity ca tegory)
  80% of Med ian  Inc ome
  50% of Med ian  Inc ome
  30% of Med ian  Inc ome
  Greater t han 80%
 Total   
 Rental Units  (by afford abi lity ca tegory)
  80% of Med ian  Inc ome
  50%of Med ian  Inc ome
  30% of Med ian  Inc ome
  Greater t han 80%
 Total
Unincorporated
 Owner O ccupied Units
 (by afford abi lity ca tegory)
  80% of Med ian  Inc ome
  50% of Med ian  Inc ome
  30% of Med ian  Inc ome
  Greater t han 80%
 Total
 Rental Un its (by afford abi lity ca tegory)
  80% of Med ian  Inc ome
  50% of Med ian  Inc ome
  30% of Med ian  Inc ome
  Greater t han 80%
  Total
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Affordable Housing Element Page 23
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Bear We st Consu lting Team, Utah Affordable Housing Manual,  State of Utah, Department of
Community and Economic Development, Salt Lake City, Utah, January 1998.
Kean, T. & Ashley, T., Not in My Back Yard: Removing the Barriers to Affordable Housing,
Advisory Commission Regulatory Barriers to Affordable Housing, Washington DC, 1991.
Ketcham,  P. & Si egel, S., Promoting Affordable Housing Through Land Use Planning,  Carolina
Planning, Fall 1991.
Moore,  B.M., Not in My Back Yard: Removing  the Barriers to Affordable Housing - A Review and
Critique,  American Planning Association, Planning & Zoning Review, April 1992.
Robinson,  P., Local Planning Requirements for Affordable Housing in Utah,  Utah Pla nner ,
American Planning Association, Utah Chapter, Salt Lake City, Utah, April 1998.
Rogel,  S.L. & Wietz, S., Land For Housing: How Local  Government Can  Help Increase Supply,
Development Component Series, Urban Land Institute, Washington DC, 1984.
Salkin,  S.E., Barriers to Affordable Housing: Are Land-use Controls the Scapegoat?,  American
Planning Association, Land Use Law, Chicago, IL., April 1993.
Welford,  S., Getzels, J., Mosena, D., Butler, J., Affordable Single-Family Housing: A  Rev iew of
Development  Standards,  American  Planning  Association, Planning Advisory Service Report
385, Chicago, IL., August 1984.
Welford,  S., Manufactured Housing: Regulation, Design Innovations, and  Development  Options,
American  Planning Association, Planning Advisory Service Report 478, Chicago, IL., Jul y
1998.
White,  M.S., Affordable Housing: Proactive and Reactive Planning Strategies,   American Planning
Association, Planning Advisory Service Report 441, Chicago, IL., December 1992.
Williams,  K.M., Affordable Housing: New Initiative for a Growing Problem,   American Planning
Association, Planning & Zoning News, Chicago, IL., June 1991.
Cache Countywide Comprehensive Plan - Affordable Housing Element Page 24