Envision CaChE vallEy Final REpoRt & toolkit
Keep the city, city
 Keep the country, country

This report is available online at
www.envisioncachevalley.com

Envision CaChE vallEy Final REpoRt & toolkit

iv  Envision Ca ChE v all Ey
Envision Cache va lley Project    
Partners
Cache Valley Regional Council
Cache County, Utah
Franklin County, Idaho 
Envision Cache va lley Funding  
sp
onsors
Architectural Nexus, In-Kind
Bank of Utah, Providence & Logan Branches
Bear River Association of Governments
BIO-WEST, Inc. 
Cache County
Cache Valley Chamber of Commerce, In-Kind
Cache Valley Electric
Cache Valley Metropolitan Planning Organization
Cache Valley Transit Authority
Campbell Scientific, Inc.
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Foundation
Franklin County
George S. and Dolores Doré Eccles Foundation
Gossner Foods
L.W. Miller Companies
Lewiston State Bank
Logan City
Logan Regional Hospital
Marriner S. Eccles Foundation 
Merit Medical
The Nature Conservancy
Pepperidge Farm, In-Kind
Rocky Mountain Power
Utah State University
Wescor, Inc.
Envision Cache va lley Executive 
Committee
Dirk Bowles, Co-Chair, Envision Cache Valley , Commissioner, Franklin 
County, Idaho
Tom Jensen, Co-Chair, Envision Cache Valley , Principal, Architectural 
Nexus
Gary Anderson, Chair, Cache Valley Regional Council 
Lynn Lemon, Cache County Executive
Alan Matheson, Executive Director, Envision Utah
Envision Cache va lley st eering 
Committee
Russ Akina, Parks and Recreation Director, Logan City
Gary Anderson, Cache Valley Regional Council
DalVon Atkinson, Commissioner, Franklin County 
Jay Baker, Countywide Planner, Cache County
Wayne Barlow, President and CEO, Wescor, Inc.
Scott Beckstead, Realtor, Franklin County
L. J. Bolton, Assistant Strategic Ventures and Economic Development, 
Utah State University (USU)
Dirk Bowles, Co-Chair, Envision Cache Valley , Commissioner, Franklin 
County, Idaho
Larry Bradford, Idaho State House of Representatives
John Burg, Planning and Zoning Administrator, Franklin County
Brian Carver, Community and Economic Development Director, Bear 
River Association of Governments
Dee Virile Christensen, Mayor, Dayton City
Justin Cooper, Cache Valley Home Builders Association
Leo Daley, Mayor, Weston
Joan Degiorgio, The Nature Conservancy
Curtis Dent, Cache County Planning Commission
Paul Dent, Board of Adjustment, Lewiston City
Jack Draxler, Utah State House of Representatives
Clair Ellis, Cache County Planning Commission
Kelly Field, Mayor, Lewiston City
Bob Fotheringham, Water Manager, Cache County
Nat Frazer, Dean, College of Natural Resources, USU
John T. Gaily, Mayor, Clifton
Marshal Garrett, Superintendent, Logan City School District
Jim Gass, City Manager, Smithfield City
Marc Gibbs, Idaho State House of Representatives
Lee Hendrickson, Mayor, Preston City
Russell Hirst, Mayor, Lewiston City
Julie Holist, Cache Valley Tourist Council
Dean Howard, Mayor, Hyrum City
George Humbert, Rocky Mountain Power
Clark Israelsen, Farm Bureau, USU Extension
Dennis Jackson, Economic Development Committee, Lewiston 
City
Tom Jensen, Envision Cache Valley Co-Chair, Architectural Nexus
Jeff Gilbert, Cache Valley Metropolitan Organization
Roger C. Jones, Executive Director, Bear River Association of 
Governments
Michael Kennedy, Assistant to the President, USU
Gerald Knight, Mayor, Nibley City
Dave Kooyman, Mayor, Hyde Park
Lynn Lemon, Cache County Executive
Mike Liechty, Deputy Superintendent, Cache County School District
Carlos Licon, Department of Landscape Architecture and 
Environmental Planning, USU
Vic Mahoney, Pepperidge Farm
Ruth Maughan, Mayor, Wellsville City
ac knowledgements
Brandon McBride, Intermountain Health Care
Brent Miller, Vice President of Research, USU
Larry W. Miller, President and CEO, L.W. Miller Companies
Mark Nielsen, Public Works Director, Logan City
Jay Nielson, Community Development Director, Logan City
Steven C. Norton, Superintendent, Cache County School District
Blake Parker, Parker Real Estate
Craig Petersen, Chair, Cache County Council
Sydney Peterson, Chief of Staff, USU
Wayne Priestley, Mayor, Franklin City
Josh Runhaar, Director of Development Services, Cache County
Caroline Shugart, Wellness Coordinator, USU
Darrell Simmons, Cache Valley Home Builders Association
Max Steadman, Logan Resident
Laraine Swenson, Utah Quality Growth Commission, Logan City 
Council
Cary Watkins, Mayor, North Logan
Scott Watterson, Icon Health and Fitness
Randy Watts, Mayor, Logan City
Ned Weinshenker, Vice President, Strategic Ventures and Economic 
Development, USU
Richard Westerberg, Commissioner, Franklin County
Thanks to all partners, funders, steering committee 
members, and technical experts for valuable contributions 
to Envision Cache Valley! Thanks especially to community 
leaders and the public, who, through the Envision Cache 
Valley process, created a vision for Cache Valley’s future.
Project Facilitator
Christie Oostema, Project Manager, Envision Utah
Envision Cache va lley Final Report & Toolkit
Design: Envision Utah
Cover Photos:  www.flickr.com/photos/8430129@N06
TablE o F Co nT EnTs   v
Keep the city, city
Invest in our towns—our centers for living, industry and culture.
Keep the country, country 
Protect the agricultural and natural lands that sustain us.
Introduction
1
 1• Background   •  Process   • Population Projections
Public Process
2
 3• Committees   • Baseline Development   • Workshops, Results & Analysis   • Alternative Growth Scenario Maps & Analysis
The Cache Valley Vision
3
 13• Vision Statement   • Vision Principles   • Vision Benefits   • Vision Maps
Realizing Our Vision
4
 31
• Recommendations   • Sample Municipal Strategy   • Local Analysis & Innovation
Implementation Toolkit
5
 37• Toolbox Matrix   • Tools   • Case Studies   • Resources (On-line & Print)
Cache Valley is a remarkable place. Brigham Young said 
that no other valley in the Territory was its equal—it was 
and is a beautiful and abundant valley. Life was not easy 
for the first pioneers, but they were resilient, creating 
an incredible place to live and to pursue one’s dreams, 
whatever they may be: raising a family, developing 
businesses, pursuing higher education, making a living 
from the land’s abundance, or relaxing in its beautiful 
surroundings.
The quality of human settlement was important to Utah’s 
founders. In 1892, LDS Church President John Taylor 
wrote,
“In all cases in making new settlements, the Saints 
should be advised to gather together in villages, 
as has been our custom from the time of our 
earliest settlement on these mountain valleys. 
The advantages of this plan, instead of carelessly 
scattering out over a wide extent of country, are 
many and obvious. ..By this means the people can 
retain their ecclesiastical organizations…Cooperate 
for the good of all in financial and secular matters, 
in making ditches, fencing fields, building bridges, 
and other necessary improvements. Further than 
this they are a mutual protection and a source of 
strength… their compact organization gives them 
many advantages of a social and civic character 
which might be lost, misapplied or frittered away by 
spreading out so thinly that inter-communication is 
difficult, dangerous, inconvenient, and expensive.” 
- Quoted in “Mormon Country” by Wallace Stegner
Times have changed. We don’t face the same challenges, 
but our task remains the same: to create the best place 
possible today and for generations to come. In that 
respect we, too, are pioneers—dreaming and innovating 
and collaborating to bring our dreams to fruition.
The Cache Valley Vision, illustrated in this document, 
captures a common dream, our collective hopes for the 
future. This hope is echoed by voices of the past—who 
also saw the value of investing in our towns and cities 
while protecting and enhancing resources in outlying 
areas. Let’s realize our dreams and keep Cache Valley 
beautiful, neighborly and prosperous - The Envision Cache 
Valley Executive Committee.
1  Envision Ca ChE v all Ey
in troduction
1
What is Envision Cache Valley ?
Envision Cache Valley  is a once-in-a-generation opportunity 
to explore growth-related issues and think together about 
what Cache Valley should be like in the future. The process 
reflects the values of the public, the voice of the public, and the 
vision of the public. Broad public participation in both creating 
and implementing the vision is the key to this process.
Cache Valley is becoming an increasingly interdependent 
region. The decisions that are made locally affect everyone 
regionally. Cache Valley residents breathe the same 
air, drive the same roads, share a common economy, and 
enjoy the same natural resources. Envision Cache Valley 
enables us to take a regional look at our future.
As the decisions made today affect our neighbors, the 
decisions made also affect future generations. Envision 
Cache Valley  asks the questions: What legacy do we want to 
leave behind for future generations? What kind of future do 
we want to create for our children and grandchildren?
Envision Cache Valley  creates a common dream for the future while 
respecting the interests of land owners. With this dream in mind, 
we can move beyond asking, “What do we want?” and move toward 
asking, “How do we get there?” The broad public participation that 
was a part of this process makes the vision and implementation 
strategy politically actionable. Growth will occur, and what 
form it takes and what impact it has on our valley depends on 
the choices we make today. Envision Cache Valley  represents a 
legacy that can be created for future generations, as citizens and 
community and regional leaders work toward common goals. 
ba ckground
Envision Cache Valley  began with the Cache Valley Regional 
Council, a group created by an interlocal agreement between 
Cache Valley jurisdictions and made up of elected officials from 
Franklin County, Idaho, and Cache County, Utah, to address 
valley-wide issues and work toward mutually beneficial 
solutions. A steering committee of local citizens with diverse 
backgrounds led the Envision Cache Valley  effort. Committee 
members were committed to a transparent and public process 
in which citizens explored the challenges associated with 
growth and worked toward the creation of a long-term vision 
for the valley. The task was to envision a place which future 
generations will appreciate—a place that preserves and 
enhances the quality of life that residents currently enjoy. 
Participants tackled such difficult issues as growth locations 
and patterns, private property rights, transportation, air 
quality, water quality, economic development, job growth, 
agriculture, land consumption, housing, environment, critical 
lands, and recreation. The Cache Valley Regional Council 
asked Envision Utah, a nonprofit organization that pioneered 
regional visioning, to facilitate Envision Cache Valley .
Process
The Envision Cache Valley  process included basic steps to achieve 
a broadly supported, publicly created vision:
•
 R
esearch recent and projected population and market trends.
•
 E
ngage citizens and stakeholders in activities that explore 
growth issues and choices.
•
 D
evelop a range of scenarios based on public preferences that 
explore growth issues and choices.
•
 E
xplore consequences of each scenario.
•
 E
ngage citizens and stakeholders in evaluation of scenarios and 
their components and consequences.
•
 C
reate a vision and vision strategy for Cache Valley that reflects 
public values.
What Could Cache va lley be        
li
ke in 2040?
Conservative estimates predict that by 2040 Cache Valley’s 
present population of about 125,000 people will almost 
double, to reach nearly a quarter million residents. While 
some growth comes from outside the valley, as has 
long been the trend, most growth is internal. Residents 
continue to have children and people are living longer, 
and both of these factors significantly affect growth. 
Given the likelihood of growth, it is helpful to examine recent 
development patterns to discover what life might be like if 
the valley continues growing as it has. The Envision Cache 
Valley process included creating a “baseline scenario,” or 
picture of what the valley may look like if growth continues 
both where and how it has in the past. The baseline, then, 
simply projects the pattern of the past ten years out into the 
future. It does not necessarily project the most likely future, 
but it does provide a baseline to which other ideas—ideas 
that come from the public—can be compared. The baseline 
helped participants ask themselves if the valley is heading 
toward the desired future or if some changes are in order.
Photo Series Source: www.flickr.com/photos/8430129@N06/
inT R o du C Ti on  2
de veloped la nds
If current growth trends continue, new 
residential growth in Cache Valley could 
consume about 50 square miles of land; or 
roughly three times the size of Logan.
Projected Growth
Logan
Projecting Cache va lley’s Population
State governments routinely prepare population estimates 
and projections to improve state planning, though they 
are also widely used by local governments, schools and 
businesses. Working from a baseline year, demographers 
project births, deaths, and migration out to a given time 
horizon. 
For example, Cache County’s 2008 population estimate of 
111,841 was used as a baseline to project out to 2060. In 
this scenario, the county’s population reaches 223,442 by 
2040 and 331,594 by 2060, assuming an average annual 
growth rate of 2.2%. Historically, Cache County has tended 
to grow more quickly than projected, largely due to higher 
than predicted births and lower than predicted death rates. 
Franklin County, Idaho, follows a similar trend.
Projections used for this study were obtained from the State 
of Utah Governor’s Office of Planning and Budget (GOPB) 
and the State of Idaho Department of Public Health. Detailed 
methodology and analysis is available on the GOPB website.
2008 Population Estimate
2040 Population Projection
ab out
250,000
people
ab out
125,000
people
Current de velopment in Cache va lley:
Projected 2040 
de
velopment in Cache 
va
lley:
2040 Projections
Looking northwest toward       
Hyrum and Nibley
Looking southeast toward    
Smithfield and Hyde Park
Looking northwest toward       
Hyrum and Nibley
Looking southeast toward    
Smithfield and Hyde Park
3  Envision Ca ChE v all Ey
Public Process
2
Public Process
in troduction - a  vi sion Created by the Public
How is a regional vision created by the public? An active 
citizenry and committed stakeholders participate in the 
process. Public workshops provided opportunities for 
citizens to craft maps illustrating their ideal future, town hall 
meetings enabled residents to express preferences regarding 
ideas proposed by the public at prior events, and online 
questionnaires facilitated another means to provide feedback. 
Envision Cache Valley  engaged citizens from all 25 cities and 
towns as well as unincorporated areas within Franklin County, 
Idaho and Cache County, Utah. The process also included a survey 
conducted by an independent research firm, which polled 400 
residents to achieve a representative sample of the population.
Cache va lley Regional Council
The Cache Valley Regional Council is a group of elected officials 
and community leaders from across the valley that collaborates 
to address regional issues. This body, created by an interlocal 
agreement of Cache Valley jurisdictions, identified the need for a 
regional vision, and initiated the Envision Cache Valley  process. 
The council was instrumental in forming the project’s executive 
and steering committees and will take on a leadership and 
empowerment role in vision implementation.
Envision Cache Valley  st eering Committee
The steering committee is composed of a large and diverse group of 
community leaders and citizens. Charged with directing Envision 
Cache Valley, the steering committee ensured a transparent and 
public process in which citizens could explore the challenges 
associated with growth and express preferences leading to the 
creation of a publicly supported valley-wide vision. Under the 
direction of the steering committee, Envision Utah facilitated the 
process.
Envision Cache Valley  Executive Committee
The executive committee is composed of a small group of steering 
committee members that oversees project administration, 
operations, and facilitators.
Envision Cache Valley  Technical Committee
The technical committee includes local experts who convened 
at key points in the process to evaluate project issues, identify 
themes and ideas from public input, help create and improve pieces 
developed for public meetings, and ensure that information shared 
with the public was accurate and technically sound.
Envision Cache Valley  is a scenarios planning process. A 
scenarios planning process enables a region to explore and 
test several alternative growth patterns to better understand 
the impacts of today’s decisions on future quality of life. Scenarios 
planning begins with an analysis of what the future will be like 
if current trends continue. The 2040 baseline represents 
this projection. 
To create the baseline, demographic and land-use trends 
from the last decade were analyzed to understand both 
where recent growth has occurred and what development 
patterns, including average lot sizes, it has followed. These 
data were used to create a picture of the future of each 
Cache Valley community if these development trends 
continue. Lot sizes vary by location, but average 
about one-half acre. In all, the region would see about 
50 square miles of new residential growth, equivalent 
in land area to adding about three new Logans to the 
valley by 2040.
Is the 2040 baseline the 
most likely future? No. 
It’s simply a projection 
of recent trends. There 
is no speculation about 
demographic shifts, 
economic opportunities, 
or changes to land-use 
plans. While it is not 
necessarily the most 
likely future, it does 
provide a sense of where 
the valley may be headed 
if recent trends were to 
continue. It also provides 
a point of reference to 
compare ideas generated 
by the public.
2040 ba seline d evelopment
Projected development in Cache Valley
Existing development in Cache Valley
Publi C P RoC Es s  4
Growth su mmit and st akeholder Meetings
Nearly 250 residents met at the Logan Tabernacle to launch 
Envision Cache Valley  on February 25, 2009. Participants 
contemplated the first 150 years of the valley’s settlement 
while looking toward the next few decades. While it took 
about 150 years for the valley to reach its current population 
of almost 125,000, the population is expected to double 
to about 250,000 in only a few decades. As they reviewed 
the 2040 baseline, participants were challenged to engage 
in a conversation about growth, to contemplate how to 
accommodate growth while creating a future that the next 
generations will appreciate. In conjunction with the Growth 
Summit, numerous meetings were held with stakeholder 
groups, including the Chamber of Commerce, Rotary, Kiwanis, 
local mayors, local planners, local city managers, conservation 
groups, and the media. About 200 people participated in these 
meetings.
Public Workshops and su rvey
More than 1,150 citizens participated in an initial round 
of public input in February and March 2009, through ten 
public workshops or an online questionnaire. Participants 
brainstormed how growth should occur in coming decades, 
and those at the workshops created maps illustrating their 
preferences for conservation, housing, employment, and 
transportation. Participants worked collectively to create 53 
maps, which, along with survey responses, presented ideas 
used to develop alternative growth scenarios. The workshops 
and other public events were the heart of the visioning 
process. The goal was to capture public values and preferences 
in order to create a publicly generated and supported long-
term vision. 
Among a wide range of possible goals, Envision Cache Valley 
participants identified the following as most important to the 
future:
•
 m
aintain/improve air quality
•
 m
aintain/improve water quality; conserve water
•
 r
etain viable agricultural land
•
 p
reserve scenic beauty
•
 k
eep housing reasonably priced
•
 c
reate high-quality jobs in Cache Valley
•
 p
reserve wildlife habitat
•
 f
ocus on infill and redevelopment of underutilized parcels
•
 p
rovide access to outdoor recreation
•
 r
educe drive times/alleviate traffic congestion.
Some features related to the above goals are tied to land-use 
and can be measured across alternative growth scenarios. 
These measures enabled citizens to compare the growth 
scenarios against common values.
During the ten workshops held throughout the valley, the public created more than 53 maps. Participants worked in 
groups on maps of Cache Valley to identify growth preferences. Paper chips identify preferred growth patterns and 
locations for housing and employment. Colored tape identifies desired transportation routes and modes. Markers identify 
valued critical lands, working farms and ranches, and recreational areas. Below are a few examples of what the public maps 
looked like.
Public Workshops

5  Envision Ca ChE v all Ey
What is Mixed- us e?
In mixed-use pattern, land uses (retail, 
residential, commercial and civic uses) 
blend to create a pedestrian-friendly 
design
Mixed la nd us es in C ache va lley?
Since the 1950s, Cache Valley has moved 
away from mixing uses. Is it time to 
reverse this trend?
Mixed-Use 
Neighborhood
Civic
Commercial
Residential
Pre-1950’s development displays a walkable,
mixed-use pattern.
Photo Source:  Google Earth
Post-1950s development displays typical single-use 
patterns such as commercial/retail or residential only.
Photo Source:  Google Earth
an alysis 
an alysis
After the workshops, Envision Utah staff, the technical 
committee, local planners, and the project steering committee 
reviewed the public input carefully to identify common 
themes and ensure that the public voice guided subsequent 
steps. They asked: What conservation, housing, employment, 
and transportation patterns are emerging across many maps? 
Analysis of the maps showed some striking similarities as well 
as some divergent ideas.
Conservation Themes 
Which lands are identified for conservation? 
Why are lands valued for conservation?
Areas of highest interest for long-term conservation included 
the valley floor, the benches and mountains, areas for 
recreational trails, and the canyons. Participants valued 
the valley floor most often for its working farms and role in 
protecting water quality, identifying water bodies, wetlands 
and floodplains as particularly important. They valued space 
between communities on the benches and the ecological 
and recreational features in the mountains. The Bonneville 
Shoreline Trail was identified on 43% of the maps, and more 
than half of the maps that included the Highway 91 corridor 
into the valley identified scenic views along the roadway as a 
priority.
ho using and Employment Themes 
Where did people explore placing new development? 
What type of development did they desire?                            
Separate or mixed uses? 
What development intensities did people explore?
Growth Centers
Many maps exhibited a tendency to increase density around 
and in existing town centers. Some maps did so primarily on 
the east side, creating a series of growth nodes from north to 
south, while other maps added substantial population in most 
existing communities, including places that are currently very 
small population centers. On average, participants located 
about two-thirds of new housing in mixed-use centers that 
blend a variety of housing options, services and employment 
opportunities. Among all development options, “town 
centers” were used to house the largest share, or 20%, of the 
population, while accounting for about five percent of the 
acres developed. Higher intensity employment centers tended 
to be distinct but adjacent to mixed-use areas. Office parks, 
usually adjacent to mixed-use centers, accommodated the 
largest share of employment.
Growth Corridors
Some maps exhibited growth along transportation corridors 
on either side of the valley. Some of the growth was located in 
centers, while other growth extended along transportation 
routes. Growth that didn’t occur in or adjacent to centers 
tended to be single-family residential. On average, about 18% 
of the anticipated population was placed on lots of one-half 
acre or larger. These lots accounted for an average of 45% of 
the acreage impacted by development. Most growth extending 
along transportation routes was development of this type, on 
lots half-acre acre or more in size.
Transportation Themes
What modes of transportation were explored? 
Where were transportation enhancements identified?
Workshop participants explored a variety of transportation 
options, including new or enhanced roads on 77% of 
maps, new or enhanced public transportation on 77% of 
maps, and bike commute routes on 77% of maps. Some 
maps explored a single mode of transportation, but many 
included improvements to all transportation modes. A north/
south bypass appeared, in one form or another, on 62% of 
workshop maps, and more than half included east/west 
connecting corridors. Three-quarters of maps included a 
major public transportation corridor along the east side of 
the valley, while about half of the maps exhibited a series 
of public transportation loops connecting the communities. 
Bike commute routes were employed most often to link 
communities to Logan and other population centers, and 40% 
of maps included bike routes alongside public transportation 
routes.
What percentage of workshop maps identified a particular theme?
Transportation:
East Side Corridor: 75%
Loops: 51%
Public Transportation
Link Communities: 64%
Along Public Transit Routes: 40%
bi ke Routes
Roads
North/South Bypass: 62%
East/West Connections: 53%
Conservation:
ag riculture
96%
Recreation
64%
vi ewsheds
25%
Ecology
81%
Participants glued paper “chips” onto the 
maps to identify housing preferences. When the 
dwelling units were tallied, about two-thirds of 
those used were in mixed-use developments, with 
the remaining third in single-use subdivisions.
ho using Trends:
si ngle us e
33%
Estate (5 acre): 2%
Large (1 acre): 5%
Medium (1/2 acre): 11%
Small (1/4 acre): 9%
Town Homes (.15 acre): 7%
Mixed-us e
67%
Cluster: 4%
Mixed-Use Neighborhood: 4%
Compact Mixed-Use 
Neighborhood: 15%
Neighborhood Center: 11%
Town Center: 20%
City Center: 13%
Publi C P RoC Es s  6
The analysis maps (four are shown here) compile all of the chips placed across 50+ maps at the public workshops, exploring broad trends and public preferences.
Workshop an alysis Maps
Most Frequently Explored la nd-us e
The most explored land-use patterns at 
various locations across the valley
ho using di stributions
Where participants located most new 
households
Employment di stribution
Where employment was envisioned
Mixed-us e di stribution
Where mixed-use land-use types were 
employed
What is a chip?
At the public workshops, participants used paper chips and maps of Cache Valley to 
identify preferred development locations and patterns. Each chip identifies a specific 
land-use (i.e. one-acre house lots, an office park, a town center) and associated 
dwelling units and/or jobs. The chips are scaled to the map, so the land area they 
cover on the map represents the actual land area they would cover on the ground.
Why not explore a “no growth” 
or “slow growth” scenario?
Because most of our growth is internal, 
assuming a “slow growth” scenario would 
mean denying the likelihood that people 
in our region will continue to have kids. 
While we don’t know precisely how much 
or at what pace we will grow, it is useful 
to plan for growth that is highly likely 
to occur. For this process, conser vative 
growth projections provided by state 
governments were used as a constant 
assumption across all of the scenarios. 
The variables were growth locations and 
patterns.
This report is available online at
www.envisioncachevalley.com

7  Envision Ca ChE v all Ey
The sc enarios
 sc enario a:  B aseline
al ternative Growth sc enario de velopment 
Alternative growth scenarios explore alternatives to baseline scenario growth and 
were developed using themes explored by the public. All scenarios assume the same 
number of people living in Cache Valley as well as the same number of jobs. However, the 
scenarios differ in several significant ways: location and type of growth, transportation 
investments proposed, and priorities for recreation and the conservation of natural 
resources and working farms. The next section describes ideas and concepts used in the 
four scenarios which follow.
General Legend, Ideas & Concepts
1. Growth & Employment
ne w Growth (Scenario A Only):
ne
w Residential (Scenarios B, C & D):
ne
w Employment (Scenarios B, C & D):
ne
w Mixed-us
e (Scenarios B, C & D):
2. Mixed-Use Centers & Neighborhoods (Scenarios B, C & D)
Mixed-us e ne ighborhoods:
Mixed-use neighborhoods include a wide 
range of single-family homes on a variety 
of lot sizes. Parks, trails, a church, a school, and 
perhaps a small market or café are within walking 
distance.
Compact Mixed- us e ne ighborhoods: 
Compact mixed-use neighborhoods feature 
mostly single-family homes on range of 
smaller lots, as well as some townhomes and some 
smaller scale multifamily homes. Parks, trails, 
a church, a school, and some small businesses, 
markets, and cafés are within walking distance.
ne ighborhood Centers :
Neighborhood centers blend numerous 
small businesses (offices, shops, and 
restaurants), compact housing (likely above 
businesses), and perhaps a small plaza into 
a compact area. This area is surrounded 
by single-family homes and townhouses, 
parks and trails, churches and schools.
Lower    Intensity    Higher
Town Centers:
Town centers include a larger 
business district and more compact 
residences (townhomes and apartments) than 
neighborhood centers, often sharing buildings 
two or three stories high. Parks, plazas, 
churches, and schools integrate into the center, 
as do single-family homes on smaller lots.
City Centers:
A larger regional center for commerce 
and living, city centers include a 
significant central business district as well 
as compact residences (mostly townhomes 
and apartments, many above businesses) 
often sharing buildings three or four stories 
high. The city center integrates parks, plazas, 
churches, schools, and some single-family 
homes adjacent to more compact areas.
3. Transportation
Scenario A
Cache Metropolitan Planning or ganization (CMP o)
2
030 Regional Transportation Plan Project List
Phase I  (2007 - 2015):
Phase II  (2016 - 2025):
Phase III  (2026 - 2030):
Scenarios B, C & D
Roadway im provements, Public Transportation,  
bi
ke Commute Route:
Roadway 
im
provements, Public Transportation:
Public Transportation, bi ke Commute Route:
Roadway 
im
provements:.
Public Transportation:
4. Land Conservation & Recreation (Scenario D Only)
bo
nneville 
sh
oreline Trail:
ne w Growth
New growth in Scenario A (Baseline) occurs primarily along the benches, 
especially near major transportation corridors. Many lots are typical in size to 
recent development trends, and many have large back yards. Land uses tend to be 
separated, though some communities create new neighborhood or town centers 
that integrate shopping, employment and housing.
What would Cache va lley be like in 2040?
The Baseline scenario is a picture of what the valley may look like if we continue 
to grow both where we have been growing and how we have been growing. The 
baseline simply projects the pattern of our past ten years forward into the future. 
It is by no means our most likely future, but it does give us a baseline to which other 
ideas, those that come from the public, can 
be compared. We can ask ourselves if we are 
heading toward the future we want or if we 
want to make some changes.
Transportation
Roadways are the priority, with almost 
all trips done by automobile. Local road 
systems tend to include more cul-de-
sacs and fewer grids. There is more 
privacy, but fewer roadway connections. 
Buses continue to run on the existing 
fixed route system. Because housing 
tends to be further from shopping and 
employment, few trips are made by 
walking or biking.
la nd Conservation
Water quality is conserved, with 
most water bodies, wetlands, and 
floodplains away from growth. 
Over time, working farms are 
impact by the extent of growth and 
fragmentation. Most communities grow 
into one another over time.
Recreation
This growth pattern emphasizes private 
recreation that occurs largely in people’s back 
yards.
Publi C P RoC Es s  8
The sc enarios
sc enario b:  E astside / Westside Benches
 sc enario C :  Town Centers / Clustering
 sc enario d:  U rban Centers / Rural Edge
ne w Growth
Scenario B focuses new growth primarily along the benches, especially near major 
transportation corridors. Many lots are typical in size to recent development 
trends, and many have large back yards. Land uses tend to be separated, though 
some communities create new neighborhood or town centers that integrate 
shopping, employment and housing.
Transportation
The road network is a priority, with a new bypass extending from Preston in the 
north to a point southwest of Logan along Highway 89/91. Buses operate about as 
frequently as they do today. Some trips are made on foot or by bike, though housing 
tends to be further from goods, services, and employment.
la nd Conservation
While many communities grow 
together over time, much of the 
valley floor is conserved. Farming is 
impacted by the extent of growth and 
increased fragmentation. Water quality 
is conserved, with growth happening 
away from most water bodies, 
wetlands, and floodplains.
Recreation
This growth pattern emphasizes 
private recreation that occurs largely in 
people’s backyards.
ne w Growth
In Scenario C, communities across the valley grow into traditional towns and small 
cities. Most feature neighborhood or town centers that provide for day-to-day needs 
and some employment. The centers have a range of housing choices, including living 
spaces above retail and commercial businesses. Overall, houses tend to be closer 
together.
Transportation
The road network includes a partial bypass road west of the Logan area as well as 
enhanced east-west connections. Enhanced public transportation loops serve most 
communities. New service may include peak hour vanpools, more bus routes, and 
more frequent bus service. Bike commute routes follow the public transportation 
loops.
la nd Conservation
Open lands keep most communities 
distinct and separate from one another. 
Working farms are impacted by growth 
at the edges of existing towns, though 
they remain largely intact in the valley’s 
center. Water quality is preserved, 
as most water bodies, wetlands and 
floodplains on the valley floor are 
conserved.
Recreation
Use of local recreation systems is high. 
Local systems may use trail loops to link 
parks and other recreational 
facilities.
ne w Growth
In Scenario D, existing eastside communities assume a compact pattern and absorb 
most of the population. Distinct city and town centers emerge. Most growth occurs 
within city limits by filling in vacant developable land and through land recycling, 
particularly in commercial areas. Westside/central communities experience some 
growth, perhaps in the form of small neighborhood centers providing for day-to-day 
needs and more housing choices. This growth pattern places a mix of jobs, shopping, 
townhouses and condos at the center of larger cities and towns with single-family 
housing nearby.
Transportation
Major streets are designed for a range of transportation choices: walking, biking, 
public transportation and auto use. 
A dedicated public transportation 
corridor is envisioned as part of an 
existing road right-of-way, extending 
from Preston through Sardine Canyon, 
linking compact centers along the 
valley’s east side to the Wasatch Front. 
The corridor may accommodate a street 
car or rapid busway (essentially light 
rail on rubber tires), and, over time, may 
transition to a light rail line. Many trips 
are made on foot or by bike, since most 
people live near services, shopping and 
workplaces.
la nd Conservation
The impact of development occurs on 
minimal acreage. Open lands 
separate most communities, and 
most working farms remain. Water 
quality is preserved, as water 
bodies, wetlands and floodplains on 
the valley floor are conserved. The 
edge between urban use to the east and 
rural functions to the west is distinct.
Recreation
The Bonneville Shoreline Trail serves as 
a regional recreation corridor. With most 
people living near the trail, it links residents 
to a regional system that provides access to the 
mountains, canyons and the rivers the flow out 
of them. With a regional network, there may be 
less emphasis on local recreation systems and 
more emphasis on local links to the regional 
system. (Note: The alignment shown is 
conceptual and not yet fully designated as the 
Bonneville Shoreline Trail)
9  Envision Ca ChE v all Ey
Comparing the Four sc enarios
Many of the measures selected to evaluate the scenarios 
reflect the issues that residents said were most important at 
the workshops. When scenarios were compared, residents 
gained a sense of some of the potential impacts of growth 
choices. For instance, different home types have different 
implications for growth. Single homes on large lots have 
more yard space but consume more land. Townhomes have 
smaller yards but cost less. Growth occurring beyond the 
edge of existing cities happens on rural land that tends 
to be less expensive. In contrast, the land cost of growth 
occurring as infill or redevelopment can be higher, though 
new infrastructure costs are likely lower. When land uses 
are separated, driving tends to increase, and when land uses 
are integrated walking tends to increase. Each of the choices 
that are made in regard to land-use has long-term impacts. 
Weighing those impacts ahead of making choices on the 
ground can help guide growth patterns that yield outcomes 
desired by citizens. Each of the scenarios include the same 
number of people and jobs, but they test different decisions 
regarding conservation priorities, housing and employment 
patterns, and transportation investments.
Transportation and ai r Quality
Hours Spent in the Car
(Relative to Baseline)
Scenario B Scenario C Scenario D
-3.6%
-3.0%
-4.7%
-4.0%
-3.0%
-2.0%
-1.0%
0%
-5.0%
Vehicle Miles Traveled
(Relative to Baseline)
-7.3%
0.07%
-10.8%
Scenario B Scenario C Scenario D
8.0%
4.0%
0%
-4.0%
-8.0%
-12.0%
Vehicular Emissions *
(Increase Relative to Scenario D tons/day)
20%
15%
10%
5%
0
15%
22%
13%
25%
Scenario A 
(Baseline)
Scenario B Scenario C
*CO, NOx, PM2.5, unpaved dust, exhaust, & primary, and paved dust
Non-Motorized Transportation (% Increase Relative to Baseline)
Scenario B Scenario C Scenario D0
5% 4%
11%
22%
10%
15%
20%
25%
Public Transportation (% Increase Relative to Baseline)
Scenario B Scenario C Scenario D 0
20%
0%
116%
131%
40%
100%
80%
60%
120%
140%
Private Transportation (% Decrease  Relative to Baseline)
Scenario B Scenario C Scenario D 
-2.5%
-3.0%
-0.3%
-2.2%
-3.2%
-2.0%
-1.5%
-1.0%
-0.5%
0%
la nd Conservation
Total Land Developable: 280 Square Miles (Cache County)
Scenario A (Baseline):
52 square miles developed
(41 of which are prime farmland)
Scenario B:
45 square miles developed
(25 of which are prime farmland)
Scenario C:
32 square miles developed
(18 of which are prime farmland)
Scenario D:
23 square miles developed
(9 of which are prime farmland)
Scenario B Scenario C Scenario D 
Infill and 
Redevelopment
3%
7%
11%
0
2%
4%
6%
8%
10%
12%
Square Miles Conserved
(Relative to Baseline)
Scenario B Scenario C Scenario D 
35
7
20
2930
25
20
15
10
5
0
ne w ho using
Housing Density*
4,600
4,200
5,000
5,400
5,800 5,856
5,194
4,788
4,666
Scenario A 
(Baseline)
Scenario B Scenario C Scenario D 
Res. Energy Consumption
(Total Annual Billion BTUs)
0 
50
100
150
200
Average New Housing Cost
(Today’s Dollars)
Scenario A 
(Baseline)
Scenario B Scenario C Scenario D 
250
$196,000 
$164,000 
$138,000 $124,000 
80% 20% 45% 65% 75%10% 10% 10%45% 25% 15%
Detached Attached Mixed-Use
sc
enario 
a
(ba seline)
Average Density:
1.4 du/acre
sc
enario 
b
 
Average Density:
1.7 du/acre
sc
enario C
 
Average Density:
2.3 du/acre
sc
enario 
d
 
Average Density:
3.3 du/acre
*Density - Average density per acre impacted by development
(Thousands)
0 
4,000
8,000
12,000
16,000 
Average Annual New 
Storm Water Flows (CFS)
14,531 
13,726 
10,152 
8,794
Scenario A 
(Baseline)
Scenario B Scenario C Scenario D 
0 
3,000
1,000
5,000
7,000
9,000
New Impervious 
Acres
8,343 
7,578 
6,281 
5,649
Scenario A 
(Baseline)
Scenario B Scenario C Scenario D 
New Average Annual Water Demand (Acre-Feet)
sc enario d: 3 4,262
sc
enario C: 39,283
sc
enario 
a
 (ba
seline): 51,959
sc
enario 
b:  5
1,668
Water Quality & ne w Water Consumption
This report is available online at
www.envisioncachevalley.com

Publi C P RoC Es s  10
Town ha ll Meetings and 
Feedback 
sur
vey
In May and June 2009, about 650 citizens engaged in the 
second major round of public events, participating in either 
one of 14 town hall meetings held throughout the valley or 
in an online feedback survey. In this round, the scenarios, 
including the baseline and the alternatives developed 
from public brainstorming, were presented and compared. 
Participants evaluated the scenarios, expressing their 
preferences regarding general growth patterns and the 
elements of the scenarios they most favored, ranging from 
housing and employment patterns to transportation priorities 
and conservation goals.
What di d Cache va lley 
Residents 
sa
y?
When asked to identify the most appropriate pattern 
for future growth, the growth scenario representing the 
development trends of the last ten years garnered 11% of the 
vote, while 89% opted for the alternative scenarios created 
with information from public brainstorming workshops. 
Scenarios that depicted most future growth occurring within 
existing towns and cities—without those cities growing 
together—received the most support. These scenarios were 
also preferred for the public transportation options that 
become possible with their respective land-use patterns and 
the natural resource conservation and farmland protection 
that is possible when less land is consumed for residential 
development.
Overall, more participants envision more compact growth 
than what has been built in recent years, with only 16% of 
residents desirous of a dispersed pattern of growth in the 
valley. Rather, there is significant interest in growing within 
existing cities and towns, creating mixed-use neighborhoods 
and centers (places with a variety of housing options and the 
ability to walk to schools, shops, restaurants, and, perhaps, 
workplaces). More than 90% of residents preferred at least 
some emphasis on mixed-use—69% preferred a significant or 
very significant emphasis.
Participants preferred a balanced transportation system 
that includes improved roadway connections, more public 
transportation options, bike routes, and pedestrian access. 
Conservation is a common goal, with 67% wanting to 
emphasize water quality, working farms and ranches, and 
protection of scenic vistas—including maintaining space 
between communities and preserving roadway corridors. 
Further, residents want local jurisdictions to work together 
to address growth issues, with 88% finding coordination 
important or very important. 
While most participants took the survey online or at a town 
hall meeting, an independent research firm also conducted 
a survey to obtain the responses of a random sample of 
the population. Responses were similar, though showing a 
preference for more limited changes than those of participants 
who received more information about demographics and 
market trends during Envision Cache Valley  events.
Cost
Scenario A 
(Baseline)
Scenario B Scenario C Scenario D 
Total New Local Infrastructure Cost, Today’s Dollars 
(local road construction and maintenance, culinary water, sewer, storm water 
does not include cost of schools and other services)
$1,200,000,000 $1,174,537,623
$1,027,915,005
$914,355,132
$849,495,968
$1,000,000,000
$800,000,000
$600,000,000
$400,000,000
$200,000,000
$0
Scenario A 
(Baseline)
Scenario B Scenario C Scenario D 
Annual Local Infrastructure Cost of Each New Household 
(local road construction and maintenance, culinary water, sewer, storm water     
does not include cost of schools and other services)
$800
$700
$600
$500
$400
$300
$200
$100
$0
$900
$789
$691
$614 $571
Results: Conservation / Recreation
Conservation/Recreation Priorities:  Preferred Scenario
Scenario D
Scenario B
Scenario C
Scenario  A
sc enario Characteristics:         
Conservation / Recreation
sc enario a
• S quare miles developed: 52 (communities grow together)
•
 F
armland developed: 26,091 acres 
•
 R
ecreation in backyards; trail loops/parks within brief 
drive
sc enario b
• S quare miles developed: 45 (most communities grow 
together)
•
 F
armland developed: 15,805 acres
•
 R
ecreation in backyards; trail loops/parks within brief 
drive
sc enario C
• S quare miles developed: 32 (many communities remain 
geographically distinct)
•
 F
armland developed: 11,206 acres
•
 L
ocal recreation (trail loops link parks/other recreational 
facilities) 
sc enario d
• S quare miles developed: 23 (most communities remain 
geographically distinct)
•
 F
armland developed: 5,746
•
 B
onneville Shoreline Trail as a regional recreation corridor 
(most live near trail) 
11  Envision Ca ChE v all Ey
Results: Transportation
Transportation Priorities:  Preferred Scenario
Scenario D
Scenario B
Scenario C
Scenario  A
sc enario Characteristics: Transportation
sc enario a
• R oads are the priority—more cul-de-sacs, fewer grids 
(fewer connections, more privacy).
•
 B
us routes are similar to today.
•
 S
ome walking and biking (housing farther from goods, 
services, employment).
sc enario b
• R oad network with bypass from Preston to near 
Wellsville.
•
 B
uses about as frequent as today.
•
 S
ome walking and biking (housing farther from goods, 
services, employment).
sc enario C
• P artial bypass road west of Logan with enhanced east/west 
roadway connections.
•
 E
nhanced public transportation loops serve most 
communities (new peak hour van pools, more bus routes).
•
 B
ike routes located along public transportation loops.
sc enario d
• W ider range of choices: walking, biking, public 
transportation, and auto use.
•
 D
edicated public transportation corridor.
•
 W
alking and biking more common (most live near 
shopping/work).
Results: Growth
General Growth Patterns:  Preferred Scenario
Scenario D
Scenario B
Scenario C
Scenario  A
Scenario D
Scenario B
Scenario C
Scenario  A
Housing:  Preferred Scenario
Grow inward or outward?
Communities should be allowed 
dispersed development; it’s okay 
for communities to grow into 
one another over time.
It’s okay for growth 
to happen in adjacent 
outlying areas, but 
communities should 
encourage inward growth.
Communities and the 
county should strongly 
encourage growth 
to happen inward; 
communities should 
not grow into one 
another over 
time.
Communities should 
be allowed to grow 
outward, but 
only in adjacent 
outlying areas.
69% of residents want 
significant or very significant 
emphasis on mixed-use 
development
How much emphasis should be placed on                                      
mixed-use development?
sc enario Characteristics: Growth
sc enario a
• P rojects recent growth pattern into the future.
•
 H
ousing is more dispersed across the valley.
•
 L
and uses are separated.
•
 A
verage housing density of developed land is 1.4 dwellings 
per acre.
sc enario b
• H ousing dispersed along the benches and transportation 
corridors.
•
 M
ost land uses separated with some new neighborhood or 
town centers.
•
 A
verage housing density of developed land is 1.7 dwellings 
per acre.
sc enario C
• M ost growth occurs within existing communities across 
the valley, in traditional towns and small cities.
•
 C
enters provide for day-to-day needs, some employment, 
and a range of housing choices.
•
 A
verage housing density of developed land is 2.3 dwellings  
per acre.
sc enario d
• M ore compact east-side growth, mostly within city limits, 
with distinct city and town centers.
•
 M
ix of jobs, shopping, townhouses and condos in centers 
of larger cities and towns, single-family housing nearby.
•
 S
ome west-side growth—centers with some services, 
more housing choices.
•
 A
verage housing density of developed land is 3.3 dwellings 
per acre.
lo cal Governmental 
Coordination
How impor tant is it that local 
governments coordinate while addressing 
growth issues?
88% of Cache Valley Residents think 
coordination is important or very 
important.

Publi C P RoC Es s  12
dr aft vi sion de velopment
The vision development process brought together the public 
preferences expressed at the town hall meetings and online. 
The Steering Committee identified themes that captured 
overall preferences, making sure that the themes accurately 
reflected public input. These themes were used to create 
the vision statement and vision principles. The preferred 
components of the growth scenarios formed the basis of a 
vision map representing one possible way that growth could 
occur if vision principles are implemented. The Steering 
Committee and Technical Committee reviewed and refined the 
vision, which was then presented to the Cache Valley Regional 
Council at a joint regional council and steering committee 
retreat. The vision is featured in chapter three.
Cache va lley Regional Council 
and Envision Cache Valley 
st
eering Committee Retreat
After the draft vision documents were created, the Cache 
Valley Regional Council and the Steering Committee 
participated in a retreat to review the process and the 
vision developed through the process. The group affirmed 
the process, affirmed that the vision is a reflection of public 
preferences, and affirmed supporting efforts to implement 
vision principles. The group also began initial discussion 
about how to act on vision principles, both locally and as a 
partnership of jurisdictions, to address valley-wide issues
vi sion sum mit
The culmination of the public events surrounding Envision 
Cache Valley, the Vision Summit held on October 13, 2009, 
enabled residents to review the Envision Cache Valley  process 
and, most importantly, its results: the Cache Valley Vision. 
More than 200 people joined local officials as well as Utah 
Governor Gary Herbert and Idaho State Representative Marc 
Gibbs at this event. 
Forum for lo cal of ficials: 
Moving 
be
yond 
vi
sioning
The visioning process is really just the beginning—only a first 
step toward realizing the future that Cache Valley residents 
desire. On November 17, 2009, more than 100 local officials—
primarily town mayors, council members, and planning 
commissioners—participated in a forum to begin the process 
of implementation. After reviewing the visioning process 
and the Cache Valley Vision, and hearing from other regions 
involved in vision implementation efforts, leaders engaged 
in community-specific small-group discussions, identifying 
local priorities and initial goals. Scheduled for February 2010, 
a follow-up meeting aims to continue the dialogue, fostering 
coordination among local governments to identify and address 
needs for education, policy updates, and intergovernmental 
cooperation.
Photo Series Source: www.cjpphoto.com
“Do you let [growth] 
happen haphazard, or do 
you do something about it?
It’s important that we 
do it right, 
to get ahead of the curve. 
Those who follow us will 
judge what we do today.” 
–Utah Governor Gary Herbert
13  Envision Ca ChE v all Ey
The Cache va lley vi sion
Envision Cache Valley  is an historic effort by leaders across 
the valley to listen to the preferences of citizens regarding 
future growth. The Cache Valley Vision is the product of this 
process, reflecting the ideas explored and preferred by a 
broad sample of the valley’s residents. The public expressed 
optimism and excitement for the future if growth unfolds in 
a thoughtful, efficient way. They foresee a future where there 
are more housing choices for people at different stages of 
life, more efficient transportation so they have more time for 
family and other priorities, active communities and cleaner air 
for a healthier lifestyle, good jobs to promote prosperity, more 
efficient development patterns that save taxpayer money, and 
continued opportunities to enjoy beautiful outdoor resources. 
The challenge will be to move beyond visioning, for the 
vision will only be realized as local governments and citizens 
translate the vision into specific actions.
The Cache va lley vi sion
3
Photo Source: www.flickr.com/people/8430129@N06/
ThE vi sion  14
Cache va lley vi sion st atement
Cache va lley citizens envision a future 
that embraces the character and 
quality of life that residents currently 
appreciate. 
ou
r communities are a 
source of pride and identity. We want 
to invest in our towns which have 
served us well as centers for living, 
industry and culture. We encourage 
most growth to happen in these 
communities, maintaining and creating 
safe, vibrant and rich places for future 
generations. 
ou
r communities will 
be sensitive to the varied needs of 
a diverse population—families, the 
young, the old, the workforce, and all 
others—providing viable housing and 
transportation options for everyone. 
What happens outside our towns 
is equally important. We value our 
natural surroundings—water quality, 
scenic beauty, wildlife habitat, clean 
air, agriculture, and outdoor recreation. 
We will maintain and enhance those 
qualities we enjoy today, while 
attending to those things that could 
compromise our quality of life and 
the health of those who come after 
us. 
by f
ocusing much of our future 
growth in existing municipalities, we 
will reduce the pressure on many of 
the features that make Cache 
va
lley 
great. Further, we will work together to 
maintain and enhance the agricultural 
and natural lands that sustain us.
Keep the country, country
Protect the agricultural and natural lands that sustain us.
Photo Source: davidsidwell.smugmug.com
Photo Source: Liz Peterson
Photo Source: library.loganutah.org/
Photo Source: www.flickr.com/photos/8430129@N06/
 Photo Source: www.flickr.com/photos/8430129@N06/
Keep the city, city
Invest in our towns—our centers for living, industry and culture.
This report is available online at
www.envisioncachevalley.com

15  Envision Ca ChE v all Ey
2.  Encourage mixed-use 
neighborhoods and town centers that 
include a variety of housing options and 
that allow individuals and families to 
live close to where they shop, obtain 
services, go to school, work and play.
Integrating a variety of housing options—as well as schools, 
recreational opportunities, civic functions, shops, services, 
and employment—has many community benefits and 
responds to emerging market demand. More housing choices 
enable people to live in the same community their entire life, 
if they wish, or move to one that suits their needs. Because 
services and employment are nearby, walking, biking, 
and public transportation systems are more convenient, 
increasing mobility for everyone. Overall, infrastructure is 
more efficient, reducing capital and maintenance costs and the 
impact on air and water resources. 
When contemplating mixed-use neighborhoods and centers, 
towns and cities should encourage growing inward over 
growing outward, emphasizing infill and redevelopment in 
already developed areas. Where growth is envisioned, housing 
options should be expanded to better meet market demand. 
Cache va lley vi sion Principles
1.  Enhance existing towns and cities 
and maintain individual community 
identity by encouraging inward growth 
and more compact development and 
buffering community boundaries with 
agrarian and natural lands.
Using incentives to encourage infill and redevelopment within 
towns and cities will strengthen existing centers of living, 
culture and industry while fostering a sense of community 
identity, if care is taken to plan development that is compatible 
with historic landscapes and architecture to preserve and 
protect the unique heritage and character of each community.
Using voluntary, market-based planning tools to encourage 
the preservation of working farms and ranches and the 
integrity of natural systems and scenic views will protect the 
lands that sustain us while safeguarding the most desirable 
characteristics of Cache Valley. Maintaining open lands 
between communities will enable them to remain distinct 
from one another and prevents them from growing into a 
single conglomerate over time.
General Growth Patterns, ho using, and Employment
Photo Series Source: www.flickr.com/photos/8430129@N06/
3% Infill,  
97% Greenfield  
(Scenario B)
0% Infill,  
100% Greenfield  
(Scenario A)
7% Infill,  
93% Greenfield
(Scenario C)
11% Infill,  
89% Greenfield  
(Scenario D)
70%
7% 10%
24%
60%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0
Survey Question:
More Infill  or Greenfield Development?
Survey Question:
What kind of access to civic spaces (libraries, 
parks, etc.) is most appropriate?
More frequent, smaller scale civic 
spaces (i.e., neighborhood schools, 
neighborhood parks, local libraries, etc.)
Less frequent, larger scale civic 
spaces (i.e., regional schools, 
parks, libraries, etc.)
74%
26%
This report is available online at
www.envisioncachevalley.com

ThE vi sion  16
3.  de velop clean and sustainable 
industry and good-paying jobs close 
to home.
Specific areas for economic development should be designated 
and prepared, and where job sites are envisioned, towns and 
cities should build efficient, business-ready infrastructure, 
addressing transportation, energy, water, broadband, etc.
 Underutilized or vacant land within existing towns and cities 
should be considered for compatible economic development, 
and a job center on the west side of the valley, perhaps near 
the State Route 30/23 junction, should be explored.
di d yo u Know?
Not that we’re Colorado, but...
In Colorado, disbursed rural residential 
development costs counties and schools 
$1.65 in ser vice expenditures for ever y 
$1.0 0 of tax revenue generated. 
In general, commercial, industrial, and 
working landscapes more than pay for 
themselves. Generally, residential growth 
costs more for governments to ser vice 
than it contributes in revenue. However, 
this changes when residential development 
assumes more compact patterns.
An Un s u s t ainable C yc le
Some local governments enter into an 
unsustainable cycle in which they approve 
disbursed development projects to 
generate new tax revenue in order to pay 
the costs of old development .
Source: American Farmland Trust
Survey Question:
How should shopping and employment relate 
to other land uses?
Some compatible 
employment & 
shopping should 
blend into where 
people live, play, and         
go to school.
Most compatible 
employment & shopping 
should be away from 
where people live, play, and 
go to school.
Most compatible 
employment & 
shopping should 
blend into 
where people live, 
play, and go to 
school.
Average Cost of Service Per Dollar of 
Revenue Raised
$1.40
$1.20
Source: American Farmland Trust
Cost of Services Per Dollar of Revenue Raised
$1.00
$0.80
$0.60
$0.40
$0.20
$0.29
Commercial & 
Industrial
Working & 
Open Land
Residential
$0.37
$0
$1.19
Mixed-us e Town Center de velopment
• m ultiple land uses exist in close proximity to one another
•
 s
mall parking lots tucked behind buildings.
Conventional de velopment
• s ingle-use areas are largely separated from each other
•
 l
arge parking lots.
What does “mixed-use” look like?
Imagine walking from the 
housing development in the upper 
right hand corner to the shopping 
center. How would you do it?
Imagine walking from the 
housing development in the upper 
right hand corner to the shopping 
center. How would you do it?
Photo Source: ©Regents of the University of Minnesota. 
Used with the permission of the Metropolitan Design Center.
Photo Source: ©Regents of the University of Minnesota. 
Used with the permission of the Metropolitan Design Center.
17  Envision Ca ChE v all Ey
5.  in vest in efficient infrastructure 
systems to serve existing 
communities and future 
growth. These systems manage 
such services as water, sewer, 
waste disposal, and energy.
Transportation and the cost of other infrastructure are 
significant municipal and regional burdens. The cost of 
infrastructure should be reduced by maximizing existing 
infrastructure and building new development more 
compactly—in a fashion that requires fewer miles of roads, 
pipes, and wires.
Cache va lley vi sion Principles
4.  Provide a balanced transportation 
network with improved roadway 
connections, enhanced public 
transportation options, and 
streets that encourage bicyclist 
and pedestrian mobility.
Roadway planning should be coordinated to maximize 
connectivity, to provide multiple routes to destinations and 
reduce congestion. These streets should encourage various 
transportation modes as appropriate, including walking, 
biking, driving, and public transportation. Pedestrian 
and bicyclist safety and access should be a priority, and 
bike commute routes should serve all communities. Public 
transportation options should be enhanced, matching 
the capacity of service to the local growth pattern and 
population intensity. For example, a bus rapid transit (BRT) 
line—often described as light rail on rubber tires—could 
serve the majority of the population, running between Hyrum 
and Smithfield and up to Utah State University. This line 
could transition to light rail if justified by future demand. 
Enhanced express bus service could run between Logan and 
Wellsville or Brigham City and between Logan and Preston. 
Enhanced peak-time bus loops could serve other Cache County 
communities, while peak-time van pools may serve Franklin 
County communities. Potential right-of-way needs should be 
identified early and set aside for eventual use.
Transportation and in frastructure
Photo Series Source: Cache Valley Farmer’s Market

ThE vi sion  18
Why is a balanced 
transportation network 
important?
Improved Connections...
• R educe auto congestion by providing multiple ways 
to get around.
•
 R
educe travel distances, especially important for 
walkers and bikers. Connected streets, for example, 
make it possible for kids to walk to school.
•
 R
eductions in vehicle congestion and miles traveled 
can improve air quality and give us more time for the 
things we enjoy.
More Transportation Options...
• P rovide mobility for more people, including children 
and the elderly. Kids can walk to school, for 
example, or an older person who no longer drives 
can take a bus to an appointment.
•
 S
treets designed for more transportation options 
improve safety for everyone using the transportation 
system. Those in cars and buses have a space 
designed especially for their travel, as do cyclists and 
pedestrians. While connectivity makes it possible for 
kids to walk to school, streets designed for walking 
make it safe to do so.
•
 A t
ransportation system that is conducive to walking 
and biking also encourages physical fitness and 
health.
•
 S
hifting even a small share of vehicle trips from 
personal automobiles to other modes measurably 
improves air quality.
a balanC Ed TRa nsPoR TaTi on nE TWoR K  is Co nnE CTEd ...
... and 
PRo
vidEs 
FoR
 a 
Wi
dE
 
Ra
nG
E
 oF
 
TRa
nsPoR
TaTi
on oP
Ti
ons.
What is a ba lanced Transportation ne twork?
Poorly Connected Network
Imagine a child walking or 
riding their bike from a home 
in the lower left of this photo 
to the school in the upper 
right. How would they do it? 
Would a parent want them to?
Photo Source: ©Regents of the University of Minnesota. 
Used with the permission of the Metropolitan Design Center.
Photo Source: www.wfrc.org
Photo Source: www.pedbikeimages.org / Dan Burden
Photo Source: www.blog.pps.org
Single-Mode System
Transportation 
systems designed only for 
cars make other options 
dangerous and less viable.
Multi-Mode System
Photo Source: www.pedbikeimages.org / Dan Burden
Photo Source: www.pedbikeimages.org / Dan Burden
Photo Source: www.pedbikeimages.org / Dan Burden
Transportation systems 
that include a range of 
choices provide safety 
and mobility for everyone.
Well-Connected Network
Photo Source: ©Regents of the University of Minnesota. 
Used with the permission of the Metropolitan Design Center.
Imagine a child walking or 
riding their bike from a home 
in the lower left of this photo 
to the school in the upper 
right. How would they do it? 
Would a parent want them to?
VS.
VS.
19  Envision Ca ChE v all Ey
Recycling the bi g-bo x
Underutilized parking lots and underperforming retail can 
be re-imagined as places not only for shopping but also for 
living and working. In this case, the old Kmart houses a small 
grocery store and several other retail shops. New streets make 
a large block more walkable, and a parking structure, wrapped 
with retail stores, restaurants, offices and condos, replaces 
the old parking lot. The space offers a place where people are 
comfortable walking in the shade of trees, working with a view 
of the street below, or meeting a friend at the corner bakery. 
For people who want to live nearby services and workplaces, 
this environment provides an affordable option. The 
development offers a housing choice that is inexpensive relative 
to a single-family home, and transportation costs are reduced 
because of proximity to services and public transportation. 
For cities, this type of development makes service delivery 
efficient and keeps infrastructure costs low. For the region 
at large, recycling underutilized spaces reduces the pressure 
to grow further out and creates new economic opportunities. 
Encouraging inward growth helps to maintain space between 
communities and can keep multiple towns from growing into a 
single conglomerate.
Rethinking the Town sq uare
The heart of most towns in Cache Valley includes a square 
containing a park, school or church. Today, the civic space 
remains, but retail and commercial space that fronts the square 
has often experienced disinvestment. As our towns grow, our 
town centers could become the gathering places they once were. 
Through the Envision Cache Valley process, residents stated a 
desire for more access to goods and services and a wider range 
of housing options close to home. A focused effort to revitalize 
the hearts of our towns could fill this need. 
This image, of a street fronting Wellsville’s town square, 
illustrates new life in a special part of town. When we rethink 
a town square, we can focus on providing space to address day-
to-day needs: a small market makes picking up food for dinner 
easy, a café becomes a gathering place to meet friends, and 
several other shops and offices could make running errands 
or even working in town possible. Second stories provide 
attractive housing that a new teacher, a young couple, or others 
with a modest income can afford. As our communities grow, we 
will be more able to support local businesses, reducing the need 
to drive out of town to meet many of our day-to-day needs.
Before
Massing
Before
ThE vi sion  20
After
After
This report is available online at
www.envisioncachevalley.com

21  Envision Ca ChE v all Ey
Cache va lley vi sion Principles
6.  Protect, preserve and improve air 
quality, water quality, wildlife habitat, 
agricultural land and the scenic beauty 
of Cache 
va
lley.
The use of tools to permanently protect, maintain, and 
improve the quality of floodplains, wetlands, wildlife 
habitat, scenic beauty, and agricultural lands should be 
encouraged, just as tools to focus growth within existing 
communities should be encouraged to reduce the pressure 
to develop in sensitive areas in the first place. Development 
should occur away from features like floodplains and steep 
slopes, which could pose a risk to public health and safety 
and diminish quality of life, and natural resource networks 
and connections should be maintained and improved. Scenic 
corridor preservation should be encouraged to maintain views 
along roadways into the valley and between communities. Air 
quality should be improved by reducing vehicle miles traveled, 
and sensitive landscape design should conserve water in 
developed areas. 
Preserving la nd in 
Cache va
lley
 na tural Resources, Working Farms, and Recreation
Survey Question:
Which statement best reflects the level and type of land 
conservation you feel Cache Valley should work toward?
Emphasis on water 
quality, working 
farms and ranches, 
and viewshed 
protection (more 
space between 
communities and 
roadway corridor 
preservation).
Emphasis on water 
quality and working 
farms and ranches.
Emphasis on water 
quality.
Survey Question:
Which of the following strategies do you most 
support for preserving working farms and ranches? 
Provide incentives 
to encourage 
landowners to transfer 
their development rights and build in a city 
or town instead of on their property, thereby 
minimizing the impact on agriculture.
Provide incentives to 
encourage landowners to 
cluster development on a 
small percentage of 
their land, thereby 
reducing impact 
on agriculture.
Use a bond or 
tax revenues to 
help preserve 
working farms 
and ranches.
No strategies should 
be used to preserve 
working farms 
and ranches.
Survey Question:
Which of the following strategies do you most support 
for preserving lands that, if developed, may pose a 
safety risk or undue expense to people (i.e. floodplains, 
wetlands, steep slopes)?
Use a bond or 
tax revenues 
to purchase 
critical lands.
Restrict 
development 
through codes.
Provide incentives 
to encourage 
developers to avoid 
developing on critical 
lands.
No strategies should 
be used to preserve 
critical lands.
Photo Series Source: www.flickr.com/people/farmersweekly/
ThE vi sion  22
7.  Maintain and improve access 
to recreation by connecting local 
recreational amenities to a regional 
network.
The bicycle and pedestrian trail network should be improved 
and expanded, with the Bonneville Shoreline Trail providing 
access to other regional amenities, including regional 
recreation centers, but also recreation in more natural 
areas, like canyon trails and the mountains. New regional 
recreation areas, including parks, greenways, and blueways 
should be created, with local recreation systems linking to the 
Bonneville Shoreline Trail or otherwise providing access to 
the regional network. 
8.  Expand local recreational systems, 
providing small parks located near 
where people live and linked by trails 
for walking and biking.
As towns and cities grow, access to recreation should be 
provided close to home. Small parks can provide nearby multi-
use space to accommodate a range of interests, from playing 
and picnicking to growing a garden. Trails and walkways 
should provide recreational opportunities for biking and 
walking as well as a means to get around without a car.
Survey Question:
Which recreational emphasis is most important?
Local recreation 
systems that 
link to a regional 
recreation system. 
The Bonneville 
Shoreline Trail 
provides access to 
parks, canyon trails, and 
other facilities.
Local recreation 
systems that 
mainly include 
small parks and 
trail loops.
Private recreation 
that mostly occurs 
in private 
backyards.
Photo Series Credit: www.photos.com
 Photo Credit: www.photos.com
Ensuring a high quality of life for current citizens and 
future generations will require close coordination 
among governments and ongoing citizen involvement. 
The Cache Valley Regional Council should meet 
regularly to provide coordination, leadership and 
resources to implement the vision. Education and 
training to better understand policy options and 
implementation tools will be especially important, as 
will the development of model tools that can be locally 
adapted and used. They should identify policies and 
incentives that could encourage growth into efficient 
patterns that save taxpayer dollars and safeguard the 
natural resources on which we depend. Municipalities 
and the counties should work together to implement 
regional-scale priorities, like the public transportation 
network and the protection of natural resources, which 
will contribute to accomplishing a desirable general 
growth pattern and a strong economy. 
9.  Encourage close 
coordination among local 
governments, school districts, 
universities, businesses, and 
places of worship to address 
growth issues and implement the 
Cache 
va
lley 
vi
sion.
This report is available online at
www.envisioncachevalley.com

23  Envision Ca ChE v all Ey
vi sion sc enario
The vision scenario maps featured on pages 25-30 illustrate 
one of many plausible ways that growth could unfold as 
the vision principles are implemented. Best viewed as a 
story rather than a prediction, the purpose of the maps is 
to highlight ideas embodied in the vision principles—from 
growing inward and maintaining communities that are 
distinct from one another, to safeguarding our agricultural 
and natural lands. The maps are not intended to be 
prescriptive. Individual communities could implement the 
principles in many ways to have both local relevance and 
meaningful regional impact. The vision maps do, however, 
enable comparison with the baseline scenario, providing a 
snapshot of potential benefits if the vision is implemented. 
They show reduced infrastructure costs, fewer vehicular 
emissions, reduced impact on farmland, and lower housing 
costs.
be nefits of the vi sion
Clustering Growth
While most growth is envisioned to occur within our existing 
communities, the impact of growth that does occur in the 
country can be minimized while providing attractive housing 
options and income for land owners desirous of subdividing 
their property. The first image to the right illustrates a typical 
subdivision, in which all of a parcel’s land is subdivided into lots 
that are large but also difficult to maintain. The second option 
presents an alternative for country living. Rather than building 
on ten-acre lots, house lots are between one-half and two acres, 
and homeowners share a common pasture, equestrian facilities, 
and trails. With large acreage maintained as a single expanse, 
including the drainages to the nearby river, the visual impact 
of development is reduced while water quality is preserved.
Clustering can be used to achieve many varied goals. In 
the case above, it affords recreational use and some 
benefits to water quality. In other cases, farmers maintain 
ownership of the remaining agricultural land, and real estate 
development finances further agricultural investment. In 
another, the agricultural land is sold to the homeowner’s 
association, which leases it to farmers who grow specialty 
vegetables and fruits, which then can be sold to local 
restaurants, or to the public at farmer’s markets.
Cost
Total New Local Infrastructure Cost, Today’s Dollars 
(local road construction and maintenance, culinary water, sewer,                     
storm water does not include cost of schools and other services)
$1,200,000,000 $1,174,537,623
$1,027,915,005
$914,355,132
$849,495,968
$1,000,000,000
$800,000,000
$600,000,000
$400,000,000
$200,000,000
$0
vi sionScenario D Scenario C Scenario B Scenario A 
(Baseline)
$875,485,640
Annual Local Infrastructure Cost of Each New Household 
(local road construction and maintenance, culinary water, sewer,                              
storm water does not include cost of schools and other services)
$800
$700
$600
$500
$400
$300
$200
$100
$0
$900
$789
$691
$614 $571
vi sionScenario D Scenario C Scenario B Scenario A 
(Baseline)
$588
Transportation and ai r Quality
Vehicular Emissions * Comparison
(Relative to Scenario D tons/day)
*CO, NOx, PM2.5, unpaved dust, exhaust, & primary, and paved dust
20%
15%
10%
5%
0
25%
vi sionScenario C Scenario B Scenario A 
(Baseline)
12.2%13%
22%
15%
Hours Spent in the Car
(Relative to Baseline)
-4.0%
-3.0%
-2.0%
-1.0%
0%
-5.0% -4.7%-4.7%
-3.0%
vi sionScenario D Scenario C Scenario B 
-3.6%
Vehicle Miles Traveled
(Relative to Baseline)
2%
0%
-2%
-4%
-6%
-8%
-10.8%-10.8%
.07%
vi sionScenario D Scenario C Scenario B 
-7.3%
-10%
Conventional Subdivision
Existing Parcel
ne w ho using
0 
50
100
150
200
Average New Housing Cost
(Today’s Dollars)
250
vi sion
$134,000
Scenario D 
$124,000
Scenario C 
$138,000
Scenario B 
$164,000 
Scenario A 
(Baseline)
$196,000
4,600
4,200
5,000
5,400
5,800
Res. Energy Consumption
(Total Annual Billion BTUs)
4,719
4,666
4,7885,194
5,856
vi sionScenario D Scenario C Scenario B Scenario A 
(Baseline)
Housing Density*
80% 20% 45%10%45% 65%10%25%
74%5%21%
75%10%15%
Detached Attached Mixed-Use
sc
enario 
a
 
(ba seline)
Average Density:
1.4 du/acre
sc
enario 
b
 
Average Density:
1.7 du/acre
vi sion
Average Density:
1.7 du/acre
sc enario C
 
Average Density:
2.3 du/acre
sc
enario 
d
 
Average Density:
3.3 du/acre
*Density - Average density per acre impacted by development
(Thousands)
ThE vi sion  24
be nefits of the vi sion
Water Quality & ne w Water Consumption
New Average Annual Water Demand (Acre-Feet)
sc enario d: 3 4,262
vi sion: 38,001
sc enario C: 39,283
sc
enario 
a
 (ba
seline): 51,959
sc
enario 
b:  5
1,668
0 
4000
8000
12000
16000 
Average Annual New 
Storm Water Flows (CFS)
9,757
8,794
10,152
13,726
vi sionScenario D Scenario C Scenario B Scenario A 
(Baseline)
14,531
0 
3000
1000
5000
7000
9000
New Impervious 
Acres
5,649
6,281 
7,578
vi sionScenario D Scenario C Scenario B Scenario A 
(Baseline)
8,343
6,039
la nd Conservation
Infill and 
Redevelopment
0
2%
4%
6%
8%
10%
12%
vi sionScenario D Scenario C Scenario B 
6%
11%
7%
3%
Square Miles Conserved
(Relative to Baseline)
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
vi sionScenario D Scenario C Scenario B 
21
29
20
7
Total Land Developable: 280 square miles (Cache County)
Scenario A (Baseline):
52 square miles developed
(41 of which are prime farmland)
Scenario B:
45 square miles developed
(25 of which are prime farmland)
Scenario C:
32 square miles developed
(18 of which are prime farmland)
Vision:
31 square miles developed
(16 of which are prime farmland)
Scenario D:
23 square miles developed
(9 of which are prime farmland)
Transportation and ai r Quality
Non-Motorized Transportation (% Increase Relative to Baseline)
0
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
vi sion
11%
Scenario D 
22%
Scenario C 
11%
Scenario B 
4%
Public Transportation (% Increase Relative to Baseline)
0
20%
40%
100%
80%
60%
120%
140%
vi sion
115%
Scenario D 
131%
Scenario C 
116%
Scenario B 
0%
-3.2%
Private Transportation (% Decrease Relative to Baseline)
-2.5%
-3.0%
-2.0%
-1.5%
-1.0%
-0.5%
0%
-2.4%
-2.2%
-0.3%
vi sionScenario D Scenario C Scenario B 
Clustered Subdivision
This report is available online at
www.envisioncachevalley.com

The vi sion
 General Growth Patterns, ho using, and Employment
 Northern Half
of Valley
0 1.5 3
Miles
0.75
25  Envision Ca ChE v all Ey
Big Ideas & Concepts
1. Growth
As we grow, most of us will live within existing municipalities. A more compact growth pattern emerges, as well as an 
emphasis on infill and redevelopment, which reduces pressure on outlying natural resources and farmland. Eastside 
communities will assume a more compact pattern and absorb a majority of the population as distinct city and town centers 
emerge or are enhanced. Westside and central communities also experience growth, with most featuring neighborhood or 
town centers that provide for day-to-day needs and some employment. This growth pattern places a mix of jobs, shopping, 
townhouses and condos at the center of larger cities and towns with single-family housing nearby. This approach responds 
to changing demographics and projected market demand.
• M ixed- us e ne ighborhoods - Mixed-use neighborhoods include a wide range of single-family homes and a 
variety of lot sizes. Parks, trails, a church, a school, and perhaps a small market or café are within 
walking distance.
• C ompact Mixed- us e ne ighborhoods - Compact mixed-use neighborhoods feature mostly single-family 
homes on range of smaller lots, as well as some townhomes and some smaller scale multifamily 
homes. Parks, trails, a church, a school, and some small businesses, markets, and cafés are within 
walking distance.
• ne ighborhood Centers  - Neighborhood centers blend numerous small businesses (offices, shops, and 
restaurants), compact housing (likely above businesses), and perhaps a small plaza into a compact 
area. The core is surrounded by single-family homes and townhouses, parks and trails, churches and 
schools.
• T own Centers  - Town centers include a larger business district and more compact residential (townhomes 
and apartments) than neighborhood centers, often sharing buildings two or three stories high. Parks, 
plazas, churches, and schools integrate into the center, as do single-family homes on smaller lots.
• C ity Centers  - A larger regional center for commerce and living, city centers include a significant central 
business district as well as compact residential (mostly townhomes and apartments—many above 
businesses) often sharing buildings three or four stories high. The city center integrates parks, 
plazas, churches, schools, and some single-family homes adjacent to more compact areas.
2. Designing Density
While most new residences will be single-family homes, providing an 
expanded range of housing choices is also important. Design makes a 
difference, enabling more intensive housing to blend comfortably into 
almost any neighborhood. Some ideas for townhomes, small multifamily, 
and apartments:
• B uildings relate to the street in the same way single-family 
houses do (similar setbacks/build-to lines).
•
 M
ain entrances face the street, engaging with the neighborhood.
•
 P
arking is in the back.
•
 B
uilding construction and materials are similar in 
quality to surrounding single-family homes.
Density without sensitivity to its surroundings.
Density designed with sensitivity to its surroundings.
The vi sion
General Growth Patterns, ho using, and Employment
Southern Half
of Valley
0 1.5 3
Miles
0.75
ThE vi sion  26
3. Land Recycling   
Existing communities can accommodate significant growth through land 
recycling. Vacant developable land can house new compatible development, and 
underused land, particularly in commercial areas, can be redeveloped. Imagine 
little-used parking transitioning to a vibrant space with a blend of shops, 
offices, and townhouses. Imagine an empty big box building transforming into a 
recreation center, senior center and a library. What if all of this happened on the 
same parcel? Creativity and flexibility will be hallmarks of reinvented spaces.
4. Existing Neighborhoods 
As new growth incorporates a wider range of housing choices, 
existing residential neighborhoods remain largely unchanged.
Land-Use Legend Overview
Residential
Residential areas range from large estate lots in less intense 
areas to townhomes in more intense areas.
Employment
Employment intensity refers to how many jobs per acre 
there may be. Office parks are most intense, followed by 
retail, heavy industrial, and light industrial.
Mixed-Use Neighborhoods and Centers
Mixed-use areas integrate a range of compatible housing 
options, shopping, and businesses into a walkable 
neighborhood or center. Residential and employment 
intensities can vary, ranging from the lower key feel of 
a mixed-use neighborhood to a vibrant city center. The 
majority of new households are established in mixed-use 
areas.
Big Ideas & Concepts
bE F oR E
aF TER
Lower    I ntensIty    H IgHer
Lower    I ntensIty    H IgHer
Lower    I ntensIty    H IgHer
The vi sion
 Transportation and in frastructure
 Northern Half
of Valley
0 1.5 3
Miles
0.75
27  Envision Ca ChE v all Ey
Big Ideas & Concepts
1. Improved Roadway Connections
As we grow and our street system expands, we will coordinate roadway planning 
to maximize connectivity, providing multiple routes to destinations and reducing 
congestion. The map features improved connections and capacity key to the 
regional road network. The inset below highlights the importance of local-scale 
connectivity.
1a. Connecting Local Roads
While local roadway connections are not 
illustrated on the regional map, the impacts 
of better local roadway connectivity are 
regional. Adding connectivity reduces 
overall congestion and provides multiple 
ways to get from one location to another. 
This decreases pressure on regional roads 
and is cost effective, reducing the need for 
expensive high-capacity, regional roadways.
2. Enhanced Public Transportation Options
Public transportation options will be enhanced to match the capacity of service to the growth pattern and population 
intensity in an area.
• bu s Rapid Transit  - 
 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT), basically light rail on rubber tires, will service 
the most urban areas of the valley, from Hyrum to Smithfield, with a spur to Utah State University. If justified 
by future demand this line could transition to light rail.
• E xpress bu s se rvice - 
 An express bus employs an efficient route with few stops and, 
therefore, a reduced drive time to its destination. Express buses would feature pick-up and drop-off points in 
larger towns. The map shows lines connecting Preston to Logan, and Wellsville to Logan. The Wellsville line 
could extend to Brigham City and proposed commuter rail servicing the Wasatch Front.
• E nhanced Peak-Time bu s lo ops - 
 Enhanced peak-time bus loops will serve many smaller 
Cache County communities, providing more transportation options when need is greatest.
• P eak-Time va npools - 
 Vanpools will serve smaller communities in Franklin County, 
providing an additional transportation option for the first time.
Expanded Major Roads
Expanded Minor Roads
Existing Minor Roads
(Light Grey Line)
Existing Major Roads
(Heavy Yellow Line)
More ConneCtions = 
More travel options & 
DeCrease D Congestion
Fewer ConneCtions = 
Fewer travel options & 
inCrease D Congestion
The vi sion
Transportation and in frastructure
Southern Half
of Valley
0 1.5 3
Miles
0.75
ThE vi sion  28
2a. The Existing Public Transportation Network 
Cache Valley is well served by its existing public transportation network, pictured at 
left. Key additions to existing service, as outlined on the large map and including bus 
rapid transit and the expansion of local and express bus service, signal more reliance on 
public transportation as a key long-term mobility strategy.
3. Bike Commute Routes 
Bike commute routes 
  p rovide a non-motorized, inexpensive and healthful transportation option, linking many 
communities in Cache Valley
4. Mobility for Everyone
The streets in our communities are 
important public spaces that can 
significantly enhance livability, safety, 
and mobility. When street design and 
operation are sensitive to context 
and to all of their users, including 
pedestrians, bicyclists, and those 
riding public transportation, we make 
the most of a valuable public resource.
5. Infrastructure Efficiency
When overall development patterns are more compact, infrastructure 
usually becomes more efficient. Fewer miles of water and sewer pipes 
mean lower maintenance costs. All else being equal, a smaller house uses 
less energy than a larger one. The road network is shorter, costs less to 
construct, and uses fewer resources.
Big Ideas & Concepts
Pictures Courtesy of Cache Valley Transit District
greater  DistanCe to 
HouseHolD = inCrease D 
inFrastru Cture Costs
reDuCeD DistanCe to 
HouseHolD = DeCrease D 
inFrastru Cture Costs
Map Courtesy of Cache Valley Transit District
 auto
lanEs
10’ (EaCh)
BikE
lanE
5’
 sidEwalk &
paRkstRip
4’ (EaCh)
Before
 auto
lanEs
10’ (EaCh)
BikE
lanE
5’
 sidEwalk &
paRkstRip
4’ (EaCh)
BRt
lanE
10’
BeforeAfter After
The vi sion
 na tural Resources, Working Farms, and Recreation
 Northern Half
of Valley
0 1.5 3
Miles
0.75
29  Envision Ca ChE v all Ey
Big Ideas & Concepts
1. Water Quality
Water quality resources identified on the map include water bodies, 
wetlands and floodplains. Safeguarding our water resources is important 
to maintaining and improving the quality and safety of our water supply, 
and keeping growth away from them reduces risk to public safety due to 
flooding. Our water resources also sustain birds, fish, deer, elk and other 
wildlife.
1a. Safeguarding our Water Resources
Major riparian corridors (as shown conceptually on the small 
maps at left) could become the focus of our water quality 
protection strategy. What if the Bear River and its tributaries 
continued to provide quality water for our region, along 
with recreational opportunity, unique wildlife habitat, and 
protection from flood hazards?
2. Working Farms & Ranches
Working farms and ranches identified on the map include lands with 
soils considered to be of national, statewide, or local importance, 
recognizing potential constraints, like a high water table or 
steep slopes. Working farms and ranches foster security and self 
sufficiency in our food system and significantly contribute to our 
local economy and the lifestyle and character of Cache Valley.
2a. A Network of Viable Farmland
The small inset maps at left depict agricultural parcels of 
160 acres or more (red), parcels between 40 and 160 acres 
(medium orange), and parcels between 20 and 40 acres (light 
orange). When combined with high-value farmland identified 
on the large map, possible benchmarks become apparent. 
What conservation goals make sense for our region? All high-
value lands 40 acres or more? All moderate-value lands over 
20 acres?
Wetland / Floodplain 
Combined
Lake / River
Wetlands
Floodplain
(Blue/Green)
(Gray)
(Light Blue)
(Dark Blue)
(*) Mapped agricultural lands in Cache County reflect analysis from the Land Evaluation and 
Site Assessment (LESA) handbook, approved by the Cache County Agricultural Advisory 
Board. Agricultural lands in Franklin County are based on soil classification(s) deemed 
suitable for agricultural use per USDA-NRCS Soil Data Mart.
High Value Working Land
(LESA Score 80 - 100 *)
(Medium Green)
Moderate Value Working Land
(LESA Score 60 - 79*)
(Light Green)
Data for Franklin County
Unavailable for Analysis

The vi sion
na tural Resources, Working Farms, and Recreation
Southern Half
of Valley
0 1.5 3
Miles
0.75
ThE vi sion  30
5. Rural Transition Zones   
Careful conservation efforts at the edges of communities provide 
a transition space from urban to rural land while also keeping 
communities from growing into a single conglomerate.
6. A View from the Road 
Scenic view corridors (as shown conceptually on the small inset 
maps at right) are lands immediately adjacent to the valley’s 
major roads, and they provide visual access to many of the 
lands associated with Cache Valley’s identity, from cropland and 
pastures to riparian areas and riverbeds. Scenic view corridors 
also provide a sense of separation between communities. If the 
quality of these corridors diminishes, the communities in the 
valley will begin to feel like a single conglomerate. Maintaining 
the quality of these corridors will likely require a range of creative 
solutions. Which make the most sense in your part of the valley?
7. Recreation 
bo nneville sh oreline Trail and the Regional                
Recreation 
ne
twork
With most people living within just a few miles of the ancient 
shoreline of Lake Bonneville, The Bonneville Shoreline Trail will 
become the backbone of the valley’s regional recreational network. 
The trail will link local systems together and provide access to 
other regional recreational amenities, like canyon trails or regional 
recreation facilities. The valley’s rivers also provide opportunity for 
a regional trail system, both on and alongside the water course.
lo cal Recreational s ystems
Local recreational systems are smaller in scale, enabling most 
residents to walk to a park or other recreational space from home. 
Parks and facilities are linked to one another by trails, bike routes 
and pedestrian-friendly sidewalks, and local systems are connected 
to the regional one.
8. Protected Lands / Critical Habitat 
Resources in the foothills, mountains and canyons overlap to a 
high degree. Combined, they represent critical wildlife habitat 
(key avian and large mammal species), scenic views, ground water 
recharge areas and lands used for recreation, hunting and fishing.
Critical Habitat
Protected Land
(Cross-hatch)
Big Ideas & Concepts
Rural Transition Zone
(Yellow)
Water Trail
Trail Linkage
Bonneville 
Shoreline Trail
Existing Bike Paths 
(Red Dotted Path)
Existing Trails 
(Black Dotted Path)
Parks
Proposed Trail 
(Orange Dotted Path)

31  Envision Ca ChE v all Ey
in troduction
The Envision Cache Valley process provides local leaders with 
a summary of public preferences in regard to future growth. 
These preferences are incorporated into the Cache Valley 
Vision Principles, which provide a bridge between the public 
visioning process and local action: each principle could be 
implemented locally in a variety of ways, to address both local 
challenges and valley-wide objectives. The Cache Valley Vision 
is realized to the extent that it is embraced locally.
The Envision Cache Valley process also enables leaders to gauge 
the impact of embracing the vision versus continuing current 
growth trends. The vision:
•
 F
ocuses most growth within existing towns.
•
 R
educes the acres of farmland converted to urban use.
•
 K
eeps most communities from growing into one another.
•
 R
educes the miles traveled and the time spent in the car.
•
 I
ncreases housing and transportation options.
•
 R
educes the cost of public services for taxpayers.
The valley and its municipalities can achieve these benefits as 
they implement priority strategies.
Because implementation strategies are voluntary, and each 
jurisdiction will have varied opportunities for realizing vision 
objectives, the suggestions in this chapter are intended more 
to generate conversation and the development of specific 
strategies by local leaders than to prescribe a specific set of 
implementation steps. Each jurisdiction will, in fact, need to 
create its own unique strategy. 
This chapter highlights some options for valley-wide action 
and county-level initiatives, as well as a potential municipal 
approach. Actual strategies will, of course, vary among 
municipalities, depending on specific priorities, existing codes, 
policies that are working well, policies that need improvement, 
and resources available.
The recommendations that follow briefly reference many tools. 
For further description of these tools, see the toolkit in the 
following chapter. 
General va lley-wide 
Recommendations  
(Engaging 
al
l Jurisdictions)
Increase awareness of the Cache Valley Vision and Envision 
Cache Valley Process. Continued awareness efforts through 
presentations, newsletters and other media will keep the 
vision top of mind and remind the public and local officials 
what the process was and what the results were.
Provide toolkit education and training. Some tools are 
already being successfully used in Cache Valley. Those using 
these tools should provide training to others who want to 
explore them. Other tools are not in current use or have not 
been used successfully in Cache Valley. Plan training sessions 
with outside speakers or field trips to better understand 
unfamiliar tools. The toolkit is provided in the following 
chapter.
Meet regularly. All Cache Valley local officials should meet 
regularly to identify mutual goals and timelines; share ideas, 
solutions, and challenges; and set measurable indicators for 
successful vision implementation. 
Develop valley-wide plans for systems that impact everyone.
Transportation Master Plan. To clean our air and save money 
and time for what matters most, we can: improve roadway 
connections and reduce congestion; expand multimodal 
transportation options; plan for needed capital improvements, 
right-of-way acquisitions, etc.; and tie in with EPA-driven air 
quality attainment plans.
Economic Development Plan. A plan to advance regional 
prosperity can: retain and attract high-quality jobs for valley-
wide economic health; reduce municipal competition for sales 
tax revenue and encourage focus on providing needed services 
and higher-wage jobs; reduce economic development pressure 
on outlying lands; and create business-ready sites that build 
on existing synergy and strategic improvements to existing 
infrastructure.
Critical Lands Inventory and Protection Strategy. To use our 
valuable and limited land most appropriately, we can: amass 
critical lands data at a single, accessible source; identify 
specific valley-wide priorities for critical lands protection (i.e., 
farmland with high LESA values, 100-year FEMA floodplain, 
slopes with grades exceeding 25%, etc.); and work together to 
employ a combination of tools to meet critical lands protection 
goals.
Regional Recreation and Trails Plan. We can enjoy our beautiful 
valley by pursuing strategies to plan and fund:  desired 
regional recreation facilities; a trail network that includes 
the Bonneville Shoreline Trail and, perhaps, a water trail; and 
connections between local networks and the regional system. 
The formation of a recreation district could be a part of this 
process.
Develop model tools. Identify needs for model policies 
and codes. Work from codes referenced in the toolkit 
(next chapter), from well-performing local policy, or other 
sources to create models that are widely adaptable to local 
municipalities. 
County-le vel 
Recommendations
Adopt the vision principles. Principles could be adopted as 
an addendum to a county’s general plan, or as a checklist by 
which proposed developments are evaluated. 
Update the general plan. The update ensures that the general 
plan and the Cache Valley Vision are in alignment.
Work with the cities and towns to explore and adopt 
shared land-use agreements. The agreement should provide 
a framework that enables the county and a municipality to 
successfully work through development proposals for county 
lands that are within a city’s area of influence, keeping 
in mind the goal of keeping the city, city and the country, 
country. Such conversations may include agreement regarding 
infrastructure extensions, annexation lines, transportation 
network connectivity, or other issues that impact the county 
and one or more municipalities.
Adopt a clustering incentive or requirement. Clustering 
enables a landowner to realize the real estate development 
value of the land while preserving large tracts of it for existing 
uses, whether agricultural, recreational, or ecological. 
Clustering also reduces infrastructure costs.
Work with municipalities to adopt TDR sending areas. 
Transferring a limited number of development rights from 
county lands to a nearby city would permanently protect 
outlying working landscapes while encouraging vibrancy in 
town.
Use conservation easements. When land conservation 
strategies are employed, use conservation easements where 
possible to preserve land and associated uses in perpetuity. 
4
Creating a Locally 
Relevant and Regionally 
Significant Strategy
Realizing ou r vi sion
REa lizin G ouR vi sion  32
sa mple Municipal st rategy
This sample strategy outlines a range of options a community 
could consider adopting, as appropriate for its particular needs.
Assumptions:
The sample strategy below assumes a mid-sized town in Cache 
Valley with a population projected to double in the next few 
decades.
Sample community existing conditions:
• Z oning that separates land uses and lot sizes
•
 N
ewer streets with limited connections to the overall street 
network
•
 S
urrounded by agricultural land, with other communities nearby
•
 A t
own center that has experienced some disinvestment
•
 L
ocation along a major regional transportation route
•
 H
ousing prices that may prevent people who have grown up in 
town from settling there
Sample community priorities:
• K eeping taxes low and quality of services high
•
 P
roviding more housing options and housing within walking 
distance of services, employment, recreation, and schools
•
 A
ttracting good paying jobs close to home, as well as providers 
of goods and services to meet day-to-day needs
•
 I
mproving the street grid and connections within the city and 
beyond
•
 F
ocusing growth inward and not growing into adjacent 
communities
General Growth Patterns
Adopt the vision principles. Principles could be adopted as an 
addendum to a city’s general plan, or as a checklist by which 
proposed developments are evaluated. 
Update the general plan. The update ensures that the general 
plan and the Cache Valley Vision are in alignment.
Work with the county to explore and adopt a shared land-
use agreement. The agreement should provide a framework 
that enables the city and the county to successfully work 
through development proposals for county lands that 
are within the city’s area of influence, keeping in mind 
the goal of keeping the city, city and the country, country. 
Such conversations may include agreement regarding 
infrastructure extensions, annexation lines, transportation 
network connectivity, or other issues that impact the county 
and one or more municipalities.
ho using and Employment
Designate a town center. This mixed-use area will provide: 
goods and services needed by residents on a daily basis; 
a good location for smaller businesses and offices and an 
expanded range of housing choices.
Adopt code to promote and implement a town center. 
A form-based code would offer flexibility to respond 
to market demand (which would influence use) while 
addressing the form of buildings, how buildings relate 
to one another, street design, and public spaces in a 
cohesive way. (A similar code could be used for larger new 
developments to create neighborhoods with neighborhood 
centers, or along public transportation lines to encourage 
developments that support efficient public transportation.)
Adopt code to allow accessory buildings in existing 
neighborhoods. Accessory buildings expand housing options 
while preserving the overall feel of residential neighborhoods. 
This action enables the city to accommodate more of its future 
population within existing urban fabric, reducing development 
pressure on outlying undeveloped land and reducing per 
capita municipal infrastructure costs.
Adopt a cluster ordinance. This ordinance would 
accommodate development in outlying areas while conserving 
existing agricultural land uses and avoiding growing into 
neighboring communities.
Participate in a regional revenue sharing program. This 
enables a more equalized tax base across the region and 
allows the city to focus on attracting high-quality jobs and 
providing services that residents need on a daily basis.
Create a local economic development plan. The process 
enables communities to identify needs and goals, to prepare 
business-ready locations, and to pursue business development 
that strengthens the local and regional economy.
Create the right environment for infill and redevelopment. 
Remove barriers to infill and redevelopment of existing 
urban land, and provide incentives to engage in infill and 
redevelopment projects.
Transportation and in frastructure
Participate in a regional transportation master planning 
process. The process can improve connections across 
the regional road network, identify long-term public 
transportation improvements, and identify biking and 
pedestrian routes.
Adopt street connectivity standards. Connected streets 
improve transportation network efficiency and reduce 
congestion.
•
 P
articipate in securing needed rights-of-way for planned 
regional networks
•
 C
onsider encouraging nodes of transit-ready development 
along major public transportation corridors
Adopt street design standards. Appropriate standards can 
provide safe routes for walking and biking and create long-
term value for adjacent property owners.
Relax parking standards. Enable market innovation to 
accommodate parking needs. Solutions may include shared 
parking or increasing on-street parking.
Adopt a carefully crafted, fair impact fee program. The 
program could charge the actual cost of extending public 
services to a development, shifting costs to the developer 
and new homeowners rather than making existing taxpayers 
responsible for assuming the cost of new infrastructure. 
Photo Series Source: drusilla.hsrc.unc.edu/imagelib/largeimages/asheville055.jpg
This report is available online at
www.envisioncachevalley.com

33  Envision Ca ChE v all Ey
na tural Resources, Working Farms 
and Ranches, and Recreation
Participate in developing a valley-wide critical lands 
inventory and protection strategy. Identify specific priorities 
and tools to accomplish goals. 
Adopt a critical lands overlay. The overlay restricts 
development on lands that could pose a threat to public 
health and safety. It may include steep slopes, fire-prone 
areas, wetlands, floodplains, or other geologic hazards or 
water quality areas. Often, the costs to develop such areas are 
prohibitive anyway.
Adopt an open space requirement and fee-in-lieu policy. 
An open space requirement enables communities to protect 
lands with cultural, ecological, or recreational significance. 
When development is proposed on lands without features in 
need of protection, a developer could bypass the open space 
requirement, build out the site, and fee-in-lieu funds could 
fund the protection of high-priority sites such as areas of 
cultural significance or identity, community “gateways,” or 
lands between communities along transportation corridors 
(to keep communities from growing into one another).
 Adopt efficient land-use patterns (see above). Efficient land-
use patterns in existing communities reduce development 
pressure on outlying lands, reduce vehicle miles traveled, and 
improve air quality.
Work with the county to adopt TDR receiving areas. 
Transferring a limited number of development rights from 
county lands nearby the city would permanently protect 
outlying working landscapes while encouraging vibrancy in 
town.
Participate in a regional recreation district. The district 
could plan for and fund regional recreation amenities 
including a regional trail network and regional recreation 
centers. 
Create a local recreation plan. The plan could focus on 
providing neighborhood and town-scale recreational facilities 
as well as identify trails to connect recreational facilities to 
one another and to the regional recreation network.
Use conservation easements. When land conservation 
strategies are employed, use conservation easements where 
possible to preserve land and associated uses in perpetuity. 
in tergovernmental Coordination
Participate in and support the Cache Valley Regional 
Council in identifying and meeting regional goals.
Participate in valley-wide initiatives that improve the quality 
of life for everyone: Initiatives may include a transportation 
master plan, an economic development plan, a recreation plan, 
and a critical lands inventory and protection strategy.
Share available resources. Post tools, especially educational 
materials or model policy, to www.envisioncachevalley.com to 
help other communities meet mutual goals.
Use available resources. Seek assistance and tools from 
other communities which are working toward similar goals. 
Take advantage of available assistance and training offered 
through: the Cache County county-wide planner, Cache 
Valley Regional Council, Cache Valley Metropolitan Planning 
Organization, Bear River Association of Governments, Utah 
State University, Utah League of Cities and Towns, Envision 
Utah, and the Governor’s Office of Planning and Budget.
Photo Credit: www.flickr.com/people/brettneilson
or ganizational 
Resources
Cache Valley Regional Council: 
This group of elected officials from Cache 
and Franklin Counties initiated the Envision 
Cache Valley process and can help coordinate 
implementation efforts ranging from identifying 
and addressing educational needs to initiating the 
development of valley-wide plans for systems that 
affect everyone.
County-wide Planner:
The county-wide planner (housed with the Cache 
County Department of Development Service) 
is charged by the regional council with assisting 
local communities with planning efforts. The 
county-wide planner is a source for training, 
model policy, and assistance with local policy 
preparation.
Other organizations that regularly provide 
education, model policy, and/or planning 
assistance:
•
 B
ear River Association of Governments
•
 C
ache Valley Metropolitan Planning 
Organization
•
 C
ache Valley Transit District
•
 U
tah State University and USU Extension 
•
 U
tah League of Cities and Towns
•
 E
nvision Utah
•
 G
overnor’s Office of Planning and Budget
REa lizin G ouR vi sion  34
What’s yo ur st rategy?
Developing a local strategy will take some time. Some 
communities set up joint work sessions for city councils and 
planning commissions to identify priorities, determine action 
items, and identify measures of progress. The materials that 
follow—some questions, a strategy worksheet, population 
projections, and some local analysis—provide a starting point.
Some questions to consider:
1.
 T
ake a look at the projected new households that your 
community is likely to accommodate by 2040. (Note that 
we tend to grow faster than projected, and that most 
growth is internal—our children and grandchildren.) 
If your community accommodates its projected 
population with current zoning/plans in place, 
what will it be like? What impacts will there be, both 
positive and negative, on your community and on the 
region? What challenges will your community face?
2. W hich vision principles should become priorities  
for your community to help address growth and create a 
desirable future?
3.
 T
hinking in terms of the priority principles you have 
identified,  what’s working well in your community? 
What’s not working well your community?
4. W hat actions need to be taken  to further current 
successes and address emerging challenges? These  
actions may relate to education, policy, coordination, etc., 
and they may be local or regional in nature. 
Photo Credit: www.photos.com
Population projections can be informative. If your community accommodates its projected population with current zoning/
plans in place, what will it be like? What impacts will there be, both positive and negative, on your community and on the 
region? What challenges will your community face?
Population
The 2010 dwelling unit projection is based on a household size of 3.12 persons/household. The 2040 dwelling unit projection is based on 
a household size of 2.75 persons/household. Both are rates projected by the Utah Governor’s Office of Planning and Budget (GOPB).
Cache County Source: Governor’s Office of Planning and Budget (GOPB), http//governor.utah.gov/dea/popprojections.html, accessed 10/23/2009
Franklin County Source: Idaho Department of Health
* Includes group quarters population (in Cache County, that’s 1,923 in 2010 and 3,999 in 2040)
ad opt vi sion  
Principles
West Valley City, Utah evaluates development 
proposals according to growth principles and 
objectives identified in a broad regional study. 
The principles, formally adopted by the city’s 
planning commission and city council, guided the 
city’s general plan update and are used along with 
other general plan elements to guide future land-
use decisions.
vi ew West va lley’s Principles at:
w w w.w vc - u t .gov/ i n d e x . a s px?n i d= 4 56

35  Envision Ca ChE v all Ey
This report is available online at
www.envisioncachevalley.com
The charts below illustrate some of the differences between the baseline map and the vision map in specific communities. 
(Remember that the baseline scenario projects recent trends regarding lot sizes and specific growth locations into the future. The vision 
scenario illustrates one way the vision principles could be implemented and reflects the preferences expressed at public workshops.)
an alysis of av erage de nsity
This chart reflects the average density of areas impacted 
by new development in eight different cities in both the 
baseline scenario and the vision scenario. One approach to 
implement land-use aspects of the vision could be to increase 
overall density across all of a city’s zones. Remember that 
the baseline reflects recent trends and doesn’t capture 
older development patterns in a city. Lot sizes in recent 
developments are generally larger than those of earlier 
decades. The vision may not be a significant departure from a 
city’s overall development pattern.
an alysis of the ab ility of Town Centers to ab sorb Future Growth
What if your city wants to preserve its existing zoning in most parts of town? Perhaps it makes more sense to focus a large share 
of new growth into a town center. The chart below depicts how a town center, either one square mile or one-half square mile in 
size, can absorb growth and create a vibrant place for working, shopping and living.
lo cal an alysis: Comparing the ba seline with the vi sion in se lected Cities
Baseline Scenario  
Land-Use
Vision  
Land-Use
Photo Credit: www.pedbikeimages.org
av erage de nsity Per ac re 
(gross density of areas impacted by new development)
Vision
6.8
8.4
6.1
5.2
5.6
2.4
3.1
1.7
Baseline Scenario
1.6
3.7
2.1
1.7
3.8
0.7
1.5
0.9
North Logan
Logan
Nibley
Hyde Park
Providence
Lewiston
Smithfield
Wellsville
Town Centers and Growth Comparison
(Analysis assumes average baseline density for new growth outside the town center)
North Logan
Logan
Nibley
Hyde Park
Providence
Lewiston
Smithfield
Wellsville
Town Center One-Half Square Mile in Size Town Center One Square Mile in Size
21.4
18.2
8.6
8.0
5.1
3.1
8.8
5.2
Average Density
6,856
5,832
2,762
2,559
1,645
977
2,806
1,673
Dwelling Units
11.5
11.0
5.4
4.9
4.5
1.9
5.1
3.1
Average Density
7,357
7,024
3,426
3,116
2,866
1,194
3,278
1,970
Dwelling Units
REa lizin G ouR vi sion  36
Worksheets
Strategy worksheet can provide a framework for discussion. 
The strategy worksheet below was used at the November 
2009 forum for local officials and can continue to be helpful as 
jurisdictions create their own implementation strategies.
it ’s ab out lo cal in novation
The vision highlights growth preferences expressed 
at numerous public events held throughout 2009. The 
implementation ideas expressed in this chapter are intended 
to spark conversation and creative solutions that are best 
identified locally and through the cooperative efforts of 
local jurisdictions. The vision is derived from the public 
exploration of growth issues and is an innovative means of 
accommodating growth and preserving a high quality of 
life in Cache Valley. Continuing to tap the ideas, values and 
dreams of citizens and local leaders and officials will lead to 
implementation initiatives that will ensure the quality of life 
contemplated by the vision. 
Photo Series Source: Andee Joy Duncan Photography
on line Resources
Download your own worksheet at 
  w w w.e nv i sionc ac hev alley.co m
This report is available online at
www.envisioncachevalley.com

The Cache va lley Toolkit
The Cache Valley Vision could be implemented in a variety of 
ways to meet both local and valley-wide objectives. Because 
implementation is voluntary, and opportunities for realizing 
vision objectives will vary across communities, the creation 
of a toolkit assumes that specific implementation techniques 
may also range widely from one jurisdiction to another. A 
community can pick and choose the tools that best fit its 
unique situation.
In general, solutions will more likely be found by employing 
a combination of tools and providing more flexibility and 
choices than currently available. The toolkit included in the 
following pages is a starting point. The previous chapter 
drew on it to outline possible valley-wide, county, and 
municipal strategies. It is likely to expand as jurisdictions 
across the region identify or create additional tools that will 
enable them to meet their goals. The intent of the toolkit is to 
provide an initial set of resources: a wide range of tools that 
are successfully used in other communities to achieve goals 
similar to Cache Valley Vision Principles. 
The toolkit currently contains 30 tools. As it grows, additional 
tools will be located at www.envisioncachevalley.com. Most 
tool discussions contain a description of the tool, a case study 
highlighting its use, and a list of sources for model policy or 
further reading. Online, these lists link directly to source 
material wherever possible. 
Photo Source: www.flickr.com/people/8430129@N06/37  Envision Ca ChE v all Ey
im plementation Toolkit
5
The Toolkit Matrix
The toolkit matrix provides a 
quick, one-page list of the tools 
available in this chapter while also 
indicating issues the tools address. 
Many tools address multiple vision 
principles, while others are targeted 
to more narrow purposes.
Cache va lley vi sion im plementation Toolkit: Tool Matrix
vi sion Principle Category
im plementation Tools
Inventory of Critical Lands
Accessory Buildings
Affordable Housing
Bus Rapid Transit (BRT)
Clustering
Community Gardens
Critical Lands Overlay Zone
Development Standards
Down Zoning
Economic Development Plan
Farmland Preservation
Flexible Lot Size Policy
Form-Based Code
Impact Fees
Infill and Redevelopment: Parking Lots, Big Boxes, Dead Malls
Intergovernmental Coordination
Mixed-Use Zoning
Open Space Requirements and Fee-in-Lieu Programs
Parking Policy
Public Outreach and Education
Purchase of Development Rights (PDR), Bonds, Land Trusts
Recreation Districts
Revenue Sharing/Balancing Economic Growth
Street Connectivity
Street Design Standards
Transfer of Development Rights (TDR)
Transit Ready and Transit-Oriented Development (TOD)
Transportation Master Plan
Urban Containment
Water Efficient Design Guidelines
Natural Resources, Working Farms, and Recreation
Intergovernmental Coordination
General Growth, Housing, and Employment
Regional
Transportation and Infrastructure
Municipal
This report is available online at
www.envisioncachevalley.com
iMP lE ME nTaTi on Tool KiT  38
ac cessory bu ildings
Accessory buildings in a residential context are separate dwelling 
spaces within the same lot as the primary dwelling and include a 
kitchen and bathroom. Accessory dwellings include, but are not limited 
to, basement apartments, above the garage living spaces, and separate, 
smaller structures on the same property. The benefits of accessory 
dwellings, both to the individual and the community, are multiple.
Accessory buildings help accommodate a growing population in 
neighborhoods without the addition of apartment buildings or other 
multifamily attached structures. Detached “granny flats” and basement 
apartments allow multigenerational family living situations. Aging 
parents or adult children can live nearby while helping to make 
house payments. Such structures also provide opportunities for the 
elderly to age in place and live near their children. Young families can 
help pay the mortgage with additional income from a student renter. 
Accessory buildings also benefit municipalities. Often they do not 
require additional water, sewer and electrical connections, allowing 
a community to grow without additional infrastructure costs.
Nationally, regulations regarding accessory buildings range from strict 
prohibition to express allowance in residential zones. Rapidly growing 
municipalities with growth boundaries, such as Santa Cruz, California, 
and Portland, Oregon, expressly permit accessory dwellings in all 
residential zones. Many regulations limit the number of people allowed 
in the accessory unit. Some regulations state that the occupant of an 
af fordable ho using
The generally accepted definition of affordable housing is living quarters 
that require less than 30% of median household income. In many instances, 
it is students, civil servants and teachers who require affordable housing. 
Sometimes citizens fear that an increase in lower income households will 
lower property values and increase crime, but often, the availability of 
affordable housing means that one’s children can grow into adulthood in 
the same community in which they were raised, or others can downsize 
as they age without leaving their neighborhood and support structure.
Zone for More Housing Options
Perhaps the easiest way to create more affordable housing is to update 
the zoning code to include a more diverse set of housing options. By 
allowing developers to create more housing options in their projects, 
by being more flexible with accessory structures, and by mixing 
attached and detached residential units, more diversity is achieved. 
The townhomes, apartments and accessory dwellings that come 
from this process are often more affordable than the single family 
detached units that are the norm. Such action also has the benefit of 
allowing, rather than prohibiting, a solution that reduces government 
intervention in the marketplace. Finally, blending various housing 
types has a stabilizing effect in a community and is a better alternative 
to creating concentrations of low-income housing in a single area.
accessory unit must either be related to, or a caregiver of, the resident of 
the primary dwelling. In many cases, the owner must occupy the main 
structure, a measure designed to preserve a neighborhood’s character 
and stability. A municipality must consider its own character and the 
sentiments of its citizens when creating an accessory dwelling unit policy.
Like many other programs that increase overall density and provide 
increased housing options, allowing accessory residential units may 
raise fears about the character of a neighborhood. More renters have the 
potential to change quiet, family-oriented neighborhoods. However, a 
nationwide study conducted in Canada in the 1990s (Research Division of 
Canada Mortgage and Housing) concluded that more than half of accessory 
unit occupants were either friends or family of the primary occupant. The 
study also showed that most residents of accessory units had moved into 
them because they wanted lower-cost housing in quiet, family-oriented 
neighborhoods. In Vancouver, where some 30% of lots contain an accessory 
unit, family-oriented residential neighborhoods remain pervasive. 
The Canadian study also demonstrates that as communities age, 
accessory use increases. Unregulated, illegal accessory uses may pose 
hazards to their occupants. Legalization helps to ensure the quality 
and character of accessory buildings and spaces by ensuring code 
enforcement. Neighborhood character can be further ensured by 
requiring that the primary dwelling be owner occupied. Tenants are 
less likely to be problematic when their landlords live next door.
Affordable Housing Mandates
A more proactive approach to providing affordable housing is to 
mandate a percentage of new and redeveloped residential property 
to be a certain rental or purchase price. This price is usually 
determined by calculating 30% of the lower end income in the area. 
One advantage of this type of legislation is that it spreads low-income 
homes throughout the community instead of isolating them into 
small areas, thus reducing or eliminating any negative effects.
Affordable Housing Bonus Density
Mandate is not the only means to achieve a higher percentage of 
affordable housing. Many communities offer density bonuses to 
developers when they include a certain percentage of affordable 
housing units in new developments. Such legislation removes the heavy 
handedness associated with mandates, while still providing more 
economic diversity. Bonuses, however, are less effective than mandates 
when it comes to creating sheer numbers of affordable homes.
Demonstration Projects
In some cases, legislation and bonuses do not provide the degree of 
affordable housing a community is seeking. In this case, demonstration 
projects are a useful tool in jump-starting a community’s affordable 
housing program. Demonstration projects are joint ventures between 
a government and local builders. The organizations work together to 
find cost cutting measures that result in lower-cost homes. Though 
there is usually not any federal funding for such projects, the federal 
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the 
As Cache Valley continues to grow, creative solutions will be needed 
to incorporate new residents with a range of housing needs, while 
preserving the character of the valley’s communities. Accessory dwellings 
provide an additional housing option without greatly increasing the 
cost of municipal services or altering the character of neighborhoods. 
National Association of Home Builders have a great deal of advice 
to offer for affordable housing demonstration projects. Once a 
demonstration project is complete, the community has not only a 
vision, but a road map to future affordable housing projects.
Often, young people, empty nesters, and the elderly desire or require 
different housing options than what is readily available. Our teachers and 
our firemen are better served by living in the communities they serve. By 
creating more options for more affordable housing, we can create cohesive 
communities where individuals can live out the course of their lives.
Residential home with a “granny flat” in the rear.
In the city of Lacey, Washington, affordable housing needs were not 
being met according to federal mandate. A joint venture between 
the city and a local construction company (Phillips Homes) created 
a demonstration housing project providing almost 200 homes. 
Construction costs were reduced by $7,396 (1986 Dollars) per unit as 
a result of the private-public partnership. With these savings and quick 
sales, project investments were quickly recouped.
Case st udy
39  Envision Ca ChE v all Ey
w w w. e n v i s i o n c a c h e v a l l e y. c o m
•	 City	of	Arlington,	Virginia.	Zoning	Ordinance	Elements	of	
Accessory	Dwellings
•	 Research	Division	of	Canada	Mortgage	and	Housing	
Corporation.	Accessory	Apartments:	Characteristics,	Issues	
and	Opportunities	(1991)
•	 U.S.	Department	of	Housing	and	Urban	Development	Office	
of	Policy	Development	and	Research.	Accessory	Dwelling	
Units:	Case	Study	(2008)	
•	 City	of	Santa	Cruz,	California.	Accessory	Dwelling	Unit	
Manual	
•	 City	of	Portland,	Oregon.	Accessory	Dwelling	Unit	Program	
Guide
w w w. e n v i s i o n c a c h e v a l l e y. c o m
•	 City	of	Lake	Forest,	Illinois.	Affordable	Housing	Code
•	 State	of	Florida.	Density	Bonus	for	Affordable	Housing	(Code)	
•	 State	of	Utah.	Low-Income	Housing	Tax	Credit	(Code)
•	 State	of	Idaho.	Idaho	Housing	Trust	Fund	(Code)
•	 U.S.	Department	of	Housing	and	Urban	Development	Office	
of	Policy	Development	and	Research.	The	Affordable	Housing	
Demonstration:	A	Case	Study

bu s Rapid Transit
Bus rapid transit (BRT) is a higher capacity, lower-cost public 
transportation option that offers the efficiency and convenience of light 
rail, but uses buses. Several operational features make BRT successful. A 
dedicated bus lane, a fixed guideway, and/or signal priority improve trip 
times, as do scheduled stops (as opposed to user-requested stops). Many 
BRT systems incorporate elevated stations and specialized buses for a 
light rail feel and to improve boarding time and convenience. Off-bus fare 
collection speeds up the process, as the bus is not required to wait for 
users to pay as they get on. Many BRT systems run along specific, high-
use routes and incorporate a system of “feeder” buses that conform to 
more traditional bus operation policies. The combination of some or all 
of these elements allows for faster and more reliable bus service than 
conventional bus routes. Increased efficiency and reliability attracts 
more riders to the system and helps reduce overall traffic congestion. 
While BRT operates in a similar fashion to light rail, BRT capital 
costs are significantly less than rail because they do not require the 
purchase of train cars or the installation of rail. Operational costs 
are also typically less than light rail, though study results have been 
somewhat mixed. BRT routes can be more flexible than some other 
transit modes, adjusting as communities change or better planning 
data becomes available. Some BRT systems are built as a stepping 
stone to light rail or higher capacity service. In this case, stations, 
alignments, and rights-of-way can be planned to accommodate both 
the initial BRT system and the light rail system planned to replace it. Clustering
Cluster development, sometimes referred to as a conservation subdivision, 
is a practice that preserves critical lands, farmland, or recreational 
space, usually in conjunction with the residential development of a 
greenfield (land that has not been previously developed). While gross 
density on a parcel remains the same, overall lot sizes are reduced in 
favor of setting aside acreage for conservation. Instead of developing 
40, one-acre lots on 40 acres of land, for example, a developer may 
In Eugene and neighboring Springfield, Oregon, a full-service BRT line 
connects the two cities. The area served is home to about 200,000 
residents, a population Cache Valley will reach within the Envision Cache 
Valley 2040 planning horizon. The system uses dedicated busways, 
signal priority, near-level boarding, and off-bus fare collection. The first 
line (known as the Green Line) replaced a popular regular bus route 
between the two cities. Since the conversion, ridership has doubled. 
instead conserve 20 acres and develop 40 lots averaging a half-acre in 
size on the remaining 20 acres of land. Permitting flexible lot sizes and 
eliminating minimum lot size requirements make clustering possible.
A city or county may wish to provide cluster development as an option 
or a requirement when accepting subdivision plats. Density bonuses 
may be used to incentivize cluster development, or the economic benefit 
to a developer may be so apparent that an incentive isn’t necessary. 
Homes with nearby open space are usually worth more than those 
without. In many cases, this proximity to open space makes up for the 
value lost in reducing lot sizes. Clustering also makes service delivery 
easier and less expensive, as fewer miles of pipes and lines are needed 
to extend services to a smaller area. On the conservation side, lands 
set aside for non-development use may be candidates for permanent 
conservation easements. In every case, the conservation intent of 
non-developed land should be clear—not simply developmental leftovers. 
Clustering is not a panacea for the problems associated with suburban 
growth. Infill development in existing urbanized areas can be 
more beneficial in terms of providing efficient municipal services 
and avoiding greenfield development. However, when greenfield 
development is occurring, clustering is an option that protects critical 
lands and provides residents with a stronger connection to the land.
Using a combination of curbside, queue jump and dedicated bus lanes, 
with the curbside lanes being at grade, the new system did not require 
purchasing of right-of-way, keeping costs down. Construction of the 
line, including the purchase of specialized BRT buses, cost about $25 
million, or $6.25 million per mile, a relative bargain compared to the $62.5 
million per mile light rail cost in nearby Portland, or the $42.4 million 
per mile cost of TRAX in Salt Lake City (Urban Transport Fact Book).
Photo Credit: Lane Transit District (Eugene, Oregon)
Eugene Oregon’s EmX BRT service makes boarding 
easy with level bus loading.
A clustered plat created by the University of Idaho.
Photo Credit: University of Idaho Community Design & Planning
Hidden Springs, Idaho, located 20 minutes north of Boise, is a 
greenfield development based on the cluster model. The site pre-
serves 800 acres of farmland, wildlife habitat, and recreation areas. 
Developed areas house hundreds of residents and feature a town 
center with a school, café, shop, and post office.
Case st udy
iMP lE ME nTaTi on Tool KiT  40
w w w. e n v i s i o n c a c h e v a l l e y. c o m
•	 National	BRT	Institute.	Home	Page
•	 Metro	Magazine	(reproduced	online	at	the	National	BRT	
Institute	website).	Matrix	of	BRT	cities	and	characteristics
•	 Bus	Rapid	Transit	Policy	Center.	Home	Page
•	 Federal	Transit	Administration.	Bus	Rapid	Transit	Page
•	 Urban	Transport	Fact	Book.	Light	Rail	Costs	Approach	$70	
Million	per	Mile	in	2000	(Light	Rail	Cost	Chart)
•	 Lane	Transit	District.	About	EmX	BRT	
•	 Bus	Rapid	Transit	Policy	Center.	Eugene	EmX	Info	Page
•	 Fort	Collins,	Colorado.	Mason	Corridor	BRT
w w w. e n v i s i o n c a c h e v a l l e y. c o m
•	 Mega,	Mathew,	Barbara	Lukermann	and	Robert	Sykes	for	
The	University	of	Minnesota	Extension.	Residential	Cluster	
Development	
•	 Thurston	County,	Washington.	Rural	Cluster	Development	
Code	(Links	Page)
•	 University	of	Illinois	Extension:	Local	Community	Resources.	
Cluster/Conservation	Development	Fact	Sheet
•	 University	of	Wisconsin	Extension.	Model	Ordinance	for	
Conservation	Subdivision	
•	 Town	of	Cary,	North	Carolina.	Conservation	Subdivision	
Design
•	 Walworth	County,	Wisconsin.	Conservation	Subdivision	
Ordinance
•	 Farmington,	Utah.	Sample	Application	for	a	Conservation	
Subdivision	Permit
•	 Hidden	Springs,	Idaho	(development	near	Boise)

Community Garden
Community gardens give people the opportunity to grow their own food 
by offering garden plots to those who may not have their own yards or the 
space they need to garden. Community garden programs range widely in 
scale, scope and expense. Gardens can provide a source of fresh local food, 
build community, create volunteer opportunities, provide youth programs, 
and teach valuable agricultural skills. When community gardens operate 
on a volunteer basis or use land temporarily, they can be fairly inexpensive.
Wasatch Community Gardens is a non-profit that operates several 
community gardens in Salt Lake City and helps other communities 
develop community garden programs. Always innovative, the group 
created the Portable People’s Garden in 2009. The garden exists 
entirely in large, raised planter boxes and resides in an urban vacant 
lot. Once the lot is ready for development, the garden can be moved 
to a new location with little trouble. A portable garden allows for the 
practice of community gardening without having to purchase land. 
Portable or more permanent community gardens can be a useful tool 
where land is underutilized or transitioning between uses. Vacant lots 
within existing neighborhoods could house a garden until the space is 
desired for infill development. Big box and strip commercial areas with 
excess parking could accommodate a portable garden, though existing 
impermeable surfaces and water availability could pose challenges. 
Institutions with excess lawn—perhaps in university or business 
park settings—could repurpose some land for agricultural use.
The degree of investment a government makes in community gardens 
can vary widely. In Portland, Oregon, a city-funded community 
garden organization maintains a staff, holds classes, and leases 
plots. As in Portland, community gardens can be a part of other city 
open space programs, alongside parks and trails. Cities can also 
make use of existing, underutilized resources: proposed legislation 
in Salt Lake County would make it easier for gardening (as well as 
larger scale agriculture) to occur on vacant, county-owned land. 
Costs to create and maintain agricultural functions would be the 
responsibility of interested citizens with winning proposals.
Critical la nds ov erlay zo ne
An overlay zone is a zoning area that is placed on top of one or more (or 
part of) existing zones. The rules of the zones already in place still apply. 
Overlay zones place special regulations on an area due to special needs, 
like the creation of an entertainment district or watershed protection. In 
many cases overlay zones add an extra layer of protection for critical lands. 
In the case of Cache Valley, overlay zones may protect sensitive areas 
by following one of two tracks. First, overlay zones can be used to 
mitigate the effects of development where it might occur in the sensitive 
areas themselves. Second, they can limit or restrict development on 
critical land, perhaps by incentivizing development elsewhere.
When overlay zoning is used directly in the protection of critical lands, it 
most often takes place in an area where development will likely occur and 
where sensitive environmental features exist. If this were a residential 
zone near a floodplain, the overlay zone may dictate extra setbacks, a 
limitation on the amount of impervious surface created, or a reduced 
density standard. Overlay zones may be used to protect ridgelines, working 
farms and ranches, wildlife corridors, riparian areas, groundwater 
recharge areas and many other environmentally sensitive features.
Overlay zones could be used to create greater allowable density in 
areas where it makes sense. For example, a public transit corridor 
overlay (perhaps only one block wide) could allow for greater 
building height or increased density to encourage ridership along 
a transit route. Designating land for more intensive development 
in such areas can reduce pressure on sensitive sites.
Overlay zones can also communicate and limit potential risks to 
owners, buyers and developers. Geological hazard or environmental 
hazard overlay zones may specify inherent dangers of a property 
due to flooding, landslides, avalanches, wildfire, or other land-
based potential dangers. While such zones may decrease property 
values, they help to inform the public of risk and encourage safe 
living environments. Overlay zones informing people of potential 
dangers also help prevent law suits and property disputes.
Overlay zones are adopted just like regular zones. Since zoning 
likely already exists in the proposed area, overlay zoning may seem 
like unnecessary government regulation. In creating an overlay 
zone, it is important to define a clear and specific purpose for the 
zone. Good data about water quality or wildlife habitat may make 
the difference between an overlay zone being viewed as a reasonable 
protection instead of capricious legislation. The zone must be clear 
to the landowners as well. Specific purpose and clear detail about 
what is required assist not only in the adoption of the zone, but aid in 
implementation and reduce the number of requests for variances.
Overlay zoning is a relatively inexpensive method of critical lands 
preservation. As the areas in question are already zoned, it is unlikely 
that additional staff is required to administer them. If the zones 
are clearly defined in their purpose, the public education process 
should not be too difficult. Overlay zones may not provide the 
extent of protection that is desired. If an area really is of a critical 
nature, stronger preservation measures may be more effective 
than an overlay zone that allows for limited development.
Dry Fork Canyon, an environmentally and culturally sensitive area 
abutting the rural edge of Vernal, Utah, provides culinary water for 
the area and contains numerous Native American cultural sites, 
including petroglyphs. At the canyon’s base are a number of working 
farms and ranches. Uintah County recognized Dry Fork Canyon as a 
critical resource and created a unique zone to protect it. The Dry Fork 
Canyon overlay zone protects this unique mixture by creating a specific 
list of permitted and conditional uses as well as width and setback 
requirements. 
Case st udy
The University of Utah recently implemented its first community 
garden for students, faculty and staff. The garden, along with a 
farmer’s market, provides fresh local food and makes better use of 
available land than the sod it replaced.
Case st udy
Photo Credit: www.photos.com
41  Envision Ca ChE v all Ey
w w w. e n v i s i o n c a c h e v a l l e y. c o m
•	 City	of	Portland,	Oregon.	Community	Gardens:	About	the	
Program
•	 American	Community	Gardening	Association.	Starting	a	
Community	Garden
•	 Wasatch	Community	Gardens	
•	 Salt	Lake	Tribune.	Stettler,	Jeremiah.	8	August	2009.	Salt	Lake	
County	Hopes	to	Sprout	More	Community	Gardens
w w w. e n v i s i o n c a c h e v a l l e y. c o m
•	 University	of	Wisconsin,	Stevens	Point:	Center	for	Land-Use	
Education.	Planning	Implementation	Tools:	Overlay	Zoning
•	 Midway	City,	Utah.	Sensitive	Lands	Overlay	Zone	(Chapter	
16.14)
•	 Marion	County,	Oregon.	Geologically	Hazardous	Overlay	
Zone	
•	 Walnut	City,	California,	Rural	Overlay	Zone
•	 Salt	Lake	City,	Utah.	Central	Business	District	Zone
•	 Sandy	Spring	–	Ashton,	Maryland.	Rural	Village	Overlay	Zone	
•	 Wasatch	County,	Utah.	Geological	Hazard	Overlay	Zone	
(Draft)
•	 Sandy	City,	Utah.	Flood	Plain	Overlay	Zone
•	 Unitah	County,	Utah.	Dry	Fork	Canyon	Overlay	Zone
•	 United	States	Geological	Survey	(USGS)	Natural	Hazards	
Gateway
•	 Utah	Division	of	Water	Quality
•	 Utah	Watershed	Coordinating	Council

do wnzoning
The preservation of both critical lands and working farms and ranches 
were defined goals in the Envision Cache Valley visioning process. As 
growth in the area is highly likely, Envision Cache Valley participants 
suggested it should be focused in urbanized areas, reducing pressure 
on undeveloped or agricultural ground. In the current land-use 
culture, this means modestly increasing allowable density in cities, 
but also reducing growth pressure outside of urban areas. 
Downzoning, usually a voluntary practice, is a process in which a 
landowner, or group of landowners, opt to have a property’s zoning 
reduced in density. For example, downzoning from one unit per ten 
acres to one unit per 40 acres would help to preserve rural character 
and protect working farms and ranches. In combination with tools 
that increase density within towns, perhaps by the addition of a 
mixed-use zone in a town center or a modest boost in overall density, 
downzoning can be a useful tool in maintaining an area’s character.  
Because downzoning is usually voluntary, it avoids the controversy of a 
mandate. It cannot be perceived as a “taking,” and significant ordinance 
updates aren’t necessary. Like other open space protection measures, 
however, downzoning is not perfect. For downzoning to occur, the land 
owners of the area must agree to it. Success depends, then, on land owners 
willing to give up rights to sub-divide their land for at least the foreseeable 
future. This is, in effect, asking an individual or group of individuals 
to give up potential wealth for the greater good of the community.
The loss, however, is not as dramatic as one might expect. A 1986 
study (Nelson 1986) of Salem, Oregon, notes that agricultural land 
values stabilized while residential land value increased with the 
adoption of rural protection zoning. By defining what is rural and what 
is urban, Salem was able to bring stability to its property values.
On the preservation side, the pitfall of downzoning is its lack of 
permanence. Zoning can always be changed. For permanent protection of 
farmland or critical lands, tools that engage a conservation easement or 
other permanent protection strategy are needed. Downzoning could be 
viewed as an intermediate step in a move toward permanent protection.
Downzoning is only one tool of many that could be used together to 
preserve the character of Cache Valley. However, in an area where a 
majority of farmers value not only the use of their property, but also 
the lifestyle it brings, downzoning may be a simple and effective tool. 
de velopment st andards
Development standards are regulations ensuring certain needs are 
met when new development occurs. The standards can range from 
additions to zoning code to incentives toward adopting green building 
practices. Whenever an area is zoned it has at least some development 
standards. Most zoning code sets standards for the type of use allowed 
as well as the size and layout of the structure. Standard zoning elements 
like setback requirements hold development to aesthetic standards 
as well as define use. Traditional zoning, however, does not go much 
further than identifying use and site standards. A community may wish 
to expand requirements for development to meet changing needs.
Development standards can be narrow or more far reaching. Standards 
can apply to specific spaces such as a downtown or a river corridor, or 
they can encompass an entire community. The purpose of development 
standards is flexible as well. They can address issues as specific as parking 
in front of apartment buildings or as broad as building heights or setbacks.                                                                                                                                   
Development standards can apply to plat approval as well as individual 
structures. For example, standards can put in place requirements 
for open space and trail networks in a new development.
The U.S. Green Building Council has established preset standards, 
known as LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design), to 
make neighborhoods and individual buildings more environmentally 
friendly. Many cities (see list online) have made the adoption of LEED ( a 
requirement, though to varying degrees. Cities like Scottsdale, Arizona, 
have made LEED a requirement for all new buildings, while Atlanta, 
Georgia, requires LEED certification only on city-funded projects of a 
certain size. Incentives for LEED building may be as simple as offering 
priority permit processing to LEED approved sites. While LEED standards 
are rigorous and may pose somewhat larger upfront costs, they have been 
proven to reduce operating costs and to use resources more efficiently.
The most effective way to implement development standards is to enact 
them as code. This can be done at the municipal level, but can be most 
effective in a larger area. For example, county-wide retail development 
standards may reduce the negative effects of competition among 
cities for retail revenue. Larger area standards also give developers 
a sense of clarity about the rules to which they must conform. 
Good development standards look beyond simple zoning to address specific 
needs. Without a clear explanation of purpose, development standards 
can seem arbitrary and are thus not likely to be useful. In creating 
development standards, it is helpful to have specific problems in mind, as 
well as a specific reason for addressing them. Development standards 
are justified when they specifically address the problems identified.
Photo Credit: www.photos.com
Development standards can help implement a trail 
network or preserve open space.
Without protection measures, critical lands and working farms and 
ranches may instead accommodate dispersed subdivisions.
Photo Source: ©Regents of the University of Minnesota. 
Used with the permission of the Metropolitan Design Center.
iMP lE ME nTaTi on Tool KiT  42
w w w. e n v i s i o n c a c h e v a l l e y. c o m
•	 Post	Falls,	Idaho.	Comprehensive	Plan	(Natural	Resources,	
Parks	and	Greenspace	Standards)
•	 Sacramento	City,	California.	Zoning	Districts	and	Land-Use	
Regulations	(Residential	Mixed-Use	Zone	Standards)
•	 U.S.	Green	Building	Council.	LEED	Online	Access	Page	
(Environmental	Stewardship	Standards)
•	 Houston	Advanced	Research	Center.	List	of	Cities	Requiring	
LEED
•	 Pacifica,	California.	Hillside	Preservation	District	(Code)
•	 Georgia	Department	of	Community	Affairs.	Model	Traditional	
Neighborhoods	Development	Ordinance	
•	 Dane	County,	Wisconsin.	Model	Traditional	Neighborhood	
Design	Code
w w w. e n v i s i o n c a c h e v a l l e y. c o m
•	 Apel,	Mark	B.	Downzoning—A	land	Protection	Tool:	How	it’s	
Been	Used	in	One	Arizona	County
•	 Realtor.org.	Field	Guide	to	Downzoning
•	 Utah	State	Historic	Preservation	Office.	Downzoning	and	
Historic	Districts
Printed Resources
• N elson, Arthur C. 1986. Using Land Markets to Evaluate Urban 
Containment Programs . Journal of the American Planning 
Association. Volume 52, Issue 2  (June): 156 – 171.

Economic de velopment Plan
A Regional Perspective
When creating an economic development plan, it is important to think 
at a regional scale, as this scale increasingly reflects the way people live 
their lives: living in one municipality, working in another, running errands 
in a third, and meeting friends in a fourth. Businesses work at a regional 
scale as well, realizing the low-cost economies of scale, and utilizing 
regional networks that enable information sharing and innovation. 
Because of these trends and the diverse resources that a region can offer, 
it is the metropolitan or regional scale that attracts business interest.
Interestingly, there is a disconnect between the regional scale 
at which business interests compete and the local scale at which 
municipal governments operate. While existing businesses rely 
on a regional network and new businesses consider the region 
when making decisions about relocation, municipal governments 
compete with their neighbors when seeking to generate revenue.
Economic development plans in Cache Valley should focus first on 
making the valley as a whole more attractive. Regional coordination on 
quality-of-life issues, creation and maintenance of regional assets, and 
economic cooperation create an environment conducive to business 
interests. For example, the airline manufacturer, Boeing, was drawn 
to the City of Chicago in large part because of the regional cooperation 
created by the Chicago Metropolitan Mayor’s Conference (Flynn).
Regional cooperation not only makes an area more attractive to 
business, but it also helps to balance the regional economy. In Utah, the 
tax structure creates an incentive to attract retail businesses over 
other industries. While retail sales provide important services and 
help support the municipal tax base, retail jobs are often low paying, 
and retail does little to enhance the economic capacity of the region. 
Rather, creating “high-skill, high-wage” (Flynn) employment is more 
beneficial to the region as a whole. Such jobs increase the spending 
capacity of those they employ and increase a region’s export capacity. 
“High-skill, high-wage” jobs also create more skilled workers, helping 
to create a culture of educated and skilled people. Such a culture 
makes a region even more attractive to new business interests.
Creating an Economic Development Plan
While it is important to think and act regionally in terms of overall 
business expansion and recruitment, it is also very important 
to think about how to prepare a municipality to be an attractive 
home for high-skill, high-wage companies. Thinking and Acting 
Regionally in the Greater Wasatch Area: Implications for Local 
Economic Development Practice , an Envision Utah tool prepared by 
Erin Flynn, defines a four-step process that enables a city to identify 
economic development goals and a strategy to implement them. 
1.  Establish an Economic Development Vision  - This step 
centers on public involvement about the type of community residents 
want to become. Questions that need to be answered include: What 
type of businesses do you wish to attract? Where should they be 
located? Do we simply want to grow, or do we wish to maintain or 
create a specific business climate? Some cities may find they wish 
to remain primarily residential. In this case, economic development 
can be limited to requested services or property tax initiatives.
2.  Conduct a Baseline Assessment  - A baseline assessment focuses 
on the current economic development practices in a municipality, the 
infrastructure requirements of various industries, and municipal 
strengths and weaknesses in light of industry requirements. Quality of 
life issues apply generally, but specific industries have specific land, water, 
power and other requirements. Assets and weaknesses surveyed should 
include land and buildings, zoning and permitting practice, taxes and 
regulations, infrastructure and utilities, labor and workforce, education, 
housing, transportation and quality of life. An inventory across these 
areas will identify municipal strengths and weaknesses and will highlight 
areas in which a municipality must coordinate and work with other 
municipalities across the region to improve services and amenities.
3.  Prioritize and Select Implementation Strategies  - An 
implementation strategy should move a municipality from its 
baseline to its future vision. The strategy may focus on upgrading 
economic development practices, business development, the 
workforce, the preparation of land and buildings, and quality of life 
and community amenities. The strategy should reflect not only the 
needs of the targeted industries defined in the economic development 
vision, but also the assets and weaknesses defined in the baseline 
assessment. A viable implementation strategy will reflect what 
businesses want as well as what a city and its residents need.
4.  Benchmark Progress  - Finally, a municipality should 
follow up on its economic development work by establishing 
benchmark goals and ensuring they are met. Economic development 
should certainly praise its successes, but it must also examine 
and learn from instances where success does not occur.
Farmland Preservation
In the visioning process, the protection of working farms and 
ranches, as well as the preservation of Cache Valley’s scenic beauty, 
are stated goals. Without measures of protection it is very likely 
that thousands of acres of Cache Valley’s farmland will be developed 
to accommodate a rapidly growing population. This will not only 
change the valley’s character, but it will also limit future local food 
production, reduce water quality, and reduce wildlife habitat. 
Techniques for preserving farmland are numerous and include 
protective zoning, transfer of development rights, conservation 
easements, right-to-farm legislation and agricultural districting 
(downzoning). Several of these tools are reviewed elsewhere in this 
toolkit, with a few more being discussed below. Successful methods 
have used both regulatory and incentive-based programs. 
Master Planning  
By including farmland preservation in a master plan, the basis for farm 
protection zoning is codified. Including farmland in a master plan also 
grants the basis for growth management practices that include agriculture.
Mitigation Ordinance
A mitigation ordinance is usually used in conjunction with protective 
zoning, or some other regulated designation of farmland. A 
mitigation ordinance usually states that for any loss of designated 
farmland, a developer must create or protect that much land 
somewhere else. Mitigation ordinances are quite new, with the 
first adopted in 1995, in Davis, California. In Davis, developers 
must protect one acre of farmland for every acre they convert 
(American Farmland Trust). A successful mitigation ordinance also 
exists in King County, Washington (American Farmland Trust).
Green Belts
When development encroaches on farmland and property taxes rise, 
property owners understandably begin to view their farm in a different 
light—as a future subdivision location instead of ground for food 
production. Green belt laws assess property tax based on agricultural use, 
not on potential developable use, thereby keeping taxes low. In addition 
to helping preserve the farm by creating a financial incentive to keep the 
ground in farm use, green belt makes general financial sense. Agricultural 
land uses fewer services than residential development, and a green belt 
reflects the expenditures by a municipality or county to provide services.
Conservation Easements
A conservation easement is a voluntary, permanent deed restriction 
placed on a parcel to protect its resources or functions—natural or 
man-made. An easement precludes future real estate development 
and identifies permitted and prohibited uses. An easement may 
protect or preserve environmental conditions like water quality 
or preserve an economic pursuit like farming or ranching. 
Conservation easements are often used in tandem with other growth tools, 
such as the purchase of development rights or the transfer of development 
rights to another property. These programs enable a landowner to receive 
the economic benefit of the development rights associated with the land, 
while not building them on site. Further, the landowner can continue 
current use of the land—economically benefitting from farm operations. 
Finally, with development rights permanently removed, the land is usually 
assessed at a lower tax rate, further enhancing the viability of farming. 
Soil and Water Grants
By recognizing the value of soil and water that are protected by continued 
farming, some areas have offered soil and water protection grants. 
These grants usually guarantee a certain time frame in which the farmer 
will keep farming, and thus continue to protect ground water and soil 
stability. While such grants are sometimes seen as an excessive municipal 
expenditure, they can be less costly than building and maintaining 
water treatment plants and initiating soil reclamation projects.
Government Measures to Increase Farm Profit
Municipal and county governments often have means to disseminate 
information favorable to farmers. A county tourism organization may offer 
maps of pick-your-own farms and roadside stands. Many cities sponsor 
farmers markets, offering direct sales of agricultural products. “Buy local” 
campaigns highlight the products of specific farms and help to advertise 
local products. Local label regulations stipulate what must be contained 
in a product with a certain name. Individually, these small government 
measures may seem trivial, but they create needed connections between 
farmers, their representatives, and their customers. These connections 
have the most potential for creating successful farm protection measures.
Farmland is not simply a source of scenic beauty for Cache Valley. 
Farms mitigate air pollution, provide wildlife habitat and can 
ensure clean groundwater. They provide a stable local food source 
and a significant economic contribution to the local economy. 
43  Envision Ca ChE v all Ey
w w w. e n v i s i o n c a c h e v a l l e y. c o m
•	 Flynn,	Erin.	2005.	Thinking	and	Acting	Regionally	in	the	
Greater	Wasatch	Area:	Implications	for	Local	Economic	
Development	Practice.	Envision	Utah
•	 U.S.	Federal	Government.	Economic	Development	and	
Infrastructure	Resources	Page
•	 Theising,	Andrew	and	Debra	Moore.	2007.	Evolving	Local	
Government	Purpose	through	Economic	Development	
•	 Association	of	University	Research	Parks.	Home	Page
•	 International	Economic	Development	Council.	Home	Page
•	 National	Congress	for	Community	Economic	Development.	
Home	Page
Printed Resources
• A merican Farmland Trust. 1997. Saving American Farmland: What 
Works. Northampton, Massachusetts: American Farmland Trust.
w w w. e n v i s i o n c a c h e v a l l e y. c o m
•	 Utah	Agricultural	Code	(relevant	statutes	include	4-7,4-8,4-
18,4-19,4-21,4-22)
•	 Utah	Criminal	Code	(Right	to	Farm	Legislation,	two	locations	
in	Utah	Code)
•	 Idaho	Right	to	Farm	Legislation
•	 American	Farmland	Trust.	Rocky	Mountain	Agricultural	
Landowners	Guide	to	Conservation	and	Sustainability
•	 Natural	Resources	Conservation	Service.	2003	National	
Rescores	Inventory:	Land-Use
•	 2007	Census	of	Agriculture:	County	Level	Data

Form-ba sed Code
Form-based codes encourage a predictable community form 
and high quality public spaces by using the physical form of a 
community as the organizing principle rather than the separation 
of uses. Such codes shape private development to produce good 
public spaces. Instead of focusing narrowly on land-use and 
prohibited uses, form-based codes allow communities to prescribe 
how they want their towns, cities and suburbs to look and feel. 
Form-based codes incorporate recent advances in urban design. The 
ideas, however, are often based on early American towns with careful 
attention to the relationship of buildings to one another and to the street: 
buildings are pushed closer to walkways and streets; parking is placed 
in the rear; blocks are smaller and streets are narrower; architecture 
is varied; and buildings are used to frame important civic spaces. 
Perhaps most importantly, mixed-use development is encouraged 
in most form-based codes, a departure from Euclidian zoning 
which has increasingly separated even highly compatible uses from 
one another. Whereas conventional zoning codes are often heavy 
tomes, with page after page describing what uses can go where, 
form-based codes are generally light on land-use proscriptions. 
The community decides on a basic form for the new development, 
and the market decides to a reasonable degree on its use. 
According to the Form-Based Code Institute, form-based codes 
generally consist of the following:
•
 A r
egulating plan, which is similar to a zoning map in that it 
defines the geographic boundaries of the code.
•
 P
ublic space standards, which lay out the dimensions and 
characteristics of sidewalks, roads and parks.
•
 B
uilding form standards, which define how buildings respond to 
the public realm.
•
 U
se of administration guidelines.
•
 D
efinitions of uncommon terms.
Beyond these basic characteristics, form-based codes may also 
include architectural and landscaping standards, environmental 
regulations, and graphic annotations. Codes vary according to 
their length, level of detail, and the type of planning issues they 
address. Some have very detailed descriptions of architectural 
treatments. Other codes take a minimalist approach, trusting the 
developer to determine an appropriate architectural style.
A form-based code can either be mandatory, optional, or “floating,” 
which means a set of regulations without predetermined geographic 
boundaries. The use of form-based codes is relatively new, but they 
have been successfully implemented in places around the United States, 
including Florida, Texas, and California. Their reliance on graphical 
illustrations has made implementation easier for the development 
community as well as local politicians and planning staff. The 
best-known model is Duany Plater-Zyberk’s “SmartCode,” an open 
source model code intended for adaptation by local communities. 
Hybrid form-based codes are codes that take elements of a form-based 
code—usually graphical urban design standards—and blend them 
into a conventional code. These standards improve the conventional 
code but usually lack the attention to the public realm—how the 
streets, buildings and open spaces relate to one another. The lack of 
specificity in this respect tends to reduce the level of predictability, 
diminishing many of the advantages of form-based codes.
Flexible lo t si ze Policy
Minimum lot size, as a residential zoning practice, has been primarily 
an attempt to preserve property values. It makes sense that a one-acre 
lot will sell for more than a half-acre lot. The theory is extended 
to suggest that the price of a two-acre lot will be reduced if it is 
next door to a half-acre lot. Zoning code that enforces minimum lot 
size addresses potential concerns about the stability of residential 
property values and neighborhood character. By ensuring that a lot 
is of a given size, the law also ensures a certain level of home value 
and thus a certain amount of wealth for any potential home buyer. 
Whether or not it is reasonable to dictate through code who can afford 
to live where is up to debate. Regardless, in requiring a minimum 
size for a lot, a subdivision developer is forced to use as much of the 
property as possible to maximize profits, spreading development 
out across the whole of the subdivision. Protecting critical lands on 
a parcel doesn’t happen alongside the development of land value.
Allowing flexible lot sizes increases the options available, allowing for 
increased housing diversity and attention to critical lands or recreational 
amenities. A method growing in popularity is the adoption of an 
average lot size instead of a minimum. With a one-acre minimum lot 
size, a new 100-acre subdivision is very likely to contain 100 one-acre 
lots. However, with an average lot size of one-acre, the property could 
be subdivided into a mix of lot sizes, accommodating wider range of 
housing options while also protecting sensitive features like stream 
beds or valuable vegetation. In this scenario, a 100-acre subdivision 
may contain 30 preserved acres along a stream corridor encompassing 
a trail, 50 one-acre lots, 30 half-acre lots, and 20 quarter-acre lots. 
Lot size averages allow a developer to maintain overall density (and thus 
revenue) while providing a mixture of housing options. Townhomes and 
large single family homes sharing the same subdivision is a departure 
from conventional residential zoning of the past several decades, but 
such diversity is a hallmark of many historical neighborhoods built 
before the strict separation of land uses and housing types. There 
is also more research on property values, indicating that proximity 
to open space may be as significant an indicator of property value 
as lot size (Arendt). A community need not decide between open 
space preservation and the development of new housing.
Allowing for average lot size is a practice that increases options—for 
residents, municipalities, and developers. A landowner could create 
standardized lot sizes, or a landowner could exercise flexibility. 
In Bedminster, New Jersey, the resource protection goals put forth 
in the master plan were inconsistent with current zoning code. 
Specifically, conventional subdivision development did not allow for 
the desired scale of open space preservation. An average lot size 
code option was adopted alongside more conventional subdivision 
requirements in an attempt to maintain more connected open 
space. The code stipulates that new subdivisions “shall not 
result in a greater number of lots than would result if a parcel 
were developed as a fully conforming conventional subdivision,” 
preserving the same overall density, but allowing for significantly 
more open space.
Case st udy
Mixed-use development is encouraged in most form-based codes, a 
departure from Euclidian zoning which has increasingly separated even 
highly compatible uses.
di d yo u Know?
iMP lE ME nTaTi on Tool KiT  44
w w w. e n v i s i o n c a c h e v a l l e y. c o m
•	 Form-Based	Code	Institute
•	 Smart	Code	Central
•	 Ventura,	California.	Midtown	Corridors	Development	Code	
(An	award-winning	form-based	code)
•	 Fort	Worth,	Texas.	Near	Southside	Development	Standards	
and	Guidelines	(An	award-winning	form-based	code)
•	 City	of	Post	Falls,	Idaho.	SmartCode
Photo Credit: www.flickr.com/people/theequinepractice
w w w. e n v i s i o n c a c h e v a l l e y. c o m
•	 Kopits,	Elizabeth	et.	al.	2009.	Lot	Size,	Zoning	and	Household	
Preferences:	Impediments	to	Smart	Growth?	Resources	for	
the	Future
•	 New	Hampshire	Department	of	Environmental	Studies.	Lot	
Size	Averaging:	One	Size	Does	Not	Fit	All
•	 Sample	Codes	from	Smart	Growth	Gateway
Printed Resources
• A rendt, Randall. 1999. Growing Greener: Putting Conservation into 
Local Plans and Ordinances . Washington D.C.: Island Press.

im pact Fees
Impact fees are one-time charges assessed by a local government to 
offset the additional public-service costs of new development. They 
are usually applied at the time a building permit is issued and are 
dedicated to the provision of additional services, such as water and 
sewer systems, roads, schools, libraries, parks and recreation facilities, 
made necessary by the new development. Fees must be used for a 
specific, development-induced expense and not for a city’s general 
budget. For example, an impact fee assessed on a new home may pay 
for costs associated with providing the development with a sewer 
connection, but not to pay down a city’s debt or boost its general fund. 
The amount of the impact fee must be clearly linked to the added service 
cost. Impact fees may be based on the local government’s average cost of 
providing services, or they may be based on the actual cost of providing 
services to a specific development. Although impact fees do not alter 
total service or infrastructure costs, they do affect who pays those costs. 
Each community must decide whether the cost of new infrastructure 
is charged directly to the new residents by using impact fees, or shared 
among all new and current residents through higher taxes. By adopting 
impact fees, the burden on current residents is eased by shifting the 
expense of new infrastructure costs onto the new development. 
The manner in which impact fees are calculated makes a difference 
and is specified in state law. When the actual cost to provide services 
is calculated (rather than simply applying an impact fee based on 
average cost), some development locations may become more attractive, 
while others may become less attractive simply because providing 
services is more expensive. It may make infill development more 
appealing because of proximity to existing infrastructure, and it may 
offset the attraction of reduced land costs outside of urban areas. 
Because impact fees require an “essential nexus”—a reasonable 
relationship between the fee assessed and the cost of service 
provided—the municipalities, as primary service providers, are 
better suited than the counties in Cache Valley to assess and use 
impact fees. Provision of service allows the assessing body to justify 
the essential nexus required when assessing an impact fee.
 The legal history of impact fees is written as a litany of developer’s 
challenges to them. If the “essential nexus” is maintained, challenges 
are not usually sustained. Win or lose, challenges can result in 
protracted and expensive legal battles. If a municipality can clearly 
demonstrate that impacts from a new development will generate 
a specific need, impact fees can help mitigate this expense. 
When assessing a fee, it is important to consider that the cost of the 
fee is usually passed from developer to home buyer. Some cities have 
chosen to implement a progressive impact fee to protect those requiring 
affordable housing. Progressive fees make some economic sense, as 
higher income homes often use more services. A  HUD-produced 
document (Impact Fees & Housing Affordability ) recommends impact 
fees based on unit size. In Albuquerque, New Mexico, impact fees 
can be waved outright if affordable housing standards are met. As 
impact fees are implemented, it is important to ensure that the fees 
are not a de facto means of excluding lower income residents.
 An impact fee’s purpose is to enable communities to mitigate 
specific costs associated with new development. Other effects 
to land-use patterns, affordable housing, or other factors should 
also be considered in implementing an impact fee program.
in fill and Redevelopment: Parking lo ts, 
bi
g 
bo
xes and 
de
ad Malls 
What happens when massive buildings become obsolete? Or when their 
original tenants move or go out of business? This is a common scenario 
around the country. Even more common, however, is the scenario in which 
large buildings are underused. Whether a mall, a big-box retailer like 
Wal-Mart or Sam’s Club, an old factory, or just the parking lots that serve 
these places, many cities find that they have space for infill development.
Parking Lot Infill
Underutilized parking lots are common features in our communities, 
and these spaces can be filled in with smaller stores, restaurants, 
office buildings, or even a mix of uses, including residential. Since 
lots are often in close proximity to one another, nearby big-box 
retailers could share their parking lots, when possible, and use 
the leftover space to develop commercial buildings on a smaller 
scale. Rethinking parking lots adds variety, makes an existing retail 
area more vibrant, and allows communities to maximize existing 
spaces before developing farmland or other greenfield sites. 
Parking lot infill can also add character to a nondescript part of a city. 
When combined with landscaping and other thoughtful urban design 
measures, parking lots can be transformed from utilitarian space to 
places where retail and pedestrian activity can flourish. Small-scale 
retail or office space, combined with sidewalks, planters, benches, and 
street lights, can create a sense of useful space surrounding a big box 
store. Unused parking lots are efficient areas for infill. They are already 
graded for drainage, are close to existing infrastructure, and, because 
the new uses are generally more favored than the parking area, there 
tends to be more public support for this type of infill development.
Big Box Reuse
Communities recently have been examining creative ways to 
reuse defunct big-boxes, malls and factories. They have reused 
abandoned structures for churches, libraries, schools, medical centers, 
courthouses, recreation centers, museums, and even a go-kart track. 
In Laramie, Wyoming, an old Wal-Mart, abandoned for a new Wal-Mart 
Super Center, was turned into a school. While the Snowy Range 
Academy is still an example of the large building, large parking 
lot format, it has at least found life in a new use. Improvements 
include a playground in back. A Staples office store shares the 
space. Neither the school nor the Staples required new roads, water 
lines or parking areas, making it an efficient site to occupy.
From Dead Malls to Lifestyle Centers and Town Centers
Another recent trend is for developers to replace underperforming 
indoor malls with lifestyle centers (mixed-use, outdoor retail areas) 
or even town centers, complete with housing and office space. Some 
suburbs, which previously lacked a civic or town center, have created 
them by rethinking a “dead” mall. Cities can facilitate such transitions 
by adopting mixed-use zoning, density bonuses, and other mechanisms.
Projects that recycle the space of a warehouse style store, or the 
parking lot in front, reduce the pressure on working farms and ranches 
or critical lands in outlying areas. Infill and reuse development uses 
existing infrastructure, making it efficient for developers to build and 
municipalities to maintain. If Cache Valley communities want to limit 
their expansion into undeveloped areas, employing infill development 
strategies in underused, large-lot spaces is worth consideration. 
Impact fees can create and maintain parks, but planners should 
be wary of them as tools for preserving critical lands.
Photo Source: ©Regents of the University of Minnesota. 
Used with the permission of the Metropolitan Design Center.
Englewood, Colorado, partnered with private developers to transform 
a dead mall into a new city center, taking advantage of a new transit line 
running along the property boundary. The former Foley’s department 
store building, which once anchored the mall, has been transformed into 
a new city hall, which anchors the new civic center. The center includes 
art-filled public streets, a town green, and lots of affordable housing, all 
within walking distance of a new light rail station.
Case st udy
45  Envision Ca ChE v all Ey
w w w. e n v i s i o n c a c h e v a l l e y. c o m
•	 Smith,	Craig	and	Scott	Ellsworth.	A	Brief	History	of	Utah	
Impact	Fee	and	Exaction	Law	
•	 U.S.	Department	of	Housing	and	Urban	Development,	Office	
of	Policy	Development	and	Research.	2008.	Impact	Fess	&	
Housing	Affordability:	A	Case	Study	for	Practitioners	
•	 Center	for	Urban	Policy	and	the	Environment	at	Indiana	
University-Purdue	University	Indianapolis.	An	Internet	Guide	
to	Financing	Stormwater	Management:	Impact	Fees
•	 State	of	Washington.	Transportation	Impact	Fee	Service	Area	
(Code)
•	 State	of	Utah.	Impact	Fees	(Code)
•	 State	of	Idaho.	Development	Impact	Fees	(Code)
Printed Resources
• D unham-Jones, Ellen and Williamson, June. 2009. Retrofitting 
Suburbia: Urban Design Solutions for Redesigning Suburbs .    
Hoboken: John Wiley & Sons.
w w w. e n v i s i o n c a c h e v a l l e y. c o m
•	 Christensen,	Julia.	Big	Box	Reuse	Project	(2004)

in tergovernmental Coordination
Cache Valley includes 25 cities and towns and spans two counties and 
two states. Realizing a valley-wide vision will require cooperation 
between the various municipalities, the counties, the state 
governments, and other agencies that affect Cache Valley. There is 
little question that what one municipality does affects its neighbors, as 
the valley shares roads, water, air, critical lands, and an economy. 
That said, what benefit does increased regional cooperation bring?  
The most obvious answer is a reduction in waste. Regionally planned 
transportation and sewer and water lines are better integrated and 
more efficient. Infrastructure often benefits from an economy of 
scale. Connection to sewer and waterlines are cheaper per household 
in a larger and better integrated system. The system as a whole is 
more efficient than an agglomeration of smaller, localized systems. 
Aside from simply saving money, better regional cooperation can address 
the related issues of tax-base equality and property values. Property 
values in a connected region have been shown to rise and fall in relation to 
one another (Orfield). Economic disparities between cities in a given region 
can affect the cities’ respective property values. Depressed property 
values in one community can drive down home prices in a neighboring 
town. Tax-base sharing and other regional equity measures can ensure 
local market stability and thus greater regional economic stability.
A united region also has the benefit of greater leverage in state and 
national affairs. While a small Cache Valley town may not have enough 
influence to secure a state grant, Cache Valley as a whole presents a 
much more formidable force. The same is true for national funding in air 
quality attainment, transit, transportation and a host of other issues.
Regional cooperation is usually achieved by one of four methods:
1.  Annexation - Affords cooperation at a small scale within a portion 
of a region. An existing government, usually a city, incorporates 
outlying land into city boundaries. Annexation and annexation 
declarations can cause disagreements between communities whose 
boundaries are close together or whose annexation declarations 
overlap. Working through annexation issues with neighboring 
cities can bring unity of purpose and common understanding.
2.  Consolidation  - Occurs when a group of municipal 
governments band together to form a new, larger municipality. 
This more typically occurs in larger urbanized areas, where 
municipalities are no longer distinct from one another. 
3.  Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO)  - A local 
organization designated by the federal government to be responsible 
for street, highway and air quality planning for a metropolitan region.  
Federal transportation laws and regulations require the establishment 
of an MPO in every urbanized area of the United States with a 
population over 50,000. MPOs sometimes coordinate other regional 
projects, from open space plans to affordable housing initiatives. 
Strengthening the Cache Valley MPO may benefit regional 
cooperation. One strategy includes direct election of its members, with 
representatives apportioned by voting population. Going even further, the 
recommendations of an MPO can be made mandatory rather than advisory. 
As Cache Valley moves toward common regional goals, such as a valley-
wide bike or trail system, better street connectivity, or an intercity 
bus rapid transit system, a strong MPO may work well to coordinate 
planning and implementation. If desired, the MPO could assume other 
roles, becoming an arbiter of regional disputes, the instigator of a 
tax-base sharing agreement, or a facilitator of interlocal agreements.
4.  Interlocal Agreements  - The most common means of 
intergovernmental coordination, interlocal agreements enable 
two or more local governments to work together on shared goals 
or to provide services. Interlocal agreements can be extremely 
specific, providing fire, water, police or myriad other municipal 
services. Interlocal agreements across state lines are also somewhat 
common, though special consideration is required, as differing state 
codes can make arbitration difficult if the agreement is broken. 
Regional cooperation is not a blanket solution. Greater regional 
cooperation must be balanced with recognizing local autonomy. 
Local elected officials have an understanding of the sentiments 
of those they represent. As regional cooperation is contemplated 
in future projects, these officials will play key roles.
Critical la nds in ventory and 
Protection 
st
rategy
A critical lands inventory is a database of maps and narrative that 
identify different types of ecological, agricultural, recreational and/
or cultural/historical resources that are important to a community 
or region. Typically, the purpose of the inventory is to compile data at 
a single source to increase accessibility, enable analysis, and identify 
critical lands protection priorities. While a critical lands inventory 
is an effective means of illustrating where priority resources are 
located, they can become outdated quickly if land uses are in flux. An 
inventory that is developed for use by multiple jurisdictions or for an 
extended period of time can help solidify common goals, but it may 
require significant commitment of staff. Often, significant data already 
exists, and the inventory simply brings it together, enabling detailed 
analysis. While a regional visioning process can identify broad critical 
lands conservation goals, an inventory and associated discussion can 
answer the following key questions with specificity: What lands do we 
want to conserve? How much and where do we want to conserve land? 
Washington County, Utah, created a critical lands resource guide 
shortly after its regional visioning process known as Vision Dixie 
to support vision principles. The guide identifies three priority 
categories to be considered for conservation and protection by local 
jurisdictions. The first includes critical lands tied to public health and 
safety: geologic hazards, FEMA floodplains, erosion prone soils, and 
areas of wildfire risk. The second includes areas of public interest 
or quality of life: agricultural land, viewsheds, ridgelines, riparian 
areas, and scenic byways. The third category includes habitat for 
threatened and endangered species and critical habitat for large 
mammals whose migratory range also includes habitat for many 
smaller plant and animal species. In addition to identifying critical 
lands priorities, the resource guide includes policy strategies for local 
municipalities. Mapped data is available on the county’s website.
Other communities in Utah have used the state’s Geographic Information 
Systems (GIS) Portal to obtain needed data, or the Governor’s Office of 
Planning and Budget’s Critical Lands Planning Toolkit. In Cache Valley, 
wetland/riparian/floodplain areas, agricultural land, scenic corridors, 
and wildlife habitat could comprise an inventory and form the basis 
of a critical lands protection strategy. Envision Cache Valley began 
this process (see the natural resource, working farms, and recreation 
vision map and associated illustrations), overlaying information in 
these categories to identify areas with high critical land values and 
illustrating where they overlap. Percentage goals could be set for 
priority critical lands: What if 30%, 50% or even 70% of these spaces 
were protected? It may not be possible to protect them all, but it may 
be possible to protect enough. Several organizations, including Utah 
State University and The Nature Conservancy, have developed detailed 
data sets and associated priorities and strategies for Cache Valley.
An interlocal agreement between Madison County, Idaho, and the City 
of Rexburg recognizes the development of an ordinance defining the 
purpose and standards for the renegotiation of areas of city impact. 
It encourages mutual coordination of land-use and annexation in a 
planned and orderly manner and recognizes that (1) annexations and 
the area of city impact expansions can have extra-jurisdictional impacts, 
and that (2) intergovernmental cooperation is an effective means 
to deal with impacts and opportunities that transcend jurisdictional 
boundaries. The local governments agree not to change or modify the 
Area of City Impact Ordinance as adopted within their city or county 
code without formal discussion with and agreement of all other local 
governments. The local governments have formed a joint commission, 
which includes representation of all bodies engaged in the interlocal 
agreement, to review proposals for renegotiation.
an ag reement To Watch
iMP lE ME nTaTi on Tool KiT  46
w w w. e n v i s i o n c a c h e v a l l e y. c o m
•	 Utah	Code.	Interlocal	Agreements
•	 Bear	River	Heritage	Area.	(An	interlocal	crossing	the	Utah/
Idaho	Boarder)
•	 City	of	Rexburg,	Idaho.	Area	of	City	Impact	Inter-local	
Agreement:	Chapter	16.06	Impact	Zone:	
•	 City	of	Rexburg,	Idaho.	Area	of	City	Impact	Inter-local	
Agreement	Zoning:	Map	with	Impact	Area:	
•	 Boulder	County,	Colorado.	Transfer	of	Development	Rights	
Program	and	Interlocal	Agreements
Printed Resources
• B aker, J. B. (2006) Planning for the Bear River Corridor Through Cache 
County. Logan, UT: College of Natural Resources, Utah State 
University.
•
 N
oss, Wuerthner, Vance-Borland, Carroll. A Biological Conservation 
Assessment for the Utah-Wyoming Rocky Mountains Ecoregion . 2001.
•
 T
oth, R.E., Braddy, K., Guth, J.D., Leydsman, E.I., Price, J.T., Slade, 
L.M., and Taro, B.S. (2006). Cache Valley 2030 - The Future Explored. 
Final Project Report No. 2006-1 , College of Natural Resources, Utah 
State University, Logan, Utah 84322-5200.
w w w. e n v i s i o n c a c h e v a l l e y. c o m
•	 The	Nature	Conservancy.	Eco-regional	Assessments	(Note:	A	
plan	for	the	Bear	River	has	been	developed.)
•	 State	of	Utah.	Geographic	Information	Systems	(GIS)	Portal
•	 State	of	Utah.	Critical	Lands	Planning	Toolkit
EXAMPLE : Intergovernmental 
agreements between Boulder 
County, Colorado, and six cities in 
the county enable the transfer of 
development rights (TDRs) from the 
unincorporated portions of the county 
into the cities. The cities accept 
development rights from nearby 
county land because acceptance of 
TDRs achieves city goals for economic 
development, community separators, 
greenbelts, and farmland preservation.
Photo Credit: University of Colorado
Mixed-us e zo ning
The separation of land uses in the United States, as mandated by local 
zoning code, was created in response to health and safety concerns 
coinciding with the industrialization of cities. Initially, codes separated 
industrial uses from residential uses—no one wants to live next to 
a slaughter house or a paper mill. Over time, land-use separation 
became more widespread, until even highly compatible land uses—
land uses that historically coexisted in harmony, such as offices, 
residential and small retail—were separated. The result increased auto 
dependency and reduced convenient access to day-to-day services. 
In response to the strict segregation of land uses, many municipalities are 
creating special mixed-use zones. These zones allow for compatible mixes 
(the paper mill is still prohibited) in specific locations. Mixed-use zones 
can create small town centers, usually mixing residential, retail, office 
and commercial. Such zones can be used sparingly in already developed 
areas, or applied broadly, at the discretion of the municipality or its 
citizens. In most cases, mixed-use zones are added to existing commercial 
or town centers, and not imposed upon residential communities.
Mixing uses allows for greater density in town centers by attaching 
residential units to retail or office space. This density increase in already 
developed areas adds desired vibrancy and allows for the preservation of 
critical lands and working farms and ranches, as new land is not required 
for development. Mixed-use development also lowers vehicle miles 
traveled in a region as vehicle trips are shorter and walking becomes a 
viable option for more citizens. Mixed-use, more walkable communities 
not only lessen pressure on existing roads, but also provide options for 
the young, the elderly, and others who cannot or do not wish to drive.
Like conventional zoning, mixed-use zoning can prohibit certain uses, 
limit heights, and define setbacks. Allowing for more freedom of use 
does not mean giving up control over the shape of a neighborhood 
or accepting a scale incongruent with nearby development. A 
neighborhood center may be composed of mostly single story buildings 
housing a school, library, and a mix of offices, shops, and residences. 
This case demonstrates horizontal mixed-use: a range of uses are 
conveniently located near one another, but not necessarily on top of 
one another. Alternatively, a mixed-use town center may assume a 
more vertical form, including multistory structures that house first 
floor retail, second floor office space, and residences on upper floors.
Mixed-use zoning is an element of town planning that can create a 
retail development, allow for greater mobility, and focus density in 
desired areas. Many communities throughout the West are using 
mixed-use zones to focus development in desired areas. Ogden is 
using mixed-use zoning in its downtown to bring more life to its 
historic core. Such zones can enhance existing main streets without 
creating an overwhelming urban feel, as well as allow for further 
development without spilling into the countryside. Mixed-use zoning 
can be tailored to the needs of the community that adopts it.
op en sp ace Requirements and Fee-in-
lie
u Programs
Communities can maintain open space by adopting open space 
preservation requirements for subdivision plat approval. Sometimes open 
space requirements are directed toward a specific purpose, such as a trail 
network, or they can apply to any new development or redevelopment. 
When an open space requirement is a flat percentage of a parcel, 
regardless of its size or whether ecological, recreational or other values 
are present on the land, its onsite implementation may or may not make 
sense. For example, a parcel may contain a small amount of critical 
lands which ought to be preserved. If critical lands only fall on 10% 
of a site and the open space requirement is 30%, it may be better to 
employ a fee-in-lieu option on the remaining 20%. A fee-in-lieu allows 
a developer to pay a fee instead of preserving open space onsite. The 
fee is used to preserve higher priority spaces in another location. 
In order to maintain the legal “essential nexus” requirement when 
adopting a fee-in-lieu program, it is helpful to create a designated open 
space fund. This avoids any appearance that fees collected may be 
entering the general fund. While a fee-in-lieu is technically separate from 
an impact fee or exaction, as the ordinance applies to all development 
uniformly, legal challenges from developers are still possible. 
There are instances where open space requirements are not high 
enough, as existing critical lands may not fit within the fixed open 
space requirement percentage. For example, more than 90% of a 
parcel may be on a floodplain, and an open space requirement of 30% 
would not provide the extent of preservation needed. Particularly 
where public health and safety issued are involved, a hazard 
ordinance, sensitive lands overlay, or other tool may be preferred 
or used in tandem with a percentage open space requirement.
Wellsville City, Utah, is among many cities in the state with open space 
requirements. Wellsville adopted an open space requirement ranging 
from 20% in industrial and commercial zones up to 50% in its larger 
lot residential zones. Alongside the open space requirement, the city 
adopted cash-in-lieu, land-in-lieu, and purchase of development rights 
options, which can be exercised at the city’s discretion. The program 
helps the city build open space into its developments as well as provides 
funds for the protection of the river bottoms at the city’s gateway.
Open space requirements can add functionality, attractiveness, and 
ecological sustainability to an urban or suburban environment. When 
used in combination with a fee-in-lieu program, these requirements can 
be an effective means of protecting urban stream corridors, working 
landscapes, or other priority spaces in the community at large.
Mixed-use zoning can create an environment that is        
accessible to everyone.
Photo Credit: www.flickr.com/photos/question_everything
Wellsville City, Utah adopted an open space requirement which 
can help protect working lands, ecological corridors, and other 
important spaces.
Photo Credit: www.flickr.com/photos/courtneyrussell
47  Envision Ca ChE v all Ey
w w w. e n v i s i o n c a c h e v a l l e y. c o m
•	 Ogden	City,	Utah.	Mixed-Use	Zone	(Title	15:39)
•	 Sandy	City,	Utah.	Mixed-Use	Zone
•	 Cottonwood	Heights,	Utah.	Mixed-Use	Zone
•	 Farmington,	Utah.	Mixed-Use	Zone
•	 Walker,	Philip	L.	2009.	Downtown	Planning	for	Smaller	and	
Midsized	Communities.	Chicago:	Planners	Press.
•	 Winston,	Rodger	D.	2007.	Achieving	Horizontal	and	Vertical	
Integration—Challenges	of	Mixed-Use	Development.	Probate	
&	Property,	March/April
w w w. e n v i s i o n c a c h e v a l l e y. c o m
•	 Wellsville	City,	Utah.	Ordinance	11-5-4:	Open	Space	and	
Ordinance	10-1-9:	In-Lieu	Substitutions	for	Open	Space	
Requirements
•	 King	County,	Washington.	Fee-in-Lieu	Calculation	Sheet
•	 Michigan	Planning	Association.	Open	Space	Guidelines
•	 City	of	Yakima,	Washington.	Common	Open	Space	
Requirements	(Code)
•	 City	of	Redwood,	California.	Open	Space	Requirements	for	
Multifamily	Development	(Fact	sheet	and	Regulations)

Public out reach and Education
The Envision Cache Valley Steering Committee committed to engaging 
in a process that provided good information to the public, trusting 
that the public would make good decisions if provided with good 
data. Through the process, it became apparent that the residents 
of Cache Valley are interested in “keeping the city, city and the 
country, country.”  However, public outreach and education will 
continue to be an important tool. It is crucial to exploring both 
what the vision means in each municipality and how individual 
communities can work together to achieve this common goal. 
Public Awareness of the Envision Cache Valley Process
There are a number of tools available to public officials and others 
who want to raise awareness of the Envision Cache Valley process. The 
survey results from the process and projected demographics for future 
growth patterns are powerful tools. They help people to see that the 
region is growing and to understand the relationship between public 
process and the vision that was its outcome. The combination makes 
a convincing case for both the need and will for quality growth in 
Cache Valley. This information, along with ready-made presentations 
are available at www.envisioncachevalley.com. The Cache Valley 
Regional Council and the Countywide Planner are also resources.
Information about Envision Cache Valley can be shared at future 
public meetings and open houses as municipalities think about local 
implementation of the vision. Letters to the editor and press releases 
in the local paper convey messages to a wide audience. Utah State 
University and Cache Valley Library both have a stake in the process and 
have the potential to reach a wide audience. Public school newsletters 
reach young people and their parents, an audience with a particular 
regard for the future. Elected officials have existing constituencies 
and networks which can be powerful tools in and of themselves.
Training and Examples Regarding Specific Principles
Some vision principles will be best implemented with tools that have 
not been used or have not been used well in Cache Valley. In these 
cases, it will be important to identify examples, especially those 
with good illustrations, so people can see how new tools are working 
in other areas. As needs arise across the region, individuals with 
specialized expertise should provide training for local leaders and the 
general public to help everyone become familiar with their options. 
For example, the vision identifies a need for a more compact housing 
pattern, but some stigma regarding higher densities exists, and for 
good reason. A great deal of multifamily attached housing is the 
victim of poor design. Envision Utah, Lincoln Land Institute, American 
Planning Association, Smartgrowth.org, and many other organizations 
maintain visual tools and presentations available on the web that 
demonstrate what more compact development can look like. Strategies 
such as form-based codes and mixed-use zones can provide for compact 
housing in an attractive, well designed setting. Training on such 
tools will be important for those working on vision implementation, 
just as good illustrations will help the public see what’s possible.
The City of Dennisport, a small coastal town in Massachusetts (a 
lengthy case study is listed in the online resources) attempted a 
mixed-use development in its city center in the early 2000s. While 
Massachusetts is far from Cache Valley, the case provides a few insights 
into the process. First, responses to changes in development patterns 
come in two forms. Technical questions about things like sanitation or 
water lines have hard and fast answers and can be addressed in technical 
terms. Emotional questions about the neighborhood’s character are 
somewhat harder to address. In the case of Dennisport, emotional fears 
about the character of the neighborhood were addressed with visual 
materials using actual photos of the city. Such materials demonstrated 
concretely that the type of development planned, and the accompanying 
density increases, were not ugly, nor did they infringe upon what 
citizens like about their community.
Case st udy
Photo Credit: GoBostonCard.com
iMP lE ME nTaTi on Tool KiT  48
Parking Policy
The appropriate number and location of parking spaces poses a difficult 
land-use question, especially for retail establishments. Many malls 
and big box stores offer parking sufficient for the peak parking day of 
the year. On a normal shopping day, one may drive past rows and rows 
of empty parking spaces. Faced with the opposite challenge, street-
fronting retail in a main street setting may have trouble providing 
enough parking spaces given rigid parking restrictions, a situation 
that can lead to vacant or under-utilized storefronts an area otherwise 
ripe for economic activity. Both scenarios are a waste of land and 
money. Tools to combat this problem range from more aggressive 
(parking caps) to simple and pragmatic (easing requirements) and 
have been successfully implemented throughout the country.
Relax standards: The simplest way to facilitate more intelligent parking 
is to relax parking standards. Developers or retailers may opt to provide 
less parking if they are allowed to do so. Relaxing parking standards 
will likely not address big box or mall parking. It may, however, make 
the difference between a main street shop and a vacant storefront. 
Peak parking plans: In conjunction with relaxing standards, 
municipalities can make peak shopping day plans. Many retail chains 
ensure that they have enough parking for December 24th 365 days 
a year. By providing overflow parking and shuttle services on heavy 
shopping days, a municipality can help retail outlets refrain from 
providing parking that is used only two or three days a year.
Shared parking: Beyond simply relaxing standards, a community 
can facilitate shared parking. Different land uses have different peak 
parking hours and can often make use of the same parking lots. For 
example, a restaurant and an office may share a parking area where 
the peak use for the office is in the daytime and the restaurant sees 
the most use in the evening. The same relationship could apply to 
any reasonable mixture of residential, commercial and retail uses. 
Shared public parking: In town or commercial centers, shared parking 
can be achieved by having developers pay a fee-in-lieu instead of 
providing their own parking. The fees can then be used to create more 
efficient off-site parking which benefits a variety of users. The fee-in-lieu 
strategy requires that a municipality create legislation for its fee-in-lieu 
program and get into the business of building parking lots or structures. 
Such a proactive role may be difficult to implement, but it ensures more 
efficient parking in a higher intensity area. A fee-in-lieu program also 
frees potential developers from having to create their own parking.
Credits for existing parking: Shared parking can also be achieved by 
crediting existing parking in parking requirements. For example, a new 
business that is required to create 20 parking spaces could count exiting 
on-street parking or a nearby garage for some of its requirement. Unlike 
the creation of municipal parking structures, easing parking requirements 
to include existing spaces requires only a change in zoning code.
Parking caps: Some communities have a cap on the number of parking 
spaces in certain areas and for specific types of development. This 
measure allows a municipality to exert control over future land-use 
by ensuring that vibrant centers will not be overrun by large parking 
areas. Examples of such practice include a total cap for parking spaces 
in a downtown area (Portland, Oregon), a maximum number of parking 
spaces per 1,000 square feet of commercial space (Seattle, Washington), 
or a limitation on the percentage of total building space that can be 
devoted to parking (San Francisco, California). While aggressive, these 
caps promote both transit use and increased density in a city’s core.
Regional parking plan: A more recent idea is the regionalization of 
parking planning. Planners in Auckland, New Zealand, have begun 
to address parking not on a block or area basis, but as a regional 
concern. The plan combines parking maximums, shared parking, 
and transit- and pedestrian-friendly design. By making parking a 
regional concern, Auckland is able to plan for where more parking 
may be needed and facilitate other modes of accessibility. Parking 
then becomes proactive, rather than reactive to retail development.
By employing creative parking strategies, a city is better able to create 
pedestrian-friendly environments and realize benefits of walkability 
in commercial and town centers. Retail chains see that when shoppers 
leave the car in one area and walk from one destination to the next, they 
spend more time in the retail center. More time means more dollars 
spent. In addition to wise use of land and construction resources, 
creative parking techniques make good retail business sense.
w w w. e n v i s i o n c a c h e v a l l e y. c o m
•	 Massachusetts	State	Government	Smart	Growth/Smart	
Energy	Toolkit	Outreach	and	Education	Page
•	 Lincoln	Institute	of	Land	Policy	Density	Tour
w w w. e n v i s i o n c a c h e v a l l e y. c o m
•	 Victoria	Transport	Policy	Institute.	TDM	Encyclopedia	Parking	
Management,	Strategies	for	More	Efficient	Use	of	Parking	
Resources
•	 EPA	Smart	Growth	Resources.	Parking	Spaces	/	Community	
Places
•	 Metropolitan	Transportation	Commission	(San	Francisco	Bay	
Area).	Reforming	Parking	Policies	to	Support	Smart	Growth
•	 Auckland	Regional	Council	(New	Zealand).	Transport	–	
Strategies	and	Documents:	Regional	Parking	Strategy

Purchase of de velopment Rights
Purchase of development rights (PDR) programs usually involve a 
partnership between the public and private landowners to preserve 
valued land and uses on a parcel. Through PDR programs, the public 
provides a cash payment to a landowner for the value of the development 
rights associated with a parcel. The landowner maintains ownership 
of the land but is compensated for relinquishing the right to develop 
it as real estate. Agriculture and other uses of the land continue. 
For the public, PDR programs enable land conservation at a much-
reduced expense, as the cost of PDR is less than the outright purchase 
of the land, and costs associated with subsequent management 
of the land remain the responsibility of the landowner.
PDR transactions are voluntary for landowners. They are undertaken 
only when a landowner believes it is in his or her best interest. The 
purpose of a PDR transaction is to help private landowners shield 
working and other privately-owned landscapes from development 
pressures through compensatory approaches to conservation.
Tax or Bond for Conservation of Critical and 
Working Lands
Securing a revenue source for purchasing development rights can be 
a challenge. Many communities and regions have taxed themselves or 
approved bonds for conservation purposes. Even a relatively small local 
financial commitment can enable communities to leverage funds that are 
available through state, federal, or other agencies. National conservation 
organizations can help communities explore potential funding strategies.
Land Trusts
A land trust is a private, nonprofit organization that conserves land by 
undertaking or assisting in land or conservation easement acquisition. 
Local or national land trusts often hold the conservation easements 
that result from a purchase of development rights transaction. They 
may also engage in stewardship of the conserved land or easements. 
Just as water rights attached to a parcel of land have long been bought 
and sold in the West, the right to subdivide and develop a piece of 
property can be bought and sold. A willing landowner can sell the 
development rights of a property to a qualified conservation entity, 
such as a non-profit land trust, public agency, or historic preservation 
organization. Development rights are sold and extinguished as part of a 
PDR transaction that places a conservation easement on the parcel. The 
landowner retains full ownership and use of the property for purposes 
other than real-estate development (from the Trust for Public Land).
Recreation di stricts
A regional trail system is a part of the Cache Valley Vision. Such 
a system provides recreational opportunity, a healthy means of 
transportation, and opportunities to enjoy nearby natural or agricultural 
lands. However, for many smaller and mid-sized communities, the 
creation of recreational opportunities like a trail system is a difficult 
financial burden for a single municipality, and if the system is to 
connect the region, it should be part of a regional plan. A common 
way to create such a network is through a recreation district. 
A recreation district is an assessment district created by two or more 
municipalities for the creation or improvement of a recreational area 
or facility. Such districts can be funded by a tax levy (usually property 
tax), a bond, or impact fees from development. Often recreation districts 
are funded by a combination of these elements. In many cases, the 
creation of such a district is put to ballot, ensuring it is something the 
citizens want and are willing to pay for. Recreation districts can be 
motivated by a need to increase recreational options and levels of service, 
tourism, citizen health, or to increase non-motorized transportation. 
Recreation districts can provide a number of recreation services, including 
trail systems, ball fields, sports complexes and greenways. When creating 
a recreation district, both the scope of the district and the revenue stream 
for its creation and maintenance should be clearly defined. For instance, 
if the district is limited to a trail system, proposed trail routes and the 
purposes of the system should be outlined before the district is created. 
A district whose mission is to simply create more trails in Cache Valley is 
unlikely to achieve defined success. A district intended to create better 
non-motorized transportation between River Heights and North Logan, 
with proposed routes, is more likely to succeed. This is especially true if 
such a district is defined as a partnership between River Heights, Logan, 
and North Logan. The partnership is further strengthened if it is defined to 
include a proposed bond and a tax assessment from all three municipalities. 
This is not to say a valley-wide recreation district is unfeasible, but its 
purpose and scope would need to be specific. A valley-wide district would 
require tremendous cooperation but could yield benefits, especially 
if a key resource, like the Bonneville Shoreline Trail, were the focus. 
The Snyderville Basin Recreation District, in Summit County, Utah, 
has planned and created numerous trails, parks, and recreation 
facilities to serve its residents. The district has been successfully 
funded with a combination of bonds, property tax assessments, and 
impact fees. Once a district is created, there is some flexibility. Park 
City was originally included and then removed itself from the district, 
illustrating the flexibility of a district even after it is created. Because 
the district had created a system that utilized voter authorized bonds 
and impact fees, it was able to exist without the municipality. Careful 
planning of mission and revenue stream in district creation allowed 
for its continued existence and success despite unforeseen hurdles.
Recreation districts can provide a means of regional cooperation 
and fund recreation opportunities in Cache Valley. The valley 
hosts diverse landscapes and scenic beauty, elements that could 
be a part of a defined recreation system that includes both active 
and passive recreational components. A recreation district 
could help Cache Valley achieve its recreational goals.
Bike paths can link cities and help citizens to lead more healthy 
lifestyles. Trail networks can also offer transportation options and 
attract tourism.
Photo Credit: www.pedbikeimages.org
Many areas in the West are managing successful PDR programs. Some 
Colorado initiatives incorporating PDR follow: 
st atewide: Great ou tdoors Colorado (GoCo)
In 1992, Coloradans voted to create Great Outdoors Colorado 
(GOCO). GOCO receives a portion of the state’s lottery proceeds and, 
since its inception, has committed over $650 million to more than 3,000 
projects in the state, protecting more than 850,000 acres of open space 
in perpetuity. PDR has been a major tool, conserving land along river 
corridors and in mountain valleys, land for wildlife habitat, agricultural 
land, land that separates communities, and land that buffers state and 
local parks from encroaching development.
lo cal: Routt County, Colorado
Routt County, Colorado, established a PDR program funded by a 
property tax assessment in the mid-1990s. To date, the program has 
conserved about 14,000 acres, primarily farm and ranchland, at a cost 
of about $6 million. Most recently, the county approved $400,000 of 
taxpayer funds to help place 645 acres of the 3,950-acre Elkhead Ranch 
under a conservation easement to be held by the Colorado Cattlemen’s 
Agricultural Land Trust. The easement is the third phase of an effort to 
protect the entire ranch. The Yampa Valley Land Trust is also active in 
the area, holding easements in Routt County.
Case st udy
Since 1988, residents in the Rocky Mountain Region have passed 74% of 
all open space funding measures placed on the ballot. Funds approved 
total $4.4 billion (Source: Trust for Public Land, Land Vote).
di d yo u Know?
49  Envision Ca ChE v all Ey
w w w. e n v i s i o n c a c h e v a l l e y. c o m
•	 Great	Outdoors	Colorado
•	 Land	Trust	Alliance
•	 The	Nature	Conservancy
•	 Trust	for	Public	Lands
•	 Colorado	Cattlemen’s	Agricultural	Land	Trust
•	 Yampa	Valley	Land	Trust
•	 Routt	County,	Colorado.	Open	Lands	Plan
w w w. e n v i s i o n c a c h e v a l l e y. c o m
•	 Michigan	Economic	Development	Corporation.	Marquette	
County	(Michigan)	Creates	a	Recreational	Authority
•	 State	of	Michigan.	Township	Parks	and	Places	of	Recreation	
Act	157	of	1905
•	 Lynch,	Joel	A.	Achieving	Success	in	Trail	Related	Partnerships:	
The	Michigan	State	Forest	Experience
•	 Utah	State	Code,	Special	District	Creation
•	 Idaho	State	Code,	Recreation	District	Creation
•	 Sample	New	Hampshire	Code
•	 State	of	Michigan,	District	Creation	Law
•	 Snyderville	Basin	(Summit	County,	Utah)	Recreation	District.	
History	Page

st reet Connectivity
In the last half century, cul-de-sacs have dominated the design of 
residential developments. Traffic from cul-de-sacs typically feeds 
onto collector roads. While this street pattern offers some privacy and 
can be sensitive to existing land features, it has major drawbacks. 
Hierarchical street development depends entirely on collector roads 
for transportation to and from individual cul-de-sac streets. Because 
there are few ways to get from one place to another, most trips require 
accessing a collector road, which can become congested at peak driving 
hours. Over time, former country lanes are converted to major arterials as 
more lanes, to accommodate increasing traffic loads, are added. Driving 
becomes increasingly unpleasant, and this pattern makes alternative 
modes of transportation, such as walking and cycling, much more difficult. 
The lack of connection between the dead-end roads in a hierarchical 
street system can make destinations that are physically very close 
practically very far away. Unconnected streets may require children 
who live near a school to be driven. The inability to walk reduces 
exercise levels and adversely affects health. The collective miles 
driven negatively impacts air quality, which, in turn, impacts health.
Street connectivity, commonplace in traditional neighborhoods, solves 
these problems quite simply. If traffic on one street becomes too 
congested, there are other options. A diversity of routes to the same 
destination reduces congestion and allows for pedestrian- and bicycle-
friendly routes. Destinations around the block do not require a trip on a 
busy collector street. In addition, connectivity allows greater access for 
emergency service vehicles and makes waste collection more efficient.
Street connectivity is usually associated with a grid system, but a standard 
grid is not the only means to connect streets. A variety of options exist 
to create connectivity, including a modified grid system, a system of 
connected loops, or belts around a grid. Connectivity need not preclude 
taking the environment into account. Streets can curve to avoid streams 
or other natural features. Block sizes can change depending on the use.
The State of Virginia recently adopted street connectivity standards 
whereby new sub-division plats must meet a required “connectivity index.”  
Simply a ratio of roads to intersections, the index requires connectivity but 
allows for freedom of design.
It is important to remember that while buildings come and go in a 
relatively short time span, the layout of streets will likely exist for 
generations. An efficiently designed street network can facilitate 
land uses that create convenient, safe and accessible communities. 
Revenue sh aring/ba lancing Economic 
Growth
A stable tax base, either from property or sales tax, allows a municipality 
to provide needed services. Sometimes competition among neighboring 
municipal governments for these dollars can negatively impact an area’s 
overall land-use and economic development goals. To generate more 
tax revenue with a comparatively small burden on public services, a 
community might reject needed affordable housing in favor of expensive 
homes, or forego office buildings with high-paying jobs in favor of big box 
retail stores with low-wage jobs. 
The tax structure creates incentive for municipalities to attract and 
recruit retail employers over other types of industry, and the desire to 
secure development that generates sales tax revenue can lead to bidding 
wars between communities as they compete for a limited share of an 
existing market. From a regional perspective, providing subsidies for 
businesses that have already decided to locate in an area is unnecessary 
and may be harmful. A big box store, for example, may draw sales from 
existing local businesses and shopping centers and, for the region as a 
whole, there will be no net gain in economic activity. 
Zoning for sales tax revenues can foster undesirable development 
patterns. Newer communities with extensive new commercial 
development and relatively affluent homes may have high quality 
public services with a relatively low tax rate. A central city area may 
see its commercial center decline and the exodus of its more affluent 
residents. As it imposes a higher tax rate and delivers poorer quality 
services, disparities increase and can engender a cycle of disinvestment 
in a central city area and increasing investment in land even farther 
away. Alternatively, some new communities may be primarily bedroom 
communities, and are left with the costs of residential development 
that doesn’t pay for itself and little sales tax revenue to offset the public 
service costs of housing. 
Regional Tax-Base Sharing
Regional tax-base sharing offers one way to alleviate an unbalanced 
regional tax structure. Municipalities within an area agree to share 
tax proceeds from new development. This reduces interregional 
competition, facilitates other planning goals, such as preserving open 
space or maintaining a vibrant downtown, encourages communities 
to cooperate on regional economic development goals, and leads 
to a more equitable distribution of tax burdens and public services. 
Because of the level of cooperation required, this strategy can be hard 
to implement. For example, cities with a large share of retail business 
relative to others in the region may not want to give up sales tax dollars. 
Tax-base sharing has been successfully implemented by the Twin Cities 
Metropolitan Area, in Minnesota, Hackensack Meadowlands, New Jersey, 
and other regions. The Twin Cities program, known as the Minnesota Fiscal 
Disparities Act (https://www.revisor.leg.state.mn.us/statutes/?id=473F), 
was established in 1971. Under the act every city in the metro area 
contributes 40% of its commercial-industrial taxes to a regional pool. 
This pool is then allocated under a formula with regard to the population 
and fiscal capacity of the various municipalities in the region. The 
act has withstood a constitutional test and an attempt at repeal. 
Communities competing for tax base can miss out on achieving 
other goals, such as the creation of higher wage jobs.
Interlocal Revenue Sharing Agreements
The other, more common approach is an interlocal revenue sharing 
agreement. Such an agreement between municipalities or other local 
or regional governments allows for the sharing of revenue from 
development in a manner agreed upon by the participating governments. 
According to the Utah Attorney General, a revenue agreement of this type 
is legal, even if not all residents paying into the system receive benefits, 
as long as the agreement was adopted under a general balloting process. 
Such programs free an individual municipality from some of the burden 
of seeking revenue from retail sales or high-end housing at the expense of 
regional needs and goals, including the creation of high-quality jobs and a 
variety of housing options.
Twaddell, Hannah Making the Connection Planning Commissioners Journal 
No. 58 Spring 2005 reprinting Local street connectivity patterns compared 
— from diagram by City of Salem, Oregon (based onTri-County Metropolitan 
Transportation District).
Connectivity need not preclude the benefits of the cul-de-sac.
An economic development plan should focus on balanced growth and 
a regional perspective. Revenue sharing enables a regional view, as 
communities can be less concerned with attracting retail development (a 
larger share of a fixed market) and more concerned with attracting high 
quality jobs that actually grow the market. Jobs in the retail sector tend 
to pay lower wages than jobs in knowledge-intensive industries, which 
strengthen the regional economy in several ways: they bring new wealth 
into a region by exporting goods and services to customers outside the 
region; they pay high wages relative to other sectors of the economy; 
they provide career advancement for employees; and they contribute 
to the development of a skilled workforce. The location and expansion 
of business in high-skill, high-wage industry sectors in a region is good 
for everyone because the job and wealth creation that these businesses 
bring to the region spills across municipal boundaries. Employees may 
work and earn their paychecks in one municipality, but they spend them 
across a region. Revenue sharing can further balance wealth and equalize 
services across communities. 
ba lancing Economic Growth
iMP lE ME nTaTi on Tool KiT  50
w w w. e n v i s i o n c a c h e v a l l e y. c o m
•	 American	Planning	Association.	APA	Growing	Smart	Guidebook	
(Ch	14:	Devices	and	Tax	Relief	Programs)
•	 Utah	AG	Opinion	Number	91-031.	Millard	County	Revenue	
Sharing
•	 Minnesota	Code	for	Twin	Cities	Revenue	Sharing	Program
•	 Proposed	Code	for	Sacramento,	California.	Tax	Sharing	
Legislation
•	 Stuart	Meak	Testimony	to	the	Joint	Legislative	committee	New	
Jersey	Legislature
•	 Code	of	Virginia.	1994.	Revenue	Sharing	Agreements	(Code	of	
Va.	15-1-1167.1.2)
•	 Envision	Utah.	2005.	Thinking	and	Acting	Regionally	in	the	
Greater	Wasatch	Area:	Implications	for	Local	Economic	
Development	Practice	(available	at	Envision	Utah)
Printed Resources
• H all Kenneth B. and Gerald A. Porterfield. 2001. Community 
by Design: New Urbanism for Suburbs and Small Communities .          
New York: McGraw-Hill.
•
 T
waddell, Hannah. 2005. Making the Connection . Planning 
Commissioners Journal, 58 (Spring).
•
 G
irling, Cynthia and Ronald Kellett. 2005. Skinny Streets and 
Green Neighborhoods: Design for Environment and Community .   
Washington, D.C.: Island Press.
w w w. e n v i s i o n c a c h e v a l l e y. c o m
•	 Virginia	State	Code.	Secondary	Street	Acceptance	
Requirements		
•	 Office	of	the	Secretary	of	Transportation,	State	of	Virginia
•	 Complete	Streets.	Complete	Streets	Policy	Elements
•	 Colombia,	Missouri.	Model	Street	Standards	–	Illustrated	
Code

st reet de sign st andards
Streets are our shared community spaces. The way streets 
look and feel, as well as the modes of transportation they 
support, define our communities. A balance of different street 
uses and a range of street designs can help maintain a feeling of 
community as well as support residential and retail activities.
Main Street in Logan offers several components that are signatures of 
great street design. It accommodates pedestrians with trees, lighting, and 
plenty of sidewalk width. The storefronts are uniform along the street, 
and entrances face the sidewalk, creating the “walls” of the public space 
that is the street. On-street parking not only allows for quick access 
to a shop by car, but it also protects pedestrians from auto traffic.
Complete street design is not simply an act of beautification 
but also one of function. Street design standards can improve 
mobility choices, with careful planning of networks for pedestrians, 
cyclists, public transportation, private vehicles, and freight.
Street design need not be complicated, nor preclude some streets 
from being quick modes of auto transportation. A single street doesn’t 
necessarily accommodate all modes of transportation well, but a 
network of streets should allow a maximum benefit to pedestrians, 
cyclists, public transportation, cars and freight. If the system is to 
work, all modes should benefit from multiple convenient routes to 
many destinations, without long detours. Several cities (including the 
Columbia, Missouri, standards referenced previously) have created 
model street standards for a network of different types of roads that 
compose a complete street system. Such design ensures that residents 
can benefit from many viable transportation options in a community. 
Good street design also provides commercial benefit. Pedestrians 
who linger along a comfortable street, for example, are more likely to 
stop and spend money in a shop. All over the country, Main Street-like 
street design, both in new development and in existing downtowns, is 
beginning to draw retail development and shoppers attracted to the 
convenience and more traditional neighborhood shopping experience.
Though more recent studies confirm the benefits of street design 
standards, good street design is not the result of new thinking or 
scientific study. Our best designed streets are often the main streets of 
our older communities. These streets were designed not just for cars, but 
as public spaces for walking, biking and living. They create a sense of 
community and have served as meaningful public space for generations.
Transfer of de velopment Rights (TdR )
As with all of the tools discussed, TDR operates on the premise that 
land owners possess a “bundle of rights” that run with the land. These 
rights include the rights to sell, mortgage, possess and use, lease, gift, 
subdivide and develop. When TDR is employed, a willing landowner sells 
some or all of the right to subdivide and develop to another, who then 
uses those rights to develop at a greater intensity on another site in a 
targeted growth area. A conservation easement is placed on lands from 
which development rights are transferred, permanently prohibiting 
development, while maintaining the rights that have not been sold. 
This means that the land remains in its current use (often farming) 
and can be bought and sold as such in the future, but it also means that 
development is no longer an option on the property. In Cache Valley, for 
example, a farmer could sell development rights to a developer wanting 
to create a mixed-use project in a town center; in this way, development 
rights are transferred from one property to another. Perhaps the best 
known example of a TDR program is in Montgomery County, Maryland, 
where more than 43,000 acres of farmland have been protected.
For a region seeking to preserve its critical lands and working farms 
and ranches, TDR can be a useful tool. It works with the market to allow 
the permanent conservation of key resources while enabling more 
intensive development in areas where it makes sense—where public 
services are efficient and readily available. TDR projects are privately 
funded, and the land involved remains in private hands. Once a regional 
or municipal code for local TDR is created, the process can be largely 
conducted by private parties (different areas require different levels 
of government review).  The creation of a TDR overlay zone (see the 
sample Mapleton Code) does not require the transfer of development 
rights, but rather enables the exchange should landowners desire it. 
Established TDR zones also allow municipalities to confine services 
to specific areas, decreasing costs and potentially lowering taxes. 
In Fremont County, Idaho, a TDR program was instituted in 1991 with 
the purpose of protecting farm and wetlands. Since implementation, 200 
acres of sensitive areas have been protected. The Fremont code makes 
specific the types of areas it wishes to protect (“productive cropland, 
wetlands, or stream corridors”) and the type of land-use the transferred 
rights are intended to create (“cluster development”). By specifically 
outlining what the code intends to achieve, Fremont County uses its 
code to realize community goals. In general, TDRs work best when 
clear goals for both sending areas and receiving areas are identified.
Like other tools, TDR will not work everywhere. Where 
there are landowners willing to use TDR, with its emphasis 
on private property and market-based trades, it can be 
a great asset in a region’s development toolbox. 
Common Components of a TDR Program: Sending Areas 
and Receiving Areas
Sending Areas:   Sending areas may be agricultural land, historic 
properties or other lands that are important to the community 
for their current use. In sending areas, landowners could opt to 
develop per current zoning, or they could use TDR to transfer their 
development rights to a receiving area, usually selling them to a 
developer. When the sending sites have non-development, income-
producing potential, such as farming or forestry, landowners can 
continue to receive that income, in addition to the proceeds from the 
sale of their development rights.
Receiving Areas:    Receiving areas are places that a community 
has designated as appropriate for higher intensity development. 
Often these areas are selected because they are close to existing 
development, jobs, shopping, transportation, infrastructure and 
other urban services. These areas receive the development rights 
from a sending area. Developers realize economic benefit from the 
ability to develop at a higher intensity, jurisdictions reduce the cost 
of public services when development occurs in strategic areas, and a 
community may realize goals such as the creation of a more vibrant 
town center or a neighborhood with more housing choices.
Photo Credit: www.duvallwa.gov
Streets designed only to maximize auto efficiency may overlook 
a street’s potential as valuable public space, for walking, biking, 
shopping, and gathering.
Mapleton, Utah, established a voluntary TDR program in the 1990s that 
has since preserved several hundred acres of land on Mapleton’s east 
bench, while compensating bench land owners at fair market value. The 
program has also allowed development at higher and more profitable 
densities in the more easily developed valley areas. It has also saved 
the city the high maintenance costs of servicing infrastructure on the 
benches. While there are some people who dislike the program—
because they want to see development on the bench, they want higher 
densities in the valley without requiring the use of TDR, or they don’t 
want higher densities anywhere—overall, the program has been very 
popular and successful in the eyes of the general public and elected and 
appointed officials. 
Case st udy
51  Envision Ca ChE v all Ey
Printed Resources
• G irling, Cynthia and Ronald Kellett. 2005. Skinny Streets & Green 
Neighborhoods: Design for Environment and Community . Washington 
D.C.: Island Press. 
•
 H
all, Kenneth B and Gerald A Porterfield. 2001. Community by 
Design: New Urbanism for Suburbs and Small Communities . New 
York: McGraw-Hill.
w w w. e n v i s i o n c a c h e v a l l e y. c o m
•	 Calthorpe,Peter,	Michael	Corbett,	Andres	Duany,	Moule,	
Elizabeth	Plater-Zyberk,	Elizabeth	and	Stefanos	Polyzoides.	
1998.	The	Ahwahnee	Principles	for	Smart	Economic	
Development,	Local	Government	Commission
•	 Litman,	Todd.	1999.	Evaluating	Traffic	Calming	Benefits,	Costs	
and	Equity	Impacts.	Victoria	Transport	Policy	Institute
•	 Local	Government	Commission.	Community	Design	Fact	
Sheet	Page
w w w. e n v i s i o n c a c h e v a l l e y. c o m
•	 Realtor.org.	Field	Guide	to	Transfer	of	Development	Rights
•	 American	Farmland	Trust.	Transfer	of	Development	Rights	
Fact	Sheet
•	 Mapleton	City,	Utah.	TDR	Code
•	 Utah	State	Code
•	 Idaho	State	Code
•	 Idaho	TDR	Enabling	Legislation
•	 Fremont	County,	Idaho.	TDR	Rules	(Page	30)
•	 Beyond	Takings	and	Givings

Transit-Ready and Transit-or iented  
de
velopment
Transit-oriented developments are places developed with densities 
that support an adjacent transit system. Stores, restaurants, 
offices, recreation, schools and housing are connected by 
sidewalks to create a walkable urban neighborhood.
As new development occurs, communities must make decisions 
about how such development will interact with the existing urban 
fabric. Compact development reduces development impact, and 
residents can walk to many destinations. New development that is 
compact, walkable, and located along logical transit routes is “transit 
ready.” The density to make existing or planned transit systems work 
is in place. The supporting pedestrian network is also present, an 
important factor, since all transit journeys begin and end with a walk.
The benefit of building developments that are transit ready is more 
than simply a reduction in congestion. Both residential and commercial 
property values rise as access to transit is increased. This correlation, 
through levy of property tax, may help to pay for transit improvements. 
Transit also mobilizes the formerly immobile. Those too old, too young, 
or who simply do not wish to drive have increased options for mobility.
As communities develop and grow, integration with transit can 
come in phases. Transit-ready communities benefit from walkability 
even without the addition of a bus line. As they grow, transit 
service can increase. Regular bus service can be enhanced, and a 
popular line can be converted to rapid bus service with dedicated 
lanes. Rapid bus lines can be precursors to future light rail lines. 
By building upon existing transit routes, the system can expand 
in areas where ridership is already prevalent and established.
Phased transit development may be ideal in Cache Valley. A phased 
approach allows for testing routes and frequencies in new and already 
served areas to develop an efficient and convenient system. The addition of 
transit routes may induce some degree of ridership. Creating transit-ready 
neighborhoods encourages more ridership in the future. More transit 
riders mean fewer cars, less congestion, less pollution and more options.
Transportation Master Plan
Region-wide transportation plans enable multiple jurisdictions 
to work together to achieve regional mobility goals. The Cache 
Valley Metropolitan Planning Organization and the Cache Valley 
Transit Authority are leading the way in providing multimodal 
transportation planning for large areas of Cache Valley. 
The Cache Valley Metropolitan Planning Organization’s 2030 regional 
transportation plan (RTP) (http://www.cachempo.org/2007rtp.
html) is comprehensive, multimodal, long range, and is updated 
regularly. As the valley implements the Cache Valley Vision, an update 
to the RTP reflecting changing land-use policy will be helpful. Below 
is a list of issues to consider when revising the Cache Valley RTP.
A Plan for the Entire Valley:  The current planning boundary 
runs from just north of Smithfield to just south of Hyrum. A 
more effective transportation plan would extend to include the 
entire valley, including Franklin County. Short of an interstate 
document, working closely with IDOT and Franklin County when 
updating the RTP would create a more inclusive document.
Improving Connectivity:   While major corridors are a focus in most 
transportation planning documents, improving roadway connectivity and 
ensuring multiple routes to destinations is worth regional study. A regional 
approach to second and third tier streets could improve connections 
system wide, creating alternatives for cars, bikes, buses and pedestrians.
The Land-Use Connection:   The current RTP makes a great case for the 
connection between land-use and transportation planning. An update may 
include specific instances of how transportation planning and land-use 
might interact on the ground. The development of more urban cores as a 
result of the visioning process may enable greater bus service. Planning for 
bus rapid transit or other multimodal corridors may require development 
that locates more potential riders along its route. The selection of specific 
areas targeted for more intensive land-use and transportation options 
can strengthen both land-use and transportation planning documents.
Securing Rights of Way:  Financial constraints can make 
any property acquisition difficult, but securing rights-of-way 
early is usually easier and more cost effective than waiting until 
development pressures increase. As alignments for BRT, bike 
and pedestrian paths, or rail are planned, a proactive acquisition 
strategy can ensure that needed rights-of-way are secured. 
Capital Improvement Plan:  Though the current RTP has an extensive 
implementation section, it stops short of a capital improvement 
plan. This reflects the difficulty in creating a specific improvement 
budget for a series of projects with multiple sources of funding. 
However, targeted funding of specific projects helps to ensure that 
the long-range transportation initiatives set out in the plan are met.
Multimodal Focus:  The current RTP does a great job of including 
alternative transportation modes. Transit maps (including a BRT 
lines) and bike and pedestrian trails maps provided in the document 
are extensive. Updates to the RTP should continue this work.
Access for All:  Access to transit can be necessary for the livelihood of 
those of more modest means. Transportation planning that addresses 
the needs of those who rely on transit helps to create more opportunity 
for those individuals. Transportation master plans should also 
include provisions for access to transit by low-income individuals.
Every transit journey begins and ends with a walk.
Photo Credit: www.pedbikeimages.org
A neighborhood bus provides options without changing the 
character of an area.
Photo Credit: www.pedbikeimages.org
Photo Credit: www.pedbikeimages.org
iMP lE ME nTaTi on Tool KiT  52
w w w. e n v i s i o n c a c h e v a l l e y. c o m
•	 Cache	Valley	Metropolitan	Organization.	2030	Regional	
Transportation	Plan
•	 Sanchez,	Thomas	W.,	et	al.	2007.	The	Right	to	Transportation:	
Moving	to	Equity.	Chicago:	Planners	Press
•	 U.S.	Department	of	Transportation.	Transportation	Planning	
Capacity	Building	Resource	Index
•	 City	of	Boulder,	Colorado.	2008	Transportation	Master	Plan
w w w. e n v i s i o n c a c h e v a l l e y. c o m
•	 Reconnecting	America	for	LISC	Phoenix.	Case	Studies	for	
Transit	Oriented	Development
•	 El	Nasser,	Haya.	2007.	Builders	Create	Suburbs	with	
Downtown	Appeal.	USA	Today.	6	June
•	 Florida	Department	of	Transportation.	Transit-Oriented	
Development	Guidelines
•	 Capitol	Metro,	Austin	Texas.	Transit-Ready	Development	
Guide
•	 Hennepin	County	(Minnesota),	Department	of	Housing,	
Community	Works	and	Transit.	2009	Transit-Oriented	
Development	(TOD)	Program	Guidelines
•	 Salt	Lake	City.	Sample	Code:	Salt	Lake	City	Gateway	District

Water Efficient de sign Guidelines
Though the regional water supply is not a limiter of growth 
in coming decades, water is a precious resource in the arid 
West and should be used with care. With a growing number of 
residents and a continued focus on agriculture, Cache Valley’s 
water resources must be carefully managed in the future.
In urban areas, the largest drain on a community’s water resources is 
outdoor use—often residential lawns. Lawns look nice, and parents 
with small children can attest to their usefulness as play spaces, but 
when it comes to water use, they are not necessarily the best default 
choice. Utah State University and other groups offer ideas for local and 
drought tolerant plants that create a lush and attractive yard setting. 
Water efficient design standards are not about telling people what 
to do with their yards, but rather creating options and incentives. By 
expanding residential code to encourage a mix of hardscape areas 
and a variety of plants and shrubs, residents have more freedom to 
design their yards and enable thirsty lawns to be replaced in whole 
or in part with low or no water options. Good first steps include 
amending zoning code to encourage lawn retrofits and to encourage the 
development of other landscaping options in newly developed areas.
Incentives can provide further motivation to retrofit one’s yard. The 
most obvious incentive is the money people can save on their water bills. 
In many cases water use can be cut in half. Some cities provide financial 
incentives for creating a more water efficient yard. These may include 
subsidies in the form of rebates for water control and irrigation devices 
and subsidized or bulk purchasing of local and drought tolerant plants.
Many communities and water districts have also created demonstration 
gardens. These gardens not only show how a water efficient yard 
can look, but give plant names and care instructions. Nearby 
demonstration gardens exist in Salt Lake City and Ogden, Utah.
Addressing landscape design is a good step toward addressing a 
community’s water use, but it is not a substitute for addressing 
water issues in the larger context of land-use policy. Other 
regions with less water have begun to look carefully at their 
use of groundwater to ensure that groundwater use does not 
exceed the rate at which groundwater resources recharge. 
In Arizona and other states, so called “prove it” laws are successful in 
helping communities manage their water resources. “Prove it” laws 
require that a developer demonstrate viability from a water use 
standpoint before development is approved. Developers may need to 
show a groundwater supply for a certain number of years or access 
to a certain amount of acre feet from an uncontested supply. By 
ensuring that development does not occur without the necessary 
water, communities secure a measure of long-term water viability.
ur ban Containment: ur ban Growth 
bo
undaries and 
ur
ban 
se
rvice 
are
as
A more intensive technique for “keeping the city the city and 
the country the country” is the implementation of an urban 
containment structure. This can take one of two forms.
Urban Growth Boundaries
When a city creates an urban growth boundary, it defines its 
boundaries and then, through the use of conservation strategies, 
such as the purchase of development rights or ordinances, creates 
an area around the city where development cannot occur. Such 
boundaries exist prominently in Portland, Oregon, and Boulder, 
Colorado, and many other cities and counties across the country.
The existence of an urban growth boundary typically increases the 
value of adjacent urban land. If the area used as the buffer is agricultural 
land, adopting a boundary stabilizes its value as agricultural land 
but it loses its value for development purposes. Without an urban 
growth boundary, the quality of farmland adjacent to urban areas 
loses agricultural value, as fragmentation occurs and farmers are not 
inclined to invest in farm property that is likely to soon be developed. 
Urban growth boundaries have some pitfalls. If the land or development 
rights surrounding a city are purchased outright, the boundary is 
less likely to be challenged and is more stable. However, this process 
is extremely expensive. Other methods, such as downzoning, are less 
expensive, but may pose challenges to privately property rights. An 
urban growth boundary must be both understood and acceptable to the 
population at large. Such serious restriction of land-use can be perceived 
as egregious government regulation. For this reason alone, an urban 
growth boundary may not be an appropriate tool for many communities.
Urban Service Areas
A second, less rigorous form of urban containment is the creation of an 
urban service area. A service area does not dictate where one can and 
cannot build, but rather where a municipality will and will not provide 
services. The idea is that there will be less inclination to develop an area 
where one must provide their own septic services, haul their own trash, etc.
While the urban service area is easier to implement and less 
expensive than an urban growth boundary, it is also less effective at 
containing growth. For some uses (rural residential and industrial), 
the lack of services may be an acceptable burden. Also, unlike the 
urban growth boundary, the creation of an urban service area 
does not have a stabilizing or increasing effect on land value.
On the plus side, an urban service area has financial benefits for a 
municipality. By limiting the expansion of a service network to a defined 
and reasonable area, the city ensures that it will not have to create 
expensive extensions. Planning becomes proactive within the urban 
service area, rather than reactive to development on the fringe.
With the creation of either an urban service area or an urban 
growth boundary, allowable density inside the urban area will 
likely need to be increased to accommodate growth that would 
otherwise have occurred in outlying areas. If increased growth 
is not accepted within the boundary or area, it will leapfrog the 
containment structure, creating even more dispersed sprawl.
Urban containment can markedly change the development patterns 
of an area. Though it is difficult and expensive to implement and 
may reduce housing affordability, containment can ensure lasting 
definition of what is urban and what is rural. By increasing urban 
density and stabilizing the value of agricultural land, urban 
containment can also make long-term financial sense.
Farmers work the urban growth boundary near                
Portland, Oregon.
Photo Credit: www.oregonlive.com
With a growing population and limited resources, water is only 
going to become more of a concern both globally and locally.
Photo Credit: www.theutahhouse.org
53  Envision Ca ChE v all Ey
Printed Resources
• N elson, Arthur and Casey Dawkins. Urban Containment in the 
United States: History, Models, and Techniques for Regional and 
Metropolitan Growth Management . American Planning Association, 
PAS Report 520.
•
 N
elson, Arthur C. 1986. Using Land Markets to Evaluate Urban 
Containment Programs . Journal of the American Planning 
Association. Volume 52, Issue 2  (June): 156 – 171.
w w w. e n v i s i o n c a c h e v a l l e y. c o m
•	 Jaeger,	William	K.	and	Plantinga,	Andrew	J.	2007.	How	have	
land-use	regulations	affected	property	values	in	Oregon?	
Oregon	State	University
•	 State	of	Oregon.	Land-Use	Planning	Coordination	Code	
(Including	Growth	Boundary	Code)
•	 Georgia	Partnership	for	Quality	Growth	Toolkit.	Urban	
Service	Area
•	 Santa	Clara	County,	California.	Urban	Service	Area	Policies
Printed Resources
• M cKinney, Matthew. 2003. Linking Growth and Land-Use to Water 
Supply. Lincoln Institute of Land Policy.
w w w. e n v i s i o n c a c h e v a l l e y. c o m
•	 Anderson,	Kristin	M.	2004.	An	Investigation	into	What	
Planning	Departments	and	Water	Authorities	Can	Learn	from	
Eleven	Communities’	Waterwise	Landscaping	Ordinances.	
University	of	Oregon
•	 Environmental	Protection	Agency.	2002.	Water	Efficient	
Landscaping:	Preventing	Pollution	and	Using		Resources	
Wisely
•	 Kratsch,	Heidi	A.	Native	and	Drought	Tolerant	Plants	in	the	
Landscape.	Utah	State	University
•	 Utah	State	Univ.	Cache	County	Horticulture	Resource	Page
•	 Colorado	Department	of	Local	Affairs,	Office	of	Smart	
Growth.	Water	Efficient	Landscape	Design:	Model	Ordinance
•	 Marina	Coast	Water	District,	California.	Water	Wise	
Landscape	Incentive	Program	Description

This report is available online at
www.envisioncachevalley.com

