 
 
 
 
*AMENDED* AGENDA  
SNYDERVILLE BASIN PLANNING COMMISSION  
NOTICE is hereby given that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission will meet, on  
Tuesday, September 26, 2023 
electronically, via Zoom, and at the anchor location of RICHINS BUILDING 
1885 WEST UTE BOULEVARD 
PARK CITY, UT 84098 
 
(Agenda items may or may not be discussed in the order listed) 
 
You may attend in person or Join Zoom webinar:   
https://summitcountyut.zoom.us/j/98189226475 OR 
 
To listen by phone only: Dial 1-669-900-9128 or 1-253-215-8782, Webinar ID: 981 8922 6475   
**AMENDED AGENDA** 
4:30 P.M. Work Session 
 
Project #23-152. Work Session on a Proposed Code Amendment to Chapter 10-2-
17, NMU-1 Zone; and Chapter 10-11, Definitions. Legislative Review. 
 
Planners: Madlyn McDonough and Laura Kuhrmeyer  
NMU Zone Code Amendment.docx 
 
**Project #23-021. Work Session on the proposed MPD/Rezone known as 
Crossroads at Silver Creek. Legislative Review. Applicant: Tony Tyler, 
representing Columbia Pacific. 
 
Planners: Madlyn McDonough and Laura Kuhrmeyer 
 
Crossroads at Silver Creek Work Session Report.pdf 
 
6:00 P.M. Regular Session 
 
Project #23-125: Address: 3419 Olympic Parkway, Summit County, UT; Parcels PP-63-A 
(254.40 acres) and PP-65-A (124.94 acres) 
 
Public hearing and possible action regarding a Conditional Use Permit to improve portions of 
the Utah Olympic Park hillside into two new ski runs; Applicant: Jamie Kimball representing 
Utah Athletic Foundation; 
 
Senior Planner: Amir Caus, AICP 
 
UOP Ski Runs Phase 3 CUP Staff Report.pdf 
1
Commission Items 
 
Director Items 
 
Adjourn 
 
To view staff reports available at the end of the Friday before the meeting please 
visit www.summitcounty.org   
Individuals needing special accommodations pursuant to the Americans with Disabilities Act regarding this 
meeting may contact Vicki Geary, Summit County Community Development Department at (435)336 -3123. 
2
Staff Report
 
 
DATE:
September 26, 2023
SUBMITTED BY:
Laura Kuhrmeyer, Community Development
ITEM TYPE:
Discussion
AGENDA SECTION:
4:30 P.M. Work Session
SUBJECT:
Project #23-152. Work Session on a Proposed Code
Amendment to Chapter 10-2-17, NMU-1 Zone; and Chapter
10-11, Definitions. 
Legislative Review.
Planners: Madlyn McDonough and Laura Kuhrmeyer
SUGGESTED ACTION:
ESTIMATED TIME:
1 hour
INTRODUCTION:
BACKGROUND:
CONCLUSION:
  
 
 
SNYDERVILLE BASIN PLANNING COMMISSION AGENDA ITEM REPORT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENTS:
NMU Zone Code Amendment.docx
3
1
STAFF REPORT
To: Snyderville Basin Planning Commission
From: Madlyn McDonough and Laura Kuhrmeyer, County Planners
Date of Meeting: September 26, 2023
Type of Item: Code Amendment; Work Session
Process: Legislative
Project Description
Project Number: 23-152
Project Name: Code Amendment to Chapter 10-2-17, NMU-1 Zone; and 
Chapter 10-11, Definitions
Final Authority: Summit County Council
Proposal
Staff are requesting feedback from the Planning Commission on a proposed Code Amendment 
to the Snyderville Basin Development Code.  The proposed Code Amendment would impact all 
properties zoned NMU-1.  
During recent community conversations and visioning discussions, residents and workers in the 
community have expressed a desire for a greater variety of housing types.  It is believed that 
smaller homes on smaller lots may help to address issues of housing supply shortages.  The 
proposed change is one tool in addressing this issue.  
Staff is proposing an amendment to the NMU-1 Zone to ensure the Goals, Objectives, and 
Policies of the Snyderville Basin General Plan can be appropriately implemented. 
A list of allowed and permitted uses in the NMU-1 Zone can be found in section 10-2-17(B) of 
the Snyderville Basin Development Code.  To the list of Conditional Uses in 10-2-17(B)(3), Staff 
proposes to add the following:
Existing code definition:
Dwelling Unit, Single Family Attached: A dwelling unit in a structure containing three 
(3) or more units sharing one or more vertical common walls and no horizontal floors 
and ceilings, each of which is designed for and used as a dwelling unit exclusively by one 
family and its guests. May also be referred to as a townhouse.
4
2
Proposed new, additional definition:
Cluster Subdivision:  A subdivision of land in which the areas and widths of residential 
lots are reduced and where open space areas are provided to compensate for such lot
size reduction. See Section 10-X-XX for additional criteria.
In addition, the specific parameters associated with “Cluster Subdivision” would be described in 
10-X-XX of the Snyderville Basin Development Code.    
Background on the NMU-1 Zone
The Neighborhood Mixed Use (NMU-1) Zone was adopted on June 9, 2021.  A recent 
application has highlighted an opportunity to improve the NMU-1 Zone through increasing the 
variety of housing types available in compact, mixed-use developments.  
Points to Consider
- Staff feel a Code Amendment to the NMU-1 Zone is an appropriate way to begin to 
address the housing shortage through encouraging the creation of a greater variety of 
housing types.  
- A pending application for Crossroads at Silver Creek is awaiting feedback on this Code
Amendment (see Exhibit C).  
Next Steps
- Finalize the definition of “Cluster Subdivision”
- Finalize addition to the Snyderville Basin Development Code that describes the 
requirements of “Cluster Subdivision”
o Including adding NMU-1 uses to the Use Table
- Schedule Crossroads at Silver Creek for a public hearing and possible recommendation 
to County Council
Attachments
Exhibit A: Modified list of conditional uses in the NMU-1 Zone
Exhibit B: Drafted Addition to the Development Code that describes the requirements of 
“Cluster Subdivision”
Exhibit C: Example of implementation; Crossroads at Silver Creek
5
3
Exhibit A: Chapter 2, Section 10-2-17(B)(3)
Chapter 2, Section 10-2-17(B)(3)
Conditional Uses:
a. Churches, schools and institutional uses;
b. Commercial event center;
c. Cluster Subdivision
d. Dwelling unit, multi-family;
e. Dwelling unit, single-family attached
f. Group home;
g. Hazardous liquids or materials transmission pipelines;
h. Historic structures, preservation of, including related accessory and supporting 
uses;
i. Hotel, motel, or inn;
j. Indoor entertainment such as bowling alleys, skating rinks, movie theaters, 
performing arts center;
k. Mobile food court;
l. Nursing home;
m. Office, intensive;
n. Open recreation uses, commercial;
o. Park and ride lot;
p. Parking lot, commercial;
q. Public facilities;
r. Recreation and athletic facilities, commercial;
s. Recreation and athletic facilities, private;
t. Recreation, public; and
u. Retail sales, general, larger than ten thousand (10,000) square feet less than fifty 
thousand (50,000) square feet in size.
6
4
Exhibit B:
Draft Addition to the Development Code
A. Intent
a. Cluster subdivisions are intended to allow flexibility in neighborhood and 
subdivision lot design by permitting the development of single-family and two-
family dwellings on restricted lot sizes. Cluster subdivisions provide a benefit to 
the community by expanding the range of choice of housing available. A cluster 
subdivision project may (1) provide housing types that are responsive to 
changing household demographics (e.g., retirees, small families, single parent 
households, single person households, dual-owner households); (2) provide 
opportunities for more-affordable housing within single-family neighborhoods; 
(3) encourage creation of functional usable open space in residential 
communities; (4) promote neighborhood interaction and safety through design; 
(5) ensure compatibility with neighboring uses; and (6) provide opportunities for 
infill development consistent with goals of the Snyderville Basin General Plan.
b. Neighborhood activity centers with retail, restaurants, employment, and other 
services are encouraged within walking distance. Pedestrian-oriented 
streetscapes are desired.
B. General Regulations  
a. Permitted Zones: A cluster subdivision shall be a Conditional Use in the NMU-1 
Zone. 
b. No cluster subdivision shall contain less than fifteen (15) dwelling units.
C. Site Development Standards
a. Maximum Lot Area:  At maximum, lot size shall be 5,000 square feet.
b. Lot Width and Side Setbacks: The maximum Lot Width shall be 62.5 feet.  The 
Side Setbacks may be reduced in conjunction with the Lot Width as follows
Lot Width (ft.) Max. Bldg. Footprint Sq. Ft. Minimum Side Setbacks
<25.0 – 37.49 844 3 ft. each
37.5 – 49.99 1,201 5 ft. each
50.0 – 62.5 1,660 10 ft. each
c. Zero Side Setback: One zero side setback per lot may be approved if the 
following requirements are met:
i. The distance between buildings on adjacent lots must equal the 
minimum side Setback of the combined Lots; and
ii. No window or similar opening shall be installed in the building along the 
side having a zero side Setback; and
iii. No zero side Setback will be permitted on the lot side bordering a 
nonresidential use or a residential use not utilizing the zero side Setback
provision.  
7
5
d. Front and rear setbacks:
Lot Depth Minimum Front/Rear Setback Total of Setbacks
Up to 75 ft., inclusive 10 ft. each 20 ft.
From 75 ft. to 100 ft. 12 ft./13 ft. (or vice versa) 25 ft.
D. Open Space
a. Amount:  Within the designated Cluster Subdivision, 25% of the area must be 
dedicated as active and passive open space.
i. Of the total amount, at least 20% must be active open space.
b. Maintenance: Active and passive open space areas be improved, landscaped, 
and maintained in accordance with the Development Agreement.    
E. Illustrative Examples:
Exhibit C:
Project Applicability
8
6
As an example of how the proposed Code Amendment would be implemented, we will look at 
the Crossroads at Silver Creek proposal.  The applicant on this project is proposing a Master 
Planned Development and Rezone from Rural Residential (RR) to Neighborhood Mixed Use 
(NMU-1) at a site within Silver Creek Estates Unit I.  
The proposed development includes single-family homes; townhomes; multi-family units; 
neighborhood-scale commercial and retail spaces; trails, pathways, plazas, and sidewalks; 
transit stops; and improved vehicular access via a roundabout at Silver Creek Road and Division 
Street.  
Click below for detailed submittal materials from the applicant.  
Materials: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1VhNObDPtCkR48czfBWgTlNIoHn3f0fSa/view
9
Staff Report
 
 
DATE:
September 26, 2023
SUBMITTED BY:
Laura Kuhrmeyer, Community Development
ITEM TYPE:
Discussion
AGENDA SECTION:
4:30 P.M. Work Session
SUBJECT:
**Project #23-021. Work Session on the proposed
MPD/Rezone known as Crossroads at Silver Creek.
Legislative Review. Applicant: Tony Tyler, representing
Columbia Pacific.
Planners: Madlyn McDonough and Laura Kuhrmeyer
 
SUGGESTED ACTION:
ESTIMATED TIME:
30 minutes
INTRODUCTION:
BACKGROUND:
CONCLUSION:
  
 
 
SNYDERVILLE BASIN PLANNING COMMISSION AGENDA ITEM REPORT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENTS:
Crossroads at Silver Creek Work Session Report.pdf
10
 
1 
 
 
 
MEMORANDUM 
  
To:   Snyderville Basin Planning Commission   
From:   Madlyn McDonough and Laura Kuhrmeyer, County Planners 
Date of Meeting: September 26, 2023 
Type of Item:  Work Session – MPD/Rezone 
Process:  Legislative 
 
 
Project Description 
Project Number:  23-021 
Project Name:   Master Planned Development (MPD) and Rezone to NMU-1 Zone 
Crossroads at Silver Creek 
Final Authority:  Summit County Council 
 
Background 
Staff provided a draft of the previously discussed proposed Code Amendment to the NMU Zone 
(Project # 23-152) to Columbia Pacific, the Applicant for the subject MPD/Rezone application. 
Columbia Pacific provided feedback on two particular items within the proposed Code 
language: 
1. Front/Rear Setbacks – The Applicant would like to discuss reducing the front/rear 
Setback to 8 feet. 
2. Maximum Building Footprint – The Applicant would like to discuss the potential for a 
building footprint exemption of up to 500 square feet for garages. 
 
The Applicant will provide a brief presentation on how these two items would potentially 
impact the proposed MPD/Rezone and provide suggestions for potential changes to the 
language. 
 
 
11
Staff Report
 
 
DATE:
September 26, 2023
SUBMITTED BY:
Amir Caus, Planning
ITEM TYPE:
Action
AGENDA SECTION:
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
SUBJECT:
Project #23-125: Address: 3419 Olympic Parkway, Summit County, UT;
Parcels PP-63-A (254.40 acres) and PP-65-A (124.94 acres)
Public hearing and possible action regarding a Conditional Use Permit to
improve portions of the Utah Olympic Park hillside into two new ski runs;
Applicant: Jamie Kimball representing Utah Athletic Foundation; 
Senior Planner: Amir Caus, AICP
SUGGESTED ACTION:
ESTIMATED TIME:
30 min
INTRODUCTION:
BACKGROUND:
CONCLUSION:
  
 
 
SNYDERVILLE BASIN PLANNING COMMISSION AGENDA ITEM REPORT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENTS:
UOP Ski Runs Phase 3 CUP Staff Report.pdf
12
 
 
1 
UOP Ski Runs Phase 3 – September 26, 2023 
STAFF REPORT 
 
To:   Snyderville Basin Planning Commission   
From:   Amir Caus, County Planner 
Date of Meeting: September 26, 2023 
Type of Item:  Conditional Use Permit (CUP) - Public Hearing, Possible Action 
Process:  Administrative Review 
 
RECOMMENDATION:  Staff has reviewed the application for compliance with all standards in 
the Snyderville Basin Development Code and has found that it meets the minimum required for 
approval. Staff recommends that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission review the 
proposed Utah Olympic Park Ski Runs Phase 3 Conditional Use Permit, conduct a public hearing 
and approve the application pursuant to the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and 
Conditions of Approval found in this Staff Report.    
 
Project Description 
 
Project Name: Utah Olympic Park Ski Runs Phase 3 CUP 
Applicant(s):   Jamie Kimball, Utah Athletic Foundation 
Property Owner(s):  Utah Athletic Foundation                 
Location:   3419 Olympic Parkway, Summit County, UT  
Zone District:   Resort Center (RC) and Mountain Remote (MR) – Utah Olympic  
    Park Specially Planned Area 
Parcel Number and Size: PP-63-A (254.40 acres) and PP-65-A (124.94 acres) 
Type of Process:  Administrative 
Final Land Use Authority: Snyderville Basin Planning Commission  
 
Proposal 
 
The applicant is requesting to improve portions of the Utah Olympic Park hillside into two new 
ski runs. The Utah Olympic Park Ski Run Phase 3 area is split into the northern ski run at ~8 
acres and southern ski run at ~7 acres. The northern ski run (~8 acres) would serve as 
snowcat/emergency/maintenance access and easiest way down. The southern ski run (~7 
acres) would serve as a Ski Mountaineering training hill and community trail summer access. 
Most of the work performed for the ski run improvements will take place by grubbing the 
vegetation. 
 
The total cut generated on the northern ski run is ~11,500 cubic yards with ~4,000 cubic yards 
of fill. The remaining cut balance would be stockpiled on site for future maintenance. The 
13
2 
UOP Ski Runs Phase 3 – September 26, 2023 
improvements on the southern ski run will comprise of thinning of the undergrowth and dead 
timber to make the run skiable. The applicant has stated that; “Ideally, we can achieve this all 
by hand with minimal machine work except to move piles of brush around and potentially a bury 
a couple boulders.”  
 
Phase 3 of the proposed improvements will result in the removal of 3 pines and 80 aspens. The 
rest of the vegetation is generally Gambel oak, mahogany, and shrubs. All areas of disturbance 
will be required to be revegetated. 
 
 
Vicinity Map 
 
 
 
Background 
 
The Utah Olympic Park is located on slightly over 400 acres on the hillside west of S.R. 224 and 
was the site of the 2002 Olympic ski jumping, Nordic combined, bobsled, luge, and skeleton 
events.  Initial construction began on the site in 1991, and construction was completed by the 
fall of 2000.  Construction of the existing facilities and infrastructure was done through the 
State of Utah, and no zoning changes or development permits were sought from the County at 
the time.  Among the facilities that exist on the site include the bobsled/luge/skeleton track, 
Nordic jumps, freestyle aerial splash pool, Joe Quinney Sports Center, and Alf Engen Ski 
Museum.  Primary access to this site is off of S.R. 224 on Olympic Parkway.  An emergency 
access exists at the top end of the project through a locked gate that connects to Bear Hollow.   
 
14
3 
UOP Ski Runs Phase 3 – September 26, 2023 
In an effort to provide more revenue generating opportunities on the site, and to avoid 
depleting the endowment established to fund operation of the park, the applicant applied to 
rezone the Utah Olympic Park to Resort Center and to establish a Specially Planned Area (SPA) 
in order to create potential density and better reflect the current nature of the area.  The Utah 
Olympic Park SPA designation and rezone was approved by the County Council in 2012 and the 
Development Agreement was approved in 2013. The SPA consists of 67,230 sq. ft. of 
athlete/work force housing (112 units), a 40,000 sq. ft. sports medicine facility, an expansion to 
the existing day lodge, construction of additional office and athlete support space, and three 
residential development parcels, for a total of 295,700 sq. ft. 
 
According to the Utah Olympic Park Development Agreement Land Use & Zoning Chart, New Ski 
Runs and Ski Lifts are a Conditional Use.   
 
On May 14, 2019, the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission approved the Utah Olympic Park 
Ski Run and Ski Lift Phase 1 Conditional Use Permit, located between the Olympic Jumps and 
the Olympic Bobsled Track. The improvements included a ski run and a 1,247-foot-long ski lift 
to serve the run. 
 
On December 8, 2020, the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission approved the Utah Olympic 
Park Ski Run and Ski Lift Phase 2 Conditional Use Permit, located north of the Phase 1 
improvements. The improvements included ski runs on the western slope of the Utah Olympic 
Park and the addition of a 3,416-foot-long ski lift which includes 19 towers (including 
terminals).  
 
Analysis and Findings 
 
Section 10-3-5(B) of the Snyderville Basin Development Code states that no Conditional Use 
Permit shall be approved unless the applicant demonstrates that the following standards can be 
met:  
 
Standard 1: The use is in accordance with the General Plan.  
  
Analysis: Utah Olympic Park is one of the designated Snyderville Basin Neighborhood 
areas. According to the General Plan; The goal of this planning area is to ensure that 
training opportunities and support services are available and can be sustained for 
athletes, as well as ensuring the Park provides a unique opportunity and experience to 
the surrounding community, and the general public. New development should be located 
in the most appropriate areas on the site taking into consideration topography and 
views from the Kimball Junction area.  
 
The proposed ski run, and its location are part of the anticipated improvements to 
further the Utah Olympic Park training programs. COMPLIES 
 
Standard 2: The use conforms to all applicable provisions of this Title, including, but not limited 
to, any applicable provisions of this Section and Chapter 4 of the Snyderville Basin Development 
Code, the Snyderville Basin General Plan, and State and Federal regulations.  
15
4 
UOP Ski Runs Phase 3 – September 26, 2023 
 
Analysis: Staff review of the application indicates that it meets the minimum 
requirements for approval in the Snyderville Basin Development Code.   
 
Code Requirement   Analysis Finding 
1. Requirement All development permits comply with the Chapter 4 
provisions, standards, and policies. 
 
2. Environmental 
Criteria 
The use will not produce byproducts that would be harmful 
to the air, water or watershed quality of the Snyderville Basin. 
The cut and fill are mostly avoiding significant existing mature 
vegetation. All areas of disturbance will be required to be 
revegetated. 
COMPLIES 
3. Critical Lands The top terminal of the proposed lift is located on a ridgeline. 
Section 10-4-3(C) of the Snyderville Basin Development Code 
states; Ridgelines: Structures located on ridgelines as viewed 
from Interstate 80, SR-224, SR-248, and U.S.-40 shall be 
prohibited. Development shall be prohibited within one 
hundred (100) vertical feet of any ridgeline that is identified 
by the ridgeline overlay zone district, except for existing lots 
of records, previously entitled developments, and resort lifts 
and runs as provided for in this section. 
COMPLIES 
4. Open Space The proposed improvements will not impact open space 
requirements. 
COMPLIES 
5. Water and 
Water Supply 
Utah Olympic Park receives services from both Mountain 
Regional Water and Summit Water. Staff has received 
comments of support from both companies.  
COMPLIES 
6. Sanitary Sewer Not proposed. N/A 
7. Fire Protection Park City Fire District has stated they have no concerns with 
the request.  
COMPLIES 
8. Loading and 
Unloading 
Existing facilities to be used, which are adequate. COMPLIES 
9. Parking 
Requirements 
Existing parking to be used, which is adequate. COMPLIES 
10. Transportation 
Infrastructure 
and Access 
Design 
Existing internal and external infrastructure to be used, which 
is adequate. 
COMPLIES 
11. Public Utilities Required utilities available. COMPLIES 
12. Mail Delivery Not proposed. N/A 
13. Garbage 
Collection 
Not proposed. N/A 
14. Solid Waste 
and Recycling 
Not proposed. N/A 
15. Snow Removal 
and Storage 
The use is a winter sport use and does not require snow 
removal. 
N/A 
16. Police and 
Security 
Adequate access available.  COMPLIES 
17. Parks, Trails, 
and Trailheads 
While trails are anticipated, none are proposed or required at 
this time. Community wide trails are an Allowed use in the 
Snyderville Basin.  
N/A 
16
5 
UOP Ski Runs Phase 3 – September 26, 2023 
18. ADA Access Applicable accessibility will be required to be met as part of 
the Building Permit.  
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
19. Special Site 
Design 
Requirements 
All setbacks are being met. COMPLIES 
20. Architectural 
Regulations for 
All Structures 
Architectural regulations are not applicable to ski lifts. N/A 
21. Landscape 
Regulations 
All areas of disturbance will be required to be revegetated. COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
22. Lighting 
Regulations 
Lighting is not being proposed as part of Phase 3.  N/A 
23. Height 
Regulations 
This section applies to building height. N/A 
 
Standard 3: The use is not detrimental to public health, safety and welfare.  
 
Analysis: Snowmaking is not included as part of the proposal. The applicant has stated 
that they; “may push snow down or up from areas on Olympic Hopeful where we have 
already made snow, but mostly this will be a naturally covered run.” Section 5-3-12 of 
the Summit County Noise Ordinance specifically exempts any noise resulting from 
snowmaking activities at ski areas. 
 
Due to most of the work taking place in a confined area, allowed use and height, and 
onsite utilities, Staff does not anticipate any negative impacts. COMPLIES 
 
Standard 4: The use is appropriately located with respect to public facilities.  
   
Analysis: Adequate facilities are available. The use is a winter sports use and does not 
require any additional water and sewer. Should the need arise to increase capacity 
and/or intensity of the use; amendment to the Conditional Use would be required. 
COMPLIES  
 
Standard 5: The use is compatible with the existing neighborhood character and with the 
character and purpose provision of the applicable zoning district and will not adversely affect 
surrounding land uses.   
 
Analysis: The proposed use is in an existing winter sports neighborhood area and is 
compatible within the existing uses. The nearest residence outside of the Utah Olympic 
Park is approximately 0.5 miles away. COMPLIES 
 
Recommendation 
 
It is Staff’s finding that the project meets the applicable standards in the Snyderville Basin 
Development Code. Staff recommends that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission review 
and approve the Utah Olympic Park Ski Runs Phase 3 Conditional Use Permit according to the 
following Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Conditions of Approval:  
17
6 
UOP Ski Runs Phase 3 – September 26, 2023 
 
Findings of Fact: 
 
1. Utah Athletic Foundation is the owner of record of Parcel PP-63-A. 
2. PP-63-A (254.40 acres) and PP-65-A (124.94 acres) are located in the Resort Center (RC) 
Zone and Mountain Remote (MR) zones and are governed by the Utah Olympic Park 
Specially Planned Area and Development Agreement.  
3. The applicant is requesting to improve portions of the Utah Olympic Park hillside into 
two new ski runs as part of the Utah Olympic Park Ski Run Phase 3 Conditional Use 
Permit (CUP). 
4. The Utah Olympic Park Ski Run Phase 3 area is split into the northern ski run at ~8 acres 
and southern ski run at ~7 acres.  
5. The northern ski run (~8 acres) would serve as snowcat/emergency/maintenance access 
and easiest way down.  
6. The southern ski run (~7 acres) would serve as a Ski Mountaineering training hill and 
community trail summer access.  
7. Most of the work performed for the ski run improvements will take place by grubbing 
the vegetation.  
8. The total cut generated on the northern ski run is ~11,500 cubic yards with ~4,000 cubic 
yards of fill.  
9. The remaining cut balance would be stockpiled on site for future maintenance.  
10. The improvements on the southern ski run will comprise of thinning of the undergrowth 
and dead timber to make the run skiable.  
11. The applicant has stated that; “Ideally, we can achieve this all by hand with minimal 
machine work except to move piles of brush around and potentially a bury a couple 
boulders.”  
12. Phase 3 of the proposed improvements will result in the removal of 3 pines and 80 
aspens. The rest of the vegetation is generally Gambel oak, mahogany, and shrubs. All 
areas of disturbance will be required to be revegetated. 
13. Phase 3 of the proposed improvements will result in the removal of 3 pines and 80 
aspens. The rest of the vegetation is generally Gambel oak, mahogany, and shrubs. All 
areas of disturbance will be required to be revegetated. 
14. Utah Olympic Park is one of the designated Snyderville Basin Neighborhood areas. 
According to the General Plan; The goal of this planning area is to ensure that training 
opportunities and support services are available stockand can be sustained for athletes, 
as well as ensuring the Park provides a unique opportunity and experience to the 
surrounding community, and the general public. New development should be located in 
the most appropriate areas on the site taking into consideration topography and views 
from the Kimball Junction area.  
15. The proposed ski runs, and their location are part of the anticipated improvements to 
further the Utah Olympic Park training programs. 
16. According to the Utah Olympic Park Development Agreement Land Use & Zoning Chart, 
New Ski Runs and Ski Lifts are a Conditional Use.   
17. Snowmaking is not included as part of the proposal.  
 
 
18
7 
UOP Ski Runs Phase 3 – September 26, 2023 
18. The applicant has stated that they; “may push snow down or up from areas on Olympic 
Hopeful where we have already made snow, but mostly this will be a naturally covered 
run.” Section 5-3-12 of the Summit County Noise Ordinance specifically exempts any 
noise resulting from snowmaking activities at ski areas. 
19. Lighting is not proposed as part of Phase 3. 
20. Due to most of the work taking place in a confined area, allowed use and height, and 
onsite utilities, Staff does not anticipate any negative impacts.  
21. Adequate facilities are available.  
22. The use is a winter sports use and does not require any additional water and sewer.  
23. Should the need arise to increase capacity and/or intensity of the use; amendment to 
the Conditional Use would be required.  
24. The proposed use is in an existing winter sports neighborhood area and is compatible 
within the existing uses. 
25. The nearest residence outside of the Utah Olympic Park is approximately 0.5 miles 
away. 
26. Service providers have reviewed the proposed Conditional Use Permit for compliance 
with applicable standards.  
27. Staff has reviewed the proposed Conditional Use Permit for compliance with applicable 
Development Code and Development Agreement standards. 
 
Conclusions of Law: 
 
1. The proposed project, as conditioned, meets the requisite standards set forth in the 
Snyderville Basin Development Code, Section 10-3-5: Conditional Use Permit. 
2. The proposal complies with the applicable Chapter 4 Standards as outlined in the 
September 26, 2023 Staff Report. 
 
Conditions of Approval: 
 
1. This approval is limited to Utah Olympic Park Ski Runs Phase 3 improvements only. 
2. The location and design of the proposed ski runs shall be as per the drawings found in 
Exhibit A of this Staff Report. 
3. No outdoor storage is permitted. 
4. No modification to the approved Conditional Use Permit is permitted without the prior 
approval of the Summit County Community Development Department.  
5. The applicant shall apply for NOI and SWPPP permits through the Engineering 
Department prior to commencement of construction. 
6. The applicant shall provide a weed plan to the Engineering Department prior to 
commencement of construction. 
7. All disturbed area shall be revegetated with a native, drought tolerant seed mix. 
8. A bond shall be in placed to insure site restoration/revegetation of the disturbed areas. 
This may be allowed to be as part of a Development Improvement Agreement. 
9. All necessary permits must be obtained, and fees be paid prior to the commencement of 
any construction activity, including but not limited to the Summit County Engineering 
and the Summit County Building Departments. 
10. All other service provider requirements shall be met. 
 
19
8 
UOP Ski Runs Phase 3 – September 26, 2023 
 
Public Notice, Meetings and Comments 
  
This item was publicly noticed as a public hearing with possible action by the Snyderville Basin 
Planning Commission.  Notice of the public hearing was published in The Park Record. Courtesy 
postcards were mailed to all property owners within 1,000 feet of the subject Parcel. 
 
As of the date of this report no public comments have been received.  
 
Attachments 
  
 Exhibit A – Proposal 
 
 
20
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE PROGRESSION OF TRAINING & COMPETITION FACILITIES IN UTAH FOR SKIING & 
SNOWBOARDING ATHLETES AT EVERY AGE & ABILITY LEVEL 
 
ENHANCING A VIBRANT U.S. OLYMPIC TRAINING SITE 
 
 
 
 
THIS CUP APPLICATION IS FOR PHASE 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A.1
21
 
 
 
 
Mountain Expansion Recap 
 
Our last CUP application, Phase 2, outlined 
the history of our Mountain Expansion 
project and included the recap of 
completed Phase 1, details of Phase 2, and 
summary of future improvements 
contemplated in our master plan.  With 
the approval of Phase 2 in early 2022 we 
launched into construction completing 25 
acres of ski terrain between two ski runs, 
installing a new detachable quad chair lift, 
electrical infrastructure, snowmaking 
system including 15 snowguns and 
pumpstation culminating in the grand 
opening of the Spence F. Eccles Olympic 
Mountain Center in March of 2023.  We 
are currently under construction with the 
final elements of Phase 2 looking to 
complete the lighting installation and finish 
some clean up items on the snowmaking 
system to finish out Phase 2 by the end of 
September 2023.    
The feedback from our athletes and 
coaches has been that we have truly 
delivered a game changing environment 
for them to train and grow in and are 
eager to see it reach its full potential this 
season. 
One thing that became apparent in the 
short opening season which included our heaviest snowfall in history, was that we could not maintain the 
slopes as efficiently as necessary and that we needed to be able to do so in all conditions.  This led us to 
moving up Phase 3 in the overall buildout process of our Mountain Expansion project, the need to add a new  
access route for staff and equipment.  
 
 
 
o Chairlift 
§ Type – Detachable Quad 
§ Vertical Rise – 1,220 feet 
§ Length – 3,300 feet  
§ Capacity – 1,800 skiers/hour 
o Terrain Elements 
§ Total Buildout Number of Runs – 2 
§ Total Buildout Area – 25 acres 
§ Max. Vertical Drop – 1,220 feet 
o Snowmaking System 
§ 6000 ft of water line 
§ 15 Tower Fan Snowguns 
§ 2M gal Snowmaking Pond 
§ 1000 gpm Pumpstation 
o Trail Lighting 
§ Total Area Lighted Terrain – 25 acres 
§ 62 Wooden Light Poles 
§ 103 Light Fixtures 
 
EXHIBIT A.2
22
 
 
 
 
Phase 3 – Lower Mountain Bypass and Ski Mountaineering Runs 
 
This phase includes adding the northern most ski run on the master plan as the access path for our snowcat 
and an emergency egress route for users or what is known as the “easiest way down” at other ski areas.  This 
ski run will consist of 8 acres of largely naturally clear terrain on the top section with more extensive grubbing 
and grading on the lower half to create the correct slope for skiers, snowboarders, snowcats and other 
equipment to navigate the run.   This ski run would not include snowmaking equipment or lights as the earlier 
phases have. 
 
With the shallower pitch this run allows the upper ridge to be used by a wider set of participants and bypass of 
the steep sections for those less skilled users increasing the effectiveness for our user groups. This new trail 
also provides a safe egress for Ski Patrol responding to emergencies that need to extract patients from the 
mountain, as well as a pathway for staff moving equipment and material up the hill for events, and other 
athletes that need an easier way down due to injury or equipment malfunction.  Finally, the new run will also 
provide safe access to the top of the mountain in the wintertime for snowmobiles and snowcats as the two 
existing ski runs are too steep to climb up in any soft snow conditions making them challenging to properly 
maintain for the participants that train on them.    
 
The other area of development would be on the southern side of the existing chairlift consisting of an uphill 
pathway and a downhill trail for our Ski Mountaineering (Ski Mo) athletes to train in a more realistic 
competitive environment for their discipline. This area, while it consists of 7 acres of terrain, will only require 
some thinning in the pine stand of trees and clearing of gamble oak in locations.  We will not be grading this 
area and instead using the natural topography as it exists, and any visual impact will be minimal.   Ski Mo has 
recently been announced as an Olympic Sport for the 2026 Milan Cortina Olympic Winter Games. Park City Ski 
and Snowboard Team has reported explosive growth in their youth Ski Mo program in recent years. The run 
will provide a safe and reliable training environment for local Ski Mo programs. Another benefit of this 
uphill/downhill area is the ability to invite the community to use these trails similar to how we provide 
mountain bike trail access across our property in the summertime.  It will provide a safe area for the members 
of our community who enjoy the climb up as much as the ski down without impacting our other user groups 
or interacting with grooming equipment that will be maintaining the other ski runs. 
 
We are currently planning to begin and complete construction of this phase this fall for use in the winter of 
2023/24. 
  
EXHIBIT A.3
23
UTAH OLYMPIC PARK - WEST PEAK
PHASE II - MOUNTAIN EXPANSION
SNOW CAT GRADING PERMIT
VICINITY MAP
CIVIL ENGINEER
SITE LOCATION
UTAH OLYMPIC PARK - WEST PEAK
PHASE II - MOUNTAIN EXPANSION
SNOW CAT GRADING PERMIT
GENERAL NOTES
SHEET INDEX
1. EXISTING CONDITIONS & TOPOGRAPHY
2. OVERALL SITE PLAN
3. GRADING PLAN
4. CMP/SWPPP
08 10 23
EXHIBIT A.4
24
231008
EXHIBIT A.5
25
08 10 23
EXHIBIT A.6
26
SNOWCAT ACCESS
PATH PROFILE
SCALE:1":250'
SNOWCAT ACCESS PATH PLAN
1:1 CUT AND 1.5:1 FILL SLOPES
SCALE: 1":75'
BENCH CROSS SECTION
SCALE:1":10'
231008
EXHIBIT A.7
27
231008
I
PROJECT AREA TOTALS:
 - LOWER RIDGE RUN TOTAL AREA = 6.5 ACRES (INCLUDING SNOWCAT ACCESS)
 - SNOWCAT ACCESS TOTAL DISTURBED AREA = 2.3 ACRES 
 - SKI MOUNTAINEERING TRAILS TOTAL AREA = 9 ACRES (GLADED ONLY, SAVE AND PROTECT MATURE TREES)
LANDSCAPE NOTES:
1. REMOVE LARGE VEGETATION (TREES & LARGE BUSHES) WITHIN AREAS OF NEW SKI-RUNS. SAVE & PROTECT GRASSES 
& SMALL BUSH VEGETATION WHEN POSSIBLE.
2. PROVIDE MINOR GRADING FOR NEW SKI-RUNS AS NECESSARY. RE-VEGETATE DISTURBED AREA WITH TOPSOIL & UTAH 
OLYMPIC PARK APPROVED NATIVE GRASS & WILDFLOWER SEED MIX.
3. INSTALL WATER BARS, 12" DEEP, 250ft ON-CENTER WITHIN NEW SKI-RUNS.  PROMOTE STORM WATER RUNOFF TO 
EXISTING VEGETATED AREAS.
4. PROVIDE ONSITE DETENTION WITH WATER BARS, LANDSCAPE BASINS.
 
EXHIBIT A.8
28