1.
Public input items not on the agenda or pending applications.
2.
Public hearing and possible action regarding a Conditional Use Permit for a Childcare Center
located at 700 Bitner Road; Parcel PP-84-A-2-A (3.5 acres).  Applicant: Leanne Smock.
Owner: Lincoln Station II LLC.  Administrative review. Project # 24-042.
Madlyn McDonough, County Planner.
 
3.
"This item has been continued from March 26, 2024, and will be continued to May 28,
2024".
 Public Hearing, possible recommendation for a Low Impact Permit for a Home Based
Business, Class 2, located at 710 Highland Drive. Applicant, Duilio Humberto Fragapane,
Administrative Review. Project #23-111.
Jennifer Strader, Senior Planner.
4.
Approval of minutes; April 9, 2024.
1.
Discussion regarding what was learned during the Our Summit Visioning Process and an
update to the Snyderville Basin General Plan. 
County Planners: Jennifer Strader, Jennifer Leslie, Amir Caus, Madlyn McDonough.  
AGENDA 
SNYDERVILLE BASIN PLANNING COMMISSION 
Tuesday, April 23, 2024
NOTICE is hereby given that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission will meet
electronically, via Zoom, and at the anchor location of
Sheldon Richins Building,  Auditorium
1885 West Ute Blvd.
Park City, UT 84098
(All times listed are general in nature, and are subject to change by the Board Chair)
 
You may attend in person or
 
Join Zoom webinar:
https://summitcountyut.zoom.us/j/98189226475  
OR
To listen by phone only: Dial 1-669-900-9128 or 1-253-215-8782, Webinar ID: 981 8922 6475 
 
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
 
 
24.042_Staff Report_FINAL_ALL.pdf
 
 
Draft SBPC Minutes 04.09.24.pdf
Work Session
 
SBPC Staff Report_4.23.24.pdf
Commission Items
1
Director Items
Adjourn
To view staff reports available at the end of the Friday before the meeting please visit
www.summitcounty.org.
 
Individuals needing special accommodations pursuant to the Americans with Disabilities Act regarding this meeting may
contact Vicki Geary, Summit County Community Development Department at (435)336-3123.
2
AGENDA ITEM NO. 1
Staff Report
 
 
DATE:
April 23, 2024
SUBMITTED BY:
Vicki Geary, Planning
ITEM TYPE:
Discussion
AGENDA SECTION:
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
SUBJECT:
Public input items not on the agenda or pending applications.
SUGGESTED ACTION:
ESTIMATED TIME:
INTRODUCTION:
BACKGROUND:
CONCLUSION:
 
 
 
SNYDERVILLE BASIN PLANNING COMMISSION AGENDA ITEM REPORT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENTS:
3
AGENDA ITEM NO. 2
Staff Report
 
 
DATE:
April 23, 2024
SUBMITTED BY:
Madlyn McDonough, Community Development
ITEM TYPE:
Action
AGENDA SECTION:
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
SUBJECT:
Public hearing and possible action regarding a Conditional Use
Permit for a Childcare Center located at 700 Bitner Road; Parcel PP-
84-A-2-A (3.5 acres).  Applicant: Leanne Smock. Owner: Lincoln
Station II LLC.  Administrative review. Project # 24-042.
Madlyn McDonough, County Planner.
 
SUGGESTED ACTION:
ESTIMATED TIME:
INTRODUCTION:
BACKGROUND:
CONCLUSION:
 
 
 
SNYDERVILLE BASIN PLANNING COMMISSION AGENDA ITEM REPORT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENTS:
24.042_Staff Report_FINAL_ALL.pdf
4
 
 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
 
 
 
To:   Snyderville Basin Planning Commission   
From:   Madlyn McDonough, County Planner 
Date of Meeting: April 23, 2024 
Type of Item:  Conditional Use Permit: Public Hearing, Possible Action 
Process:  Administrative Review 
 
RECOMMENDATION:  Staff recommends that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission 
review the proposed Childcare Center, conduct a public hearing, and approve the Conditional 
Use Permit per the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Conditions of Approval found in 
this staff report.   
 
Project Description 
 
Project Name:   Mountain Sprouts Daycare 
Applicant(s):   Leanne Smock  
Property Owner(s):  Lincoln Station II LLC 
Location:   700 Bitner Road  
Zone District:   Rural Residential 
Parcel Number and Size: PP-84-A-2-A; 3.5 acres 
Type of Process:  Administrative 
Final Land Use Authority: Snyderville Basin Planning Commission  
  
Proposal 
 
The applicant is requesting approval of a Conditional Use Permit for childcare center within an 
existing structure located at 700 Bitner Road. The applicant proposes a childcare center that 
would provide educational and recreational opportunities to a maximum of 50 children 
between the ages of 2 months and 5 years old. No expansion of the existing building is 
proposed, and all necessary parking currently exists on the site.  
 
 
 
 
 
5
2 
 
Vicinity Map 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
3 
 
Background 
 
The applicant, Leanne Smock, is seeking approval for a childcare center at 700 Bitner Road. The 
property is zoned Rural Residential (RR). Section 10-2-10 of the Snyderville Basin Development 
Code states that Childcare Centers with more than 16 children require a Conditional Use Permit 
in the Rural Residential Zone.   
 
The Development Code defines a Childcare Center as: 
 
“CHILDCARE CENTER: Any place operated by a person, society, agency, corporation, 
institution, or any other group that is licensed by the state wherein are received nine (9) 
or more children under seventeen (17) years of age who are not related to such person 
and whose parents or guardians are not residents in the same house and with such 
person, society, agency, corporation, or institution responsible for the control and care 
of children enrolled therein.” 
 
The applicant is proposing to occupy an existing building.  The applicant is proposing interior 
renovations to maximize the existing footprint.  The only exterior changes will be a new sign 
and the addition of required fencing around the outdoor play space.  
 
Operation details include: 
 
• Hours of operation are Monday through Friday between 8:30am and 5:30pm, except for 
major holidays, predesignated professional development days, and a designated winter 
break. 
• A maximum of 50 children will be on site at any given time. 
• Children between the ages 2 months to 5 years will be present. 
• There will be eleven staff members on site.  
• On-site activities will be conducted indoors, in specialized classrooms catering to age 
groups, and outdoors, within the designated fenced area. The outdoor fenced area is 
approximately 2,200 square feet and equipped with dual entry gates for enhanced 
security and safety.   
• The applicant will utilize the existing looped parking lot design to facilitate drop off and 
pick up.   
• There are 18 parking spaces including one ADA accessible space. 
• Access to the use will come from Bitner Road. 
 
The proposal was reviewed by all affiliated service providers. All issues raised by service 
providers have been addressed either by conditions of approval in this report or by 
amendments to the proposed plan.  
 
 
 
7
4 
 
Analysis and Findings 
 
The Planning Commission may approve, approve with conditions, or deny a Conditional Use 
Permit based upon written Findings of Fact according to each of the following standards. It is 
the responsibility of the applicant to provide written and graphic evidence demonstrating 
compliance. 
  
Standard 1: The use is in accordance with the General Plan. COMPLIES 
  
Analysis: The Snyderville Basin General Plan states the following: 
GOAL: Promote sustainable Land Use Planning Principles that preserve Critical 
Lands, maintain neighborhood character, protect the economic base, prevent 
sprawl, and provide efficient delivery of services.   
Policy 2.21: Encourage locally based and neighborhood commercial businesses.   
 
Mountain Sprouts, the proposed childcare center, provides a service that has repeatedly 
been stated as a priority by the residents of Summit County - childcare.  Staff finds that 
the proposed use will allow needed services to the residents of the County.  
 
Standard 2: The use conforms to all applicable provisions of this Title, including, but not limited 
to, any applicable provisions of this Section and Chapter 4 of this Title, the General Plan, and 
State and Federal regulations. COMPLIES  
 
Analysis: Staff review of the application indicates that it meets the minimum 
requirements for approval in the Snyderville Basin Development Code.   
 
Code Requirement   Analysis Finding 
1. Environmental 
Criteria 
This application was reviewed by 
Mountain Regional Water and the Summit 
County Health Department for compliance 
with air and water quality standards.  
COMPLIES 
2. Critical Areas No development is occurring in an area 
defined as “critical land” by the 
Development Code. The use does not 
encroach into any steep slopes or 
wetlands.   
COMPLIES 
3. Open Space There is no minimum open space 
requirement for this project.  
COMPLIES 
4. Water and Water 
Supply 
The project was reviewed by Mountain 
Regional representatives. Comments 
indicate that there is sufficient water for 
the site.  
COMPLIES 
8
5 
 
5. Sanitary Sewer According to SBWRD, additional impact 
fees will likely be required due to the 
change in use, but those will be assessed 
at the time that a building permit is 
needed. 
COMPLIES, as 
conditioned 
6. Fire Protection Review from the Fire District indicates that 
the proposal meets their minimum 
requirements.  
COMPLIES 
7. Loading and 
Unloading 
Drop off and pick up will take place fully on 
site utilizing the existing looped driveway 
design.   
COMPLIES 
8. Parking 
Requirements 
There are 18 parking spaces including 1 
ADA compliant space. 
COMPLIES 
9. Transportation 
Infrastructure and 
Access Design 
No concerns raised.  COMPLIES 
10. Public Utilities All necessary public utilities are available 
on site.  
COMPLIES 
11. Mail Delivery Mail delivery will remain as currently 
provided.  
COMPLIES 
12. Solid Waste and 
Recycling 
Garbage collection will remain as currently 
provided.  
COMPLIES, as 
conditioned 
13. Snow Removal and 
Storage 
Snow storage will remain on site. Previous 
use of the property indicates that there is 
sufficient snow storage on site. 
COMPLIES 
14. Police and Security No concerns raised.   COMPLIES 
15. Parks, Trails, and 
Trailheads 
The project was sent to the Snyderville 
Basin Recreation District for review. Staff 
received no comments. 
COMPLIES 
16. ADA Access Prior to the issuance of a building permit, 
the project will be reviewed by 
representatives from the building 
Department for compliance with all ADA 
requirements.   
COMPLIES 
17. Special Site Design 
Requirements 
The only change to the exterior is the 
addition of a 4-foot, black, chain-linked 
fence surrounding the play area.  
COMPLIES 
18. Architectural 
Regulations for All 
Structures 
Not applicable  COMPLIES 
19. Landscape 
Regulations 
No changes to existing landscaping are 
proposed.  
COMPLIES 
9
6 
 
20. Lighting 
Regulations 
All proposed lighting shall comply with the 
standards in the Development Code. Prior 
to the issue of a building permit, staff will 
review the existing lighting for compliance 
with the standards in the Code.  
COMPLIES, as 
conditioned 
21. Height Regulations Not applicable   COMPLIES 
 
Standard 3: The use is not detrimental to public health, safety, and welfare. COMPLIES 
 
Analysis: Staff can find no evidence that the proposed Childcare Center will have a 
negative impact on the general health, safety, and welfare of the people of Summit 
County. Potential impacts on residents immediately adjacent to the property have been 
mitigated through conditions of approval in this staff report. The use is compliant with 
the goals and policies of the General Plan.  
 
Standard 4: The use is appropriately located with respect to public facilities. COMPLIES 
   
Analysis: All necessary public facilities are available on site, including water, septic, and 
roads. Parking, internal circulation, and access have been reviewed by the Summit 
County Engineering Department and found to be adequate.  
 
Standard 5: The use is compatible with the existing neighborhood character and with the 
character and purpose provision of the applicable zoning district and will not adversely affect 
surrounding land uses.  COMPLIES 
 
Analysis: A determination of compatibility with the neighborhood was made when the 
use was allowed in the zone. To mitigate impacts, staff has included conditions of 
approval requiring the applicant meet all applicable service provider comments.   
 
Special Standards For Conditional Uses: In addition to the standards established in this section 
and in chapter 4 of this title for particular uses, all conditional uses within a zoning district shall 
conform to the following standards and criteria:  
1. The commission may require the applicant or the owner of the property subject to 
an application for development approval for a conditional use permit to establish an 
escrow account, post a bond or provide other financial security, in such form and 
sum as the commission shall determine, with sufficient surety running to the county 
to offset any extraordinary costs or expenses associated with the following: a) 
construction of any highways, roads, water or sewer mains, drainage facilities, or 
other public infrastructure; b) landscaping; c) compliance with the requirements of 
this section, any applicable special requirements set forth in this section and chapter 
4 of this title, and the conditions attached to the development permit; and d) any 
expense requirements set forth in this section and chapter 4 of this title, and the 
conditions attached to the development permit, including the provision of facilities 
10
7 
 
or structures, maintenance or construction work, or the execution or fulfillment of 
conditions of a continuing nature.  COMPLIES 
 
Analysis: The applicant proposes to use an existing structure located at 700 Bitner 
Road. The existing access from Bitner Road will remain.   
 
2. The proposed development shall not cause a reduction in the adopted level of 
service for any public facility. COMPLIES 
 
Analysis:  There is no evidence to suggest that the proposed use will cause a 
reduction in the adopted level of service for any public facilities.  
 
3. Lighting shall not be directed or reflected upon adjoining land and shall meet all 
other related requirements of section 10-4-21 of this title with respect to exterior 
lighting. COMPLIES, as conditioned 
 
Analysis:  No additional lighting is proposed. Existing lighting is not directed at or 
reflecting on adjoining land.  
 
4. The natural topography, soils, critical areas, watercourses and vegetation shall be 
preserved and used, where possible, through careful location and design of 
circulation ways, buildings and other structures, parking areas, recreation areas, 
open space, utilities and drainage facilities.  COMPLIES 
 
Analysis:  The applicant is not proposing any new development on the site.  
 
5. All roads shall provide free movement for safe and efficient use within the 
development. Local roads shall provide access to the site in a manner that 
discourages unsafe and congested conditions, and which provides convenient 
accessibility to parking areas, arterial and collector roads that shall be free of 
backing movement from adjoining parking areas and free from congestion and 
public safety problems. COMPLIES 
 
Analysis: The application has been reviewed by the Engineering Department and 
there is no evidence to suggest that the intended use will adversely impact local 
roads. Loading and unloading will take place on site. 
 
6. Vehicular and pedestrian passageways shall be separated from public rights of way. 
Where appropriate, a system of walkways and bicycle paths connecting buildings, 
open spaces, recreation areas, public facilities, and parking areas shall be provided 
and appropriately lighted for night use.  COMPLIES 
 
Analysis:  The private drive will be utilized for loading and unloading. 
 
11
8 
 
7. Buildings and other structures shall provide a human scale consistent with adjacent 
development and appropriate to residential uses in the RR, HS, MR, CC, SC, and NC 
zoning districts, and consistent with adjacent conforming development in the zoning 
districts. The massing, scale and architectural design shall be consistent with the 
design guidelines established in section 10-4-19 of this title. COMPLIES 
 
Analysis: The applicant is not proposing any changes that would impact human 
scale.  
 
8. The volume rate of post development runoff shall not exceed predevelopment 
runoff. Runoff calculations shall be submitted with the application for site plan 
approval and shall be based upon: a) the 25-year, twenty four (24) hour design 
storm event; b) a fully developed contributing drainage area; c) the specific location 
of the proposed development; d) the proposed land use and use density or intensity; 
and e) the specific location and amount of impervious surfaces, in square feet. 
COMPLIES 
 
Analysis:  The applicant is not proposing any changes that would impact runoff. 
 
9. The site shall be landscaped in accordance with the requirements of section 10-4-
20 of this title. COMPLIES 
 
Analysis: According to section 10-4-20, existing developments are subject to the 
requirements of this section only if the applicant proposes to increase the existing 
square footage of the footprint or the parking requirement by 20% or more.  The 
applicant is not proposing an increase to square footage or parking. 
 
 
10-8-7: CHILD DAYCARE: 
A. State License Required: An establishment to be used for child daycare activities shall be 
licensed or registered by the department of human services of the state. Such 
establishment shall meet all minimum standards promulgated by the department of 
human services.  COMPLIES, as conditioned 
 
Analysis:  The applicant is required to meet all minimum standards promulgated by the 
department of human services in order to receive and maintain a license.  This permit is 
conditioned such that the operator must provide proof of compliance prior to the start 
of operations.  
 
B. Outdoor Play Area; Fencing: The outdoor play areas of a daycare center shall be 
enclosed with a fence which shall be built and maintained with a minimum height of 
four feet (4'). A six foot (6') high solid fence shall be built and maintained along play 
areas that are adjacent to property in a residential zoning district.  COMPLIES 
 
12
9 
 
Analysis: The Community Development Director has made a determination that the 
location of the outdoor play area is not “adjacent” to a property in a residential district 
so therefore the proposed 4-foot high, chain link fence is satisfactory. The proposed play 
area is approximately 150 feet away from the side property line. 
 
C. Loading And Unloading: Loading and unloading of children from vehicles shall only be 
permitted on the property, approved parking area, or directly in front of the 
establishment. COMPLIES 
 
Analysis: Loading and unloading of children is proposed to be on site utilizing the 
existing looped driveway design for ease of movement.   
 
 
Recommendation 
 
Staff recommends that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission review the proposed 
Childcare Center, conduct a public hearing, and approve the Conditional Use Permit per the 
Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Conditions of Approval found in this staff report.     
 
Findings of Fact: 
1. The applicant, Leanne Smock, is seeking approval of Childcare Center located at 700 
Bitner Road.  
2. The property is zoned Rural Residential (RR).   
3. The property contains 3.5 acres. 
4. Section 10-2-10 of the Development Code states that Childcare Centers with more than 
16 children in the RR zone require a Conditional Use Permit.   
5. There is an existing building located on the subject property. 
6. No expansion of the existing building is proposed. 
7. The applicant is proposing interior renovations to maximize the existing footprint. 
8. The only exterior changes will be a new sign and the required fencing around the 
outdoor play space. 
9. There are 18 parking spaces, including one ADA space. 
10. Access to the site is from Bitner Road. 
11. The hours of operation are Monday through Friday from 8:30am to 5:30pm, except for 
major holidays, predesignated professional development days, and a designated winter 
break. 
12. Children between the ages 2 months to 5 years will be present. 
13. The applicant proposes a maximum of 50 children on site at any given time. 
14. There will be eleven staff members on site.  
15.  On-site activities will be conducted indoors, in specialized classrooms catering to age 
groups, and outdoors, within the designated fenced area. The outdoor fenced area is 
approximately 2,200 square feet and equipped with dual entry gates for enhanced 
security and safety.   
16. The existing looped parking design will be used for drop off and pick up.   
13
10 
 
17. Staff will park in a designated area.   
18. No development is occurring in an area defined as “critical land” by the Development 
Code. 
19. The Snyderville Basin General Plan states the following, “GOAL: Promote sustainable 
Land Use Planning Principles that preserve Critical Lands, maintain neighborhood 
character, protect the economic base, prevent sprawl, and provide efficient delivery of 
services.”  Additionally, Policy 2.21 states “Encourage locally based and neighborhood 
commercial businesses.”  
20. This application was reviewed by Mountain Regional Water and the Summit County 
Health Department for compliance with air and water quality standards. 
21. Information from the water provider stated that there is enough water available to 
accommodate the use. 
22. There is no minimum open space requirement for this project. 
23. Existing sewer can accommodate the use per SBWRD, but there will likely be additional 
impact fees (assessed at time of building permit).   
24. Review from the Fire District indicates that the proposal meets their minimum 
requirements. 
25. Mail delivery will remain as currently provided. 
26. The project was reviewed by the Snyderville Basin Recreation District for review. No 
comments were received.   
27. Prior to the issuance of a building permit, the project will be reviewed by 
representatives from the Building Department for compliance with all ADA 
requirements.   
28. Snow storage will remain on site. Previous use of the property indicates that there is 
sufficient snow storage on site. 
29. The proposed fence around the outdoor area is four feet high. 
30. The applicant will provide proof of compliance with state licensure requirements prior 
to the commencement of business operation. This permit is conditioned as such. 
 
Conclusions of Law: 
1. The use is in accordance with the general plan. 
2. The use conforms to all applicable provisions of this title, including, but not limited to, 
any applicable provisions of this section and chapter 4 of this title, the general plan, and 
state and federal regulations. 
3. The use is not detrimental to public health, safety and welfare. 
4. The use is appropriately located with respect to public facilities. 
5. The use is compatible with the existing neighborhood character and with the character 
and purpose provision of the applicable zoning district, and will not adversely affect 
surrounding land uses.  
 
Conditions of Approval: 
1. The property will have a maximum of 50 children on site at any given time.  
2. All necessary planning department and building permits must be obtained, and fees 
shall be paid, prior to the commencement of any construction activity.  
14
11 
3. The applicant will comply with all service provider requirements.
4. The applicant must demonstrate compliance with the development code requirement
for a fully enclosed structure for garbage and recycling prior to Building Department
final approval.
5. Prior to beginning business, the operator must demonstrate compliance with the state
licensure and registration requirements.
6. All exterior lighting must comply with section 10-4-21 of the Snyderville Basin
Development Code.  No lighting may be directed at or reflecting on adjacent property.
7. This Conditional Use Permit does not approve a specific sign or modification of existing
sign. A separate sign permit is required prior to the start of business.
Attachments 
Exhibit A – Proposal  
Exhibit B – Applicant Narrative 
15
Exhibit A: Satellite view
Legend:
Yellow: traffic pattern
Orange: employee parking
Red: fenced in play area
Blue: trash, loading and unloading
Green: path to play area
Exhibit B: Front entrance. Center of parking area
Exhibit C: Loop driveway angle #1
Exhibit A 
16
Exhibit D: Loop angle #2
Exhibit E: Playground path #1, loading and unloading zone, trash can area
17
Exhibit F: Employee parking area
Exhibit G: Playground path and employee parking
18
Exhibit H: Main parking lot/ pick up drop off area
Exhibit I: Proposed play ground area, fenced in the back side of the building. Coming off building
22’ and along the building length 100’ fencing used: 4’ tall Black chain link with 2 access gates
on the 22’ sides.
19
20
Exhibit D: Loop angle #2
Exhibit E: Playground path #1, loading and unloading zone, trash can area
21
Exhibit F: Employee parking area
Exhibit G: Playground path and employee parking
22
Exhibit H: Main parking lot/ pick up drop off area
Exhibit I: Proposed play ground area, fenced in the back side of the building. Coming off building
22’ and along the building length 100’ fencing used: 4’ tall Black chain link with 2 access gates
on the 22’ sides.
23
24
Business Description
For obtaining necessary permits through the county for our childcare facility, the project
description is as follows:
Our forthcoming childcare facility, situated within the county's jurisdiction, is committed to
establishing a secure, nurturing, and educational environment tailored for children ranging from
2 months to 5 years old. The facility is designed to support a maximum capacity of
approximately 50 children, ensuring a conducive child-to-staff ratio that adheres strictly to the
licensing standards set by the county and state.
Our operational framework includes a robust team of 11 employees, consisting of one director,
one assistant director, eight dedicated teachers, and one versatile floating teacher. This staffing
model is meticulously designed to provide high-quality care and education, fostering a safe and
stimulating atmosphere for the children under our care.
Hours of Operation: The facility operates from Monday to Friday, between the hours of 8:30 AM
and 5:30 PM. Recognizing the importance of work-life balance for our staff and the families we
serve, we observe closure on all major holidays, as well as a designated winter break from
December 23 to January 2. Additionally, we allocate four professional development days
annually, distributed quarterly, to ensure our staff remains at the forefront of childcare education
practices.
Infrastructure and Safety: Our physical infrastructure includes specialized classrooms catering
to various age groups: infants (2 months to 1 year), 1-year-olds, 2-year-olds, and 3 to
5-year-olds. Each classroom is designed following the stringent safety and educational
guidelines required by the county. The facility boasts a 2,200 square foot fenced playground,
equipped with a 4-foot fence and dual entry gates for enhanced security and safety. The
playground is strategically located to offer a safe outdoor learning and play environment.
Transportation and Logistics: Acknowledging the importance of a seamless drop-off and pick-up
experience, our facility features a looped parking lot design. This arrangement facilitates a
convenient and efficient process for parents to drive through, sign their child in at our front desk,
and exit the premises without delay.
Nutrition and Meals: While our facility does not provide meal preparation services, we require
parents to pack nutritious breakfasts, lunches, and snacks for their children, adhering to healthy
dietary practices.
Snow Removal and Landscaping: The upkeep of the facility's exterior, including snow removal
and landscaping, is contracted to a professional company. This ensures that access to the
facility remains clear and safe throughout the year, regardless of weather conditions.
Exhibit B
25
Inconclusion, our childcarefacilityaimstomeet andexceedthecounty'sstandardsforoperation, safety, andeducational excellence. Wearecommittedtoprovidingahigh-qualityearlychildhoodeducationexperience, andweseekthecounty'ssupport inobtainingthenecessarypermitstobringthisvisiontolife.
26
AGENDA ITEM NO. 3
Staff Report
 
 
DATE:
April 23, 2024
SUBMITTED BY:
Vicki Geary, Planning
ITEM TYPE:
Discussion
AGENDA SECTION:
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
SUBJECT:
"This item has been continued from March 26, 2024, and will be
continued to May 28, 2024".
 Public Hearing, possible
recommendation for a Low Impact Permit for a Home Based
Business, Class 2, located at 710 Highland Drive. Applicant, Duilio
Humberto Fragapane, Administrative Review. Project #23-111.
Jennifer Strader, Senior Planner.
SUGGESTED ACTION:
ESTIMATED TIME:
INTRODUCTION:
BACKGROUND:
CONCLUSION:
 
 
 
SNYDERVILLE BASIN PLANNING COMMISSION AGENDA ITEM REPORT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENTS:
27
AGENDA ITEM NO. 4
Staff Report
 
 
DATE:
April 23, 2024
SUBMITTED BY:
Vicki Geary, Planning
ITEM TYPE:
Approval
AGENDA SECTION:
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
SUBJECT:
Approval of minutes; April 9, 2024.
SUGGESTED ACTION:
ESTIMATED TIME:
INTRODUCTION:
BACKGROUND:
CONCLUSION:
 
 
 
SNYDERVILLE BASIN PLANNING COMMISSION AGENDA ITEM REPORT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENTS:
Draft SBPC Minutes 04.09.24.pdf
28
MINUTES
SUMMIT COUNTY
Snyderville Basin Planning Commission Meeting
SHELDON RICHINS BUILDING
1885 WEST UTE BOULEVARD, PARK CITY, UT, 84098
TUESDAY, APRIL 9, 2024
Meeting also conducted via Zoom.
**AMENDED**
Tyann Mooney
Makena Hawley
Bruce Carmichael
Christopher Conabee
Thomas Cooke
DJ Hubler
Matthew Nagie
Sid Ostergaard
Craig Elliott
Justin Keys
Amir Caus
Doug Clyde
Rick Nemeroff
Pat Putt
Amy Price
Brian Craven
DRAFT
Work Session (4:32 P.M.)
1) Work Session (pre-application) regarding a Master Planned
Development for Outlets Park City, an 18-building mixed use
redevelopment project located at 6699 N Landmark Dr (Parcel FSE-
1), Kimball Junction, Summit County, UT.  The applicant is
proposing to Rezone Parcel FSE-1 from the Town Center Zone to
the Neighborhood Mixed-Use 1 (NMU-1) Zone. Parcel FSE-1 (37.32
acres); Applicant: Elliott Workgroup (Sid Ostergaard), representing
SRE Ontario LLC; Project #PRE-APPLICATION; Administrative and
Legislative Review. Amir Caus, Senior Planner, AICP. (4:32 P.M.)
Amir Caus, AICP, Senior Planner, provided an introduction for the
Master Planned Development for Outlets Park City.
29
Justin Keys, Attorney, presented a brief history of discussions
surrounding the desire to redevelop the outlet center.
Craig Elliot and Sid Ostergaard, Applicants, addressed the Commission
and presented a proposal for the redevelopment of the Outlets Park City
for discussion and direction.
Commission members provided comments and feedback during the
discussion and asked clarifying questions to which the applicants
responded.
Attachment: Outlets Park City MPD-NMU-CUP-LIP Staff Report.pdf
- BREAK -
Regular Session (6:02 P.M.)
1) Public input items not on the agenda or pending applications. (6:02
P.M.)
Commission Chair Carmichael opened the meeting for public input at
6:03 p.m.
No public input was offered.
Commission Chair Carmichael closed the meeting for public input at
6:03 p.m.
2) **Election of Chair and Co-Chair.** (6:03 P.M.)
Bruce Carmichael made a motion to nominate Chris Conabee to
serve as the Chair of the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission.
Thomas Cooke seconded, and all voted in favor, (7-0).
Christopher Conabee made a motion to nominate DJ Hubler to
serve as the vice-chair of the Snyderville Basin Planning
Commission. Thomas Cooke seconded, and all voted in favor, (7-
0).
3) Action regarding a Conditional Use Permit for a "Vehicle control
gate" use for the benefit of the White Pine Ranches Subdivision,
located at 2157 W White Pine Ln., Snyderville Basin, Summit
County, UT; Applicant: Douglas Clyde representing White Pine
Ranches HOA. Project #23-136. Administrative Review. Public
hearing was closed for this item on January 9, 2024. Amir Caus,
Senior Planner, AICP. (6:06 P.M.)
Amir Caus, AICP, Senior Planner, reintroduced the White Pine Ranches
Subdivision vehicle control gate CUP for possible action and discussion.
Douglas Clyde representing White Pine Ranches HOA and Rick
Nemeroff, White Pine Ranches HOA President, provided an update on
trespassing incidents since the January 9th Snyderville Basin Planning
Commission meeting.
30
Commission members asked questions and provided feedback to the
applicants.
Makena Hawley made a motion to approve the CUP for a vehicle
control gate located 2157 West White Pine Lane, Snyderville,
Summit County, Utah with the clarified findings of fact,
conclusions of law and updated conditions of approval. Tyann
Mooney seconded, and all voted in favor, (7-0).
Attachment: White Pine Ranches Gate CUP Staff Report SECOND
MEETING FINAL.pdf
Commission Items (6:30 P.M.)
Commission Chair Conabee welcomed Commissioner Nagie to the
commission.
Director Items (6:32 P.M.)
Patrick Putt, Community Development Director, welcomed Matthew Nagie as
the newest member of the commission and thanked Commissioner Carmichael
for his service as Chair over the past year. Director Putt provided a preview of
items scheduled for upcoming meetings.
Adjournment (6:37 p.m.)
Thomas Cooke made a motion to adjourn. Makena Hawley seconded, and
all voted in favor, (7-0).
31
AGENDA ITEM NO. 1
Staff Report
 
 
DATE:
April 23, 2024
SUBMITTED BY:
Madlyn McDonough, Community Development
ITEM TYPE:
Discussion
AGENDA SECTION:
Work Session
SUBJECT:
Discussion regarding what was learned during the Our Summit
Visioning Process and an update to the Snyderville Basin General
Plan. 
County Planners: Jennifer Strader, Jennifer Leslie, Amir Caus, Madlyn
McDonough.  
SUGGESTED ACTION:
ESTIMATED TIME:
INTRODUCTION:
BACKGROUND:
CONCLUSION:
 
 
 
SNYDERVILLE BASIN PLANNING COMMISSION AGENDA ITEM REPORT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENTS:
SBPC Staff Report_4.23.24.pdf
32
 
 
1 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
 
To:   Snyderville Basin Planning Commission   
From:   Jennifer Leslie, Jennifer Strader, Amir Caus, Madlyn McDonough,  
County Planners 
Date of Meeting: April 23, 2024 
Type of Item:  Work Session 
 
Overview  
A comprehensive update of the current General Plan was last completed in 2015. The Kimball 
Junction Neighborhood Master Plan was completed in 2019.  Staff recommends that the 
Snyderville Basin Planning Commission begin the process of updating the Plan with a focus on 
increased specificity and the addition of next steps for implementation of each strategy.  The 
intention of updating the Snyderville Basin General Plan is to create a plan that is 
representative of the community and that is a highly usable guide for decision making. The final 
plan will be actionable, clear, and community directed.  
 
Our Summit Community Vision 
In the fall of 2022, the County began a year-long process to engage community members with 
the hope of identifying a clear vision for all of Summit County through Our Summit Community 
Visioning. The resultant vision statement, as adopted by the Summit County Council, is as 
follows: 
Summit County embraces growth thoughtfully and navigates change with integrity by 
upholding community identities through proactive planning.  Decisions that affect our 
natural resources, lifestyle, unique identities, communities, and future built 
environments are made responsibly to ensure communities remain affordable, healthy, 
and inclusive to current and future generations.   
 
Over the course of the visioning process, insight was gained into how Summit County wants to 
move forward collectively.  One clear ‘next step’ coming out of the visioning process is to 
update both the Eastern Summit County and Snyderville Basin General Plans.  
 
As staff and planning commissioners, our task is to continue refining information in order to 
identify how we can reach our collective vision for the future.  Our Summit Vision and Strategic 
Plan provides an excellent place to start for further exploration into the what, where, and how 
of crafting a General Plan that is representative of the various communities individually and of 
Snyderville Basin as a whole that still advances the vision of all of Summit County.   
 
33
2 
 
Why Now? 
In order to build off the momentum gained during Our Summit Community Visioning, the time 
is right to harness community involvement so that strategic and intentional planning decisions 
can be made to help shape the future of the Snyderville Basin.   
 
The County embarked on Our Summit with the understanding that it was the first step needed 
to kickstart a series of processes. The information gained through that process is high level and 
relatively general. In order to now create a General Plan that is specific and actionable, we will 
need more information.  In terms of specificity, we can think of the relationship between a 
vision, a general plan, and the development code like this: 
 
 
 
What can we expect?  
As a part of an update to the General Plan, staff, planning commission, and community 
members should expect a plan that includes: 
1. Analysis of data from sources including the most current Census and American 
Community Survey regarding  
a. Current and projected population 
b. Housing needs 
c. Job and market trends 
d. Transportation 
2. Analysis of data related to recreation, water conservation, and hazard mitigation 
3. Thorough and inclusive community engagement opportunities that build off the data 
and feedback gained during the visioning process. The opportunities may include, but 
are not limited to: surveys, focus groups, open houses, and stakeholder interviews with 
the intention of diving deeper into areas of focus revealed through the visioning process  
4. A refinement of goals, objectives, and policies for the Snyderville Basin  
5. Actionable strategies for each goal that can be assessed, reviewed, and, if necessary, 
revised annually  
6. Future land use map(s) that identify areas for growth, protection, and restoration. 
 
 
 
We began with a vision for the 
County as a whole.  Now, we need 
to get more specific information in 
order to develop a plan to meet 
that community vision.  After 
revising our general plans, we may 
take a closer look at the 
development code to ensure we 
have the tools needed to achieve 
our community specific goals and 
larger vision.   
34
3 
 
What exactly did we learn from the visioning process and how will that help us move 
forward? 
To view the entire report, please visit this link.  Below is a summary of the information 
collected. 
 
From January to December 2023, we had nearly 10,000 points of feedback from community 
members who attended a meeting, event or open house; responded to a poll or online 
questionnaire; participated in a one-on-one interview; or completed and returned a mail-in 
questionnaire.  
 
During this process, we identified themes that span the Snyderville Basin and Eastern Summit 
County boundary. For example, we heard from community members across the county that 
what they love most about living in Summit County is the access to recreational opportunities, 
the open space, and the rural character. Similarly, we heard shared sentiments that some of the 
biggest concerns for the future include balancing growth with community values, mitigating 
traffic and congestion, and enhancing community character. We heard that what could improve 
Summit County as a whole is increasing housing options and transportation connections, 
highlighting and encouraging elements that promote community character, strategically 
preserving agriculture, proactively planning for the protection of water quality and quantity. 
 
Based on all the feedback received, we identified five community-wide objectives: 
1. Manage Natural Resources: Strategically acquire, preserve, and maintain an 
accessible and connected open space system for community enjoyment and 
ecosystem vitality. 
2. Promote Healthy Living: Equitably increase opportunities for recreation, safe walking 
and bicycling, access to services, and availability of amenities for people of all ages 
and abilities. 
3. Preserve Unique Identities: Celebrate the unique identity of each community while 
recognizing the need for strategic, comprehensive planning countywide. 
4. Create Inclusive Communities: Elevate the quality of life for Summit County 
community members through accessible housing and employment opportunities 
that diversify the economy. 
5. Grow Responsibly: Promote sustainability best practices through multi-modal 
transportation options, building aesthetic, site design, and local and regional policy. 
 
Under each of those objectives, we identified strategies and priorities for the County as a 
whole. The Planning Commission and staff must now take the strategies most appropriate for 
the Snyderville Basin and plan for their implementation. As an example, consider the following: 
Perhaps Snyderville Basin chooses to implement a menu of development incentives to 
encourage affordable and attainable housing. During the General Plan process, we 
would then need to determine what that looks like and where that might be 
appropriate, which will require further engagement from the community. 
 
In addition to establishing community-wide objectives, strategies, and priorities, we also began 
to analyze data by community area. 
35
4 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
37
6 
 
There are key ideas that we see again and again, such as improving housing options. We now 
need to dive deeper to understand the types of housing each community needs, the amount, 
and where housing makes most sense.   
 
We will also dive deeper into the community areas to identify strategies that will be most 
successful in each area.  
 
 
What is the structure of a General Plan?   
General Plans can take on a variety of forms and include a variety of information.  Based on the 
Utah State Legislature, a General Plan must, at minimum, include the following (for more 
information, visit 17-27a-402): 
1. A land use element that: 
a. designates the long-term goals and the proposed extent, general distribution, 
and location of land for housing for residents of various income levels, business, 
industry, agriculture, recreation, education, public buildings and grounds, open 
space, and other categories of public and private uses of land as appropriate; 
b. includes a statement of the projections for and standards of population density 
and building intensity recommended for the various land use categories covered 
by the plan; 
c. is coordinated to integrate the land use element with the water use and 
preservation element; and 
d. accounts for the effect of land use categories and land uses on water demand; 
2. a transportation and traffic circulation element that: 
a. provides the general location and extent of existing and proposed freeways, 
arterial and collector streets, public transit, active transportation facilities, and 
other modes of transportation that the planning commission considers 
appropriate; 
b. addresses the county's plan for residential and commercial development around 
major transit investment corridors to maintain and improve the connections 
between housing, employment, education, recreation, and commerce; and 
c. correlates with the population projections, the employment projections, and the 
proposed land use element of the general plan; 
3. for a specified county as defined in Section 17-27a-408, a moderate income housing 
element that: 
a. provides a realistic opportunity to meet the need for additional moderate 
income housing within the next five years; 
b. selects three or more moderate income housing strategies described in 
Subsection (2)(b)(ii) for implementation; and 
c. includes an implementation plan as provided in Subsection (2)(e); 
4. a resource management plan detailing the findings, objectives, and policies required by 
Subsection 17-27a-401(3); and 
5. a water use and preservation element that addresses: 
a. the effect of permitted development or patterns of development on water 
demand and water infrastructure; 
38
7 
 
b. methods of reducing water demand and per capita consumption for future 
development; 
c. methods of reducing water demand and per capita consumption for existing 
development; and 
d. opportunities for the county to modify the county's operations to eliminate 
practices or conditions that waste water. 
 
In addition, the General Plan may include the following: 
- An environmental element (e.g. protection, conservation, use of natural resources) 
- A public services and facilities element (e.g. waste disposal, public utilities, police and 
fire) 
- An economic element (e.g. economic development plan) 
- Recommendations for implementing all or a portion of the General Plan 
- Any other element the County considers appropriate 
 
 
Example Table of Contents for the Snyderville Basin General Plan 
 
- Chapter 1:  Who We Are 
o Introduction 
o Community Vision 
- Chapter 2:  Land Use 
o Future Land Use Map(s) 
o Housing 
o Economic Development 
- Chapter 3:  Transportation 
o Roads 
o Public Transit 
o Alternative Transportation 
- Chapter 4:  Natural Resources 
o Parks, Trails, and Open Space 
o Water Conservation 
o Watershed 
- Chapter 5:  Sustainability 
o Water Quality 
- Chapter 6:  Implementation 
 
Example Internal Structure for each Chapter 
 
- Introduction and Vision 
- Goals 
- Community Feedback 
- Existing Conditions and Projections (Data) 
- Strategic next steps (related to specific goals 
39
8 
 
What is the timeline for the General Plan update? 
Staff proposes two rounds of community engagement between approximately May 2024 and 
September 2025. As a part of each round, different types of meetings and events will be held to 
engage as many community members as possible.  
 
Round 1 of community engagement will begin in May 2024 and will inform the process and 
timeline for future engagement.  In Round 1 we will: 
- Launch Advisory Committee applications.  
- Analyze of existing conditions including related planning documents and community 
plans.   
- Launch Survey #1. 
- Hold an Advisory Committee orientation and kickoff meeting in which we analyze 
community input from Survey #1.  
 
Round 2 will be dependent on the feedback and direction received in Round 1.  Round 2 will 
likely include a community open house, focus group meetings, community led living room 
chats, and interactive, online engagement opportunities.  Advisory Committee meetings will 
continue to be held at regular intervals.   
 
In order to be responsive to needed, staff will be in touch by mid-June with an updated 
community engagement plan based on initial input.   
 
Community engagement will culminate with the draft General Plan being available to the public 
for comment prior to presentation to the Planning Commission. 
 
Upon completion of the General Plan update, staff will then proceed with Neighborhood Plans 
for the Snyderville Basin which will require more specific community engagement and analysis. 
 
 
What is my role as a Planning Commissioner? 
The Planning Commission’s responsibilities in regard to the General Plan process are to: 
- Review plan drafts and provide input on proposed vision, goals, implementation 
strategies, and future land use plans,  
- Consider a diverse spectrum of community interests and feedback, and 
- Draw on your own perspectives and experiences as community members and planning 
commissioners.   
- When possible, attend Open Houses and Focus Groups, participate in engagement 
opportunities, and encourage community members to do so as well. 
 
Once a General Plan draft is complete, the Planning Commission will begin the first step in the 
adoption process, including reviewing the draft, conducting public hearings, and providing a 
recommendation to the County Council.   
 
The County Council has adoption authority for the General Plan and so needs to be engaged 
throughout the planning process.  Members of the Advisory Committee will provide formal and 
40
9 
 
informal updates to the County Council at key points during the process to share progress 
updates, input received from the community, preliminary findings, and to discuss alternatives 
for moving forward.   
 
Advisory committees are a commonly used tool during the creation or update of a General 
Plan, but they are not required. Staff is proposing an Advisory Committee with the following 
structure: 
 
- The five-member committee will consist of planning commissioners, a member at large, 
and a County Council member. 
o 2 planning commissioners from SBPC 
o 1 planning commissioner from ESC 
o 1 member at large from unincorporated Summit County 
o 1 County Council member 
- Selection of Advisory Committee members should prioritize equal representation in 
regard to geography as well as areas of interest (as indicated on the Advisory 
Committee Application in the appendix).   
o Agriculture 
o Sustainable Tourism 
o Environmental Stewardship 
o Community Character 
o Economic Development 
o Land Use  
o Transportation 
 
Committee members shall be appointed by the County Manager after recommendation by the 
Community Development Director. Appointments will be based on a written application and a, 
if deemed necessary, an interview. Applications will be available on the Summit County website 
and paper copies will be available at the Community Development Department.  
 
 
What do staff need next? 
As a reminder, staff does not anticipate a complete rewrite of the General Plan, and instead 
envisions updates to the existing language to add specificity and clarity. To understand what 
might need adjusted, staff asks that the Planning Commission thoroughly review the existing 
General Plan. By Wednesday, May 8, please complete the following tasks to help guide staff 
and inform future community engagement:  
 
1. Staff will send each member of the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission a copy of the 
General Plan document. Please feel free to provide any edits or suggestions on the 
provided copy.  
2. For each chapter of the existing Snyderville Basin General Plan, please read each chapter 
preface (in italics below), read the chapter itself, and then answer the following 
questions. When possible, please provide specific examples or reference specific 
objectives and policies.  
41
10 
 
a. Questions for each chapter: 
i. What do you like about this chapter?  
ii. What could be improved in this chapter, specific policy or overall?  
iii. Is anything missing from this chapter?  
iv. How have you used this chapter to inform decision making?  
 
 
Chapter 1: Vision and Background 
 
Chapter 2: Land Use 
The intent of this chapter is to plan for future development while preserving critical lands and 
the historic and cultural character of the Snyderville Basin. Consider the results of the 
community visioning process. 
 
Chapter 3: Open Space 
The intent of this chapter is to plan for the preservation of open space and critical lands for 
recreational, cultural, and scenic spaces. Consider the types of open space we have in the 
County. 
 
Chapter 4: Recreation and Trails 
The intention of this chapter is to plan for connected, varied recreation opportunities 
throughout the Basin. Consider the amount of recreation opportunities that currently exist and 
findings from the visioning exercise.   
 
Chapter 5: Sustainability, Cultural, and Natural Resources 
The intention of this chapter is to highlight cultural and natural resources through protection 
efforts and encouragement of sensitive, sustainable development. Consider the applicability of 
the objectives and policies included. 
 
Chapter 6: Housing Element 
Moderate income housing is “housing reserved for occupancy by households with a gross 
household income equal to or less than 80% of the median gross income…” One of Council’s 
strategic goals is “Local Housing Choice” and it states: “The County will work with state, private 
development interests, and regional government partners to understand what is needed in the 
workforce and other types of targeted need housing. The County will set policies and codes that 
work for the unincorporated portions of the County contributing to defined housing choices in 
our community; all done with a strict eye toward the way Summit County wants to grow.”  
  
Due to the relationship between where people live and work in not only the Snyderville Basin, 
but in the surrounding areas such as Park City and Wasatch County, it is important to think 
about how the County can work with those jurisdictions in creating legitimate plans to advance 
housing. Consider how advancing housing opportunities also affects the other elements of the 
General Plan. 
 
 
42
11 
 
Chapter 7: Services and Facilities 
This chapter focuses on ensuring that public services and adequate levels of service exist at the 
government level. Each entity has a way to manage their levels of service to ensure they can 
function appropriately. Availability of public services is something reviewed through the 
development permit approval process. Each development must show that appropriate 
infrastructure and services are available (or will be available) to support the development. While 
answering these questions, consider if there are services missing or that need improvement. 
 
Chapter 8: Transportation, Circulation, and Connectivity  
The intent of this chapter is to consider transportation options throughout the County. Owning 
and driving an automobile should not be the only way to safely and efficiently travel. While 
answering these questions, consider your transportation choices and what would be required to 
change your travel habits.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
43
12 
 
Appendix: 
 
Sample Application for Advisory Committee 
*Insert description of a General Plan and explanation of the purpose of an Advisory Committee* 
1. Name: _______________________ 
2. Email: ________________________ 
3. Home address: ___________________________________ 
4. Are you willing and able to serve as an advisory committee member for the Snyderville 
Basin General Plan? We will meet monthly from May 2024 to approximately August 
2025.   
5. What are you most interested in exploring through the process of updating the 
Snyderville Basin General Plan? Please rank the following with 1 being your greatest 
interest.   
⎯ Agriculture 
⎯ Sustainable tourism 
⎯ Environmental stewardship 
⎯ Community character 
⎯ Economic development 
⎯ Land use 
⎯ Transportation 
⎯ Other:   
 
6. Please explain why you would be a valuable member of the Advisory Committee.  You 
do not need to be an expert or have any experience in planning! 
7. When you think about the future of the Snyderville Basin, what do you envision and 
why?   
8. If you had to describe yourself using five words or less, what would those words be?  
Why did you choose those words? (The explanation can be longer than five words      ) 
9. Please indicate your availability on Thursdays to meet via Zoom. 
▪ 9:00am – 10:00 am:   Available     NOT available  
▪ 12:00pm – 1:00pm:   Available     NOT available 
▪ 3:00pm – 4:00pm:     Available     NOT available 
▪ 4:00pm – 5:00pm:     Available     NOT available 
▪ 5:00pm – 6:00pm:     Available     NOT available 
▪ 6:00pm – 7:00pm:     Available     NOT available 
 
 
 
 
44