1.
Public input items not on the agenda or pending applications.
2.
Continued public hearing from July 18, 2024, and possible action regarding a Conditional
Use Permit for the property located at 7550 Lower Bowl Road, Browns Canyon, Summit
County, Utah. The applicant is requesting the following uses;
 
Rock quarries, gravel pits, and associated surface mining uses, including, but not
limited to, filtering, sifting, and processing of soil,
Recycling facility, Class II 
Nursery/greenhouse
Contractor's yard
Parcel: SS-70-11 (44.59 acres) Applicant: Kylee Mimbach; Administrative Review. 
Project
#23-194. 
Amir Caus, AICP, Senior Planner. 
AGENDA 
EASTERN SUMMIT COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION 
Thursday, August 
1, 2024
NOTICE is hereby given that the Eastern Summit County Planning Commission will meet
electronically, via Zoom, and at the anchor location of South Summit County Services Building -
Auditorium
110 North Main Street, Kamas, Utah 84036
(All times listed are general in nature, and are subject to change by the Board Chair)
 
You may attend in person or
 
Join Zoom webinar:
https://summitcountyut.zoom.us/j/99249026124
OR 
To listen by phone only: Dial 1-301-715-8592, 
or 1-253-215-8782, Webinar ID: 992 4902 6124
 
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
 
 
Combined Memo with Staff Report from 7 18 24.pdf
Commission Items
Director Items
Adjourn
To view staff reports available at the end of the Friday before the meeting please visit
www.summitcounty.org.
Individuals needing special accommodations pursuant to the Americans with Disabilities Act regarding this meeting may
1
contact Vicki Geary, Summit County Community Development Department at (435) 336-3123.
2
AGENDA ITEM NO. 1
Staff Report
 
 
DATE:
August 
1, 2024
SUBMITTED BY:
Vicki Geary, Planning
ITEM TYPE:
Discussion
AGENDA SECTION:
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
SUBJECT:
Public input items not on the agenda or pending applications.
SUGGESTED ACTION:
ESTIMATED TIME:
INTRODUCTION:
BACKGROUND:
CONCLUSION:
 
 
 
EASTERN SUMMIT COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION 
AGENDA ITEM REPORT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENTS:
3
AGENDA ITEM NO. 2
Staff Report
 
 
DATE:
August 
1, 2024
SUBMITTED BY:
Vicki Geary, Planning
ITEM TYPE:
Action
AGENDA SECTION:
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
SUBJECT:
Continued public hearing from July 18, 2024, and possible action
regarding a Conditional Use Permit for the property located at 7550
Lower Bowl Road, Browns Canyon, Summit County, Utah. The
applicant is requesting the following uses;
 
Rock quarries, gravel pits, and associated surface mining uses,
including, but not limited to, filtering, sifting, and processing of
soil,
Recycling facility, Class II 
Nursery/greenhouse
Contractor's yard
Parcel: SS-70-11 (44.59 acres) Applicant: Kylee Mimbach;
Administrative Review. 
Project #23-194. 
Amir Caus, AICP, Senior
Planner. 
SUGGESTED ACTION:
ESTIMATED TIME:
INTRODUCTION:
BACKGROUND:
CONCLUSION:
 
 
 
EASTERN SUMMIT COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION 
AGENDA ITEM REPORT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENTS:
Combined Memo with Staff Report from 7 18 24.pdf
4
 
  
60 North MainP.O. Box 128Coalville, UT 84017 
Phone (435) 336-3124, 615-3124, 783-4351 x3124Fax (435) 336-3024 
 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
To:   Eastern Summit County Planning Commission  
From:   Planning Staff    
Date of Meeting: 1 August 2024 
 Item: Mimbach Conditional Use Permit: Continuation of Public Hearing and 
Possible Action 
Process:  Administrative 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
The Eastern Summit County Planning Commission continued the public hearing for the Mimbach 
conditional use permit on July 18, 2024 to allow comment from neighboring residents not present at the 
meeting. The staff report from the July 18
th meeting is attached to this memorandum. No changes the 
staff report, draft findings of fact; and draft conditions of approval have been made pending the 
completion of the public comment portion of the process. Among the highlighted ESCPC discussion 
items at the previous meeting were: 
 
• Fugitive dust control 
• Water quality 
• Snow storage capacity 
• Hours of operation for the importation of off-site snow removal 
• Management of recycling materials and imported soils 
• OSHA compliance 
 
Staff recommends that the Commission take all necessary public comment; continue its deliberation of 
the application; and: 
 
1. Take action on the application; or 
2. Direct staff to return with specific changes for action at the August 15, 2024 
5
 Community Development Department 
P.O. Box 128 
60 North Main Street 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
summitcounty.org 
 
  
 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
To:   Eastern Summit County Planning Commission   
From:   Amir Caus, Senior Planner 
Date of Meeting: July 18, 2024 
Type of Item:  Mimbach Conditional Use Permit - Public Hearing, Possible Action 
Process:  Administrative Review 
File #:   23-194 
 
 
Recommendation: Staff has reviewed the application for compliance with standards in the 
Eastern Summit County Development Code and has found that it meets the minimum required 
for approval as conditioned. Staff recommends that the Eastern Summit County Planning 
Commission review the proposed Conditional Use Permit and conduct a public hearing. Should 
the Planning Commission find that there are no unmitigable conditions for the proposal, Staff 
has prepared draft Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Conditions of Approval. Should the 
Planning Commission find that there are unmitigable conditions for the proposal, the Planning 
Commission can direct Staff to return to a future meeting with draft findings to support the 
Planning Commission’s decision. 
 
Project Description 
 
Project Name:   Mimbach Conditional Use Permit 
Applicant(s):   Kylee Mimbach 
Property Owner(s):  Troy Long Enterprises LLC  
Location:   7550 Lower Bowl Road, Browns Canyon, Summit County, Utah 
Zone District:   AG-80 
Parcel Number and Size: SS-70-11 (44.59 acres) 
Type of Process:  Administrative 
Final Land Use Authority: Eastern Summit County Planning Commission 
  
Proposal 
 
The Summit County Community Development Department has received an application for a 
Conditional Use Permit for Parcel SS-70-11 (44.59 acres), located at 7550 Lower Bowl Road, 
Browns Canyon, Summit County, UT. Based on the uses described by the applicant, uses 
documented by Summit County, and per Eastern Summit County Development Code, Staff finds 
that the proposed uses fall under the following designations and are a Conditional Use Permit 
in the AG-80 Zone;  
6
2 
 
 
• Rock quarries, gravel pits, and associated surface mining uses, including, but not limited 
to, filtering, sifting, and processing of soil  
o NO DEFINITION 
• Recycling facility, Class II 
o DEFINITION; “A building, structure or designated area with recycling containers 
totaling over sixty (60) cubic yards of capacity per lot or residential/business 
development used for the collection, processing, composting, and temporary 
storage or transfer of recyclable materials such as glass, plastic, aluminum, 
mixed metals, fiber, and cardboard that may be for the use of the entire 
community.” 
• Nursery/greenhouse 
o DEFINITION; “An enterprise that conducts the retail or wholesale of plants grown 
on or off the premises, as well as related accessory equipment.” 
• Contractor's yard 
o DEFINITION; “Any land or buildings used primarily for the storage of equipment, 
vehicles, machinery (new or used), building materials, paints, pipe, or electrical 
components used by the owner or occupant of the premises in the conduct of any 
building trades or building craft.” 
 
NOTE: The applicant has been operating without appropriate land use permits. Please refer to 
the current conditions aerials in Exhibit B of the Staff Report. The applicant is seeking a 
Conditional Use Permit to bring each of the operations into compliance with all required 
Summit County Codes.  
 
According to the applicant, the hours of operation are Monday through Saturday, 7:30 a.m. to 
5:30 p.m. 
 
Vicinity Map 
 
7
3 
 
Background 
 
In Early September 2023, County Code Enforcement officers began receiving complaints that 
the applicant was operating a soil recycling business on the property. Trucks were entering the 
site and dumping soil multiple times per day. On September 20, 2023, Code Enforcement issued 
a Notice of Violation for operation of a soil recycling business without a required Conditional 
Use Permit, and advised the applicant to meet with Staff to determine what permits would be 
required in order to bring the proposed operation into compliance. The applicant met with Staff 
on September 26, 2023, and directed the applicant to submit a Conditional Use Permit for the 
following uses; 
 
• Rock quarries, gravel pits, and associated surface mining uses, including, but not limited 
to, filtering, sifting, and processing of soil  
• Recycling facility, Class II 
• Nursery/greenhouse 
• Contractor's yard 
 
The applicant was advised by Staff as well as by Code Enforcement Officers that he was 
required to receive approval of a Conditional Use Permit before they could continue 
operations. Please refer to the Summit County Code Enforcement reports in Exhibit C of this 
Staff Report.  
 
The applicant submitted a Conditional Use Permit Application on November 16, 2023. The 
applicant cited in the application that the Project Description/Type of Use was for a “Tree and 
Compost Farm.” On December 12, 2023, Staff sent to the applicant an Acknowledgment Letter 
which determined the application to be incomplete due to lack of information.  
 
Staff continued to receive complaints that the applicant was still in operation without the 
proper permits. On April 2, 2024, a second Notice of Violation was issued. Between April 2, 
2024, and June 11, 2024, Code Enforcement Officers conducted periodic surveillance of the site 
and found that the applicant was still operating without a permit.  
 
On June 11, 2024, a third Notice of Violation and Stop Work Order was issued on site. To 
enforce the Stop Work Order a large sign was placed at the entry to Lower Bowl Road informing 
all truck drivers that dumping on the site is a violation of County Ordinances.  Since that date, 
operations on site have ceased.  
 
The Notice of Violation was scheduled for a hearing before the Summit County Administrative 
Law Judge on June 20, 2024, but was continued to a future date. Any judgements would need 
to be adhered to regardless of the decision for this Conditional Use Permit.  
 
On May 12, 2024, the applicant submitted additional  information to supplement the 
application. On May 17, 2024, Staff sent the updated information for Service Provider review. 
The Summit County Engineering Department (Engineering Department) and Storm Water 
Division provided a list of significant corrections, clarifications, and requirements before they 
could confirm compliance with their applicable requirements.   
8
4 
 
 
 
 
Between June 28, 2024 and July 5, 2024 the applicant again submitted additional information 
which included corrections and clarifications requested by Staff and service providers.  
 
In addition to the proposed uses, the applicant is operating a nightly rental business of the 
existing home. The applicant has stated that they have constructed berms which separate the 
proposed uses from the nightly rental. The applicant also improved a separate ingress/egress to 
separate the proposed uses from the nightly rental. The applicant did not obtain a grading 
permit for the berm nor an encroachment permit for the driveway. On July 10, 2024, 
Occupational Health Safety Administration (OSHA) performed an inspection for the proposed 
non-residential operation and for the nightly rental, however results of the inspection were not 
available at the time of this report. Staff has included a condition of approval that the property 
will need to be in compliance with all applicable OSHA safety standards. 
 
Analysis and Findings 
 
Section 11-3-16 of the Eastern Summit County Development Code requires that following uses 
be reviewed as a Conditional Use Permit in the AG-80 Zone; 
 
• Rock quarries, gravel pits, and associated surface mining uses, including, but not limited 
to, filtering, sifting, and processing of soil  
• Recycling facility, Class II 
• Nursery/greenhouse 
• Contractor's yard 
 
Criteria for Approval 
 
Rock quarries, gravel pits, and associated surface mining uses, including, but not limited to, 
filtering, sifting, and processing of soil – Conditional Use Permit Required 
 
The applicant is proposing to accept material from construction sites. The applicant’s goal is to 
construct a platform which would be prepared for a tree farm and an orchard. The proposed area 
is approximately 800 feet by 700 feet, with an anticipated fill  that ranges from 0 to 25 feet 
(depending on slope). The applicant has stated that some materials taken in will also be 
processed and sold. 
 
Recycling facility, Class II – Conditional Use Permit Required 
 
The applicant is proposing to accept compostable material to be used for the proposed tree farm 
and orchard, but also to sell. The applicant is also proposing to take in other recyclable materials 
to be processed on site. The materials such as metal and glass which cannot be used for compost 
would be stored on site and transported to facilities that process these materials.  
 
 
9
5 
 
 
Nursery/greenhouse – Conditional Use Permit Required 
 
The applicant is proposing to plant a tree farm and an orchard. The applicant is proposing to sell 
trees that are grown. The applicant has stated that the greenhouse for the Nursery/greenhouse  
use on the property would be utilized within an existing detached subterranean garage area.  
 
The applicant also has an existing greenhouse on the property that is part of the home. The 
applicant has confirmed that the greenhouse within the home which is being used as a nightly 
rental would be part of their nightly rental use. Staff has included a condition of approval that 
the greenhouse within the home cannot be used as part of the proposed Conditional Use Permit.  
 
Contractor’s yard – Conditional Use Permit Required 
 
The applicant is proposing to store their equipment within the 2 -acre designated Contractor’s 
Yard area. The applicant is also planning to rent portions of this designated area to third parties 
to store their equipment.  
 
Contractor’s Yards Criteria 
 
Per Section 11-6-23 of the Eastern Summit County Development Code, Contractor’s Yards are 
required to meet the following standards; 
 
1. Review: The applicant shall submit a site plan and written narrative that clearly identifies 
and explains the location and size of all proposed structures, parking areas, and outdoor 
storage areas.  
 
Analysis: The applicant has included the contractor yard details in their operational plan 
and site plan (Exhibit A). COMPLIES AS CONDITIONED 
 
2. Disturbance Area: The maximum disturbance area of a Contractor's Yard shall be two (2) 
acres.  
 
Analysis: The applicant has limited their contractor yard disturbance to 0.3 acres. 
COMPLIES AS CONDITIONED 
 
3. Buffer: The Contractor's Yard shall be located a minimum distance of three hundred feet 
from any residence, except for the owner's residence.  
 
Analysis: The proposed contractor yard is not located within three hundred feet from 
any residence, except for the owner’s residence. COMPLIES 
 
4. Screening: All outdoor storage and vehicle parking areas shall be screened from view 
from adjacent properties. Appropriate screening may include fencing, berms, or 
vegetation. The Planning Commission shall determine the most appropriate screening 
material/method as part of the Conditional Use Permit.  
 
10
6 
 
 
 
 
Analysis: The applicant is proposing a 6-foot-tall berm that surrounds the contractor 
yard area. Should the Planning Commission find this mitigation measure to be 
inadequate, the Planning Commission can require additional measures to be taken. 
COMPLIES AS CONDITIONED 
 
5. Dust/Mud: The applicant shall submit a dust and erosion control plan that demonstrates 
no migration of soil beyond the subject property boundary, as well as mitigation to 
prevent vehicles from tracking mud onto the right-of-way.  
 
Analysis: The applicant has provided a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan which the 
Summit County Storm Water Division has accepted. Non-compliance may result in fines 
and/or revocation of the Conditional Use Permit. COMPLIES AS CONDITIONED 
 
6. Maintenance Pad: The applicant shall install an impervious pad with containment 
borders and a filtration system to address run off for the storage and maintenance of 
vehicles/equipment. 
 
Analysis: Staff has included this requirement as a condition of approval. COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
7. Office: The contractor's business office may be an accessory use to a Contractor's Yard. 
 
Analysis: The applicant has identified a construction trailer as a business office for their 
entire operation. NOTE: The office trailer is located adjacent to the contractor yard. 
Summit County Health Department have stated that they are satisfied with the proposal 
with regard to septic. Utility providers have not raised any concerns during service 
provider review. COMPLIES AS CONDITIONED 
 
8. Employee Parking: All employee parking, including any ADA spaces, shall be onsite. 
 
Analysis: The applicant has designated 30 parking spaces adjacent to the construction 
trailer/office and the contractor yard area. All parking and storage is proposed to be on 
gravel. COMPLIES AS CONDITIONED 
 
9. Lighting: Architectural and safety lighting compliant with Section 11-6-20
 of this title is 
allowed. Parking lot lighting, and flood lighting are prohibited. 
 
Analysis: The applicant has confirmed that they are not utilizing any lighting for the 
proposed uses. Any future lighting would be reviewed through a Low Impact Permit and 
would need to comply with Summit County’s lighting regulations. COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
 
 
11
7 
 
 
 
Conditional Use Permit Analysis  
 
Per Section 11-4-7(B) of the Eastern Summit County Development Code; Before an application 
for a conditional use permit is approved, the Planning Commission must conclude that factual 
evidence exists to verify the following findings: 
 
1. The proposed use, as conditioned, shall be appropriate in the particular location, taking 
into account the nature of the use, its relationship to surrounding uses and its impact on 
the natural environment. 
 
Analysis:  The proposed use, as conditioned, is adjacent to various soil processing, rock 
crushing, and quarry uses and is appropriate for the particular location. COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
2. The proposed use, as conditioned, shall be in compliance with the development 
evaluations standards in chapter 2 of this title. 
 
Analysis: Staff has reviewed the application for compliance with the standards 
established in Chapter 2 of the Eastern Summit County Development Code, and found 
the following: 
 
Code Requirement   Analysis Finding 
1. Agriculture The use will neither hinder nor eliminate 
any existing agricultural operations in the 
area. The location and nature of the area 
will remain the same. Therefore, the effects 
of the use on the surrounding agriculture 
will remain the same as well. 
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
2. Water and 
Sewage 
The State Engineer has issued a Certificate 
of Beneficial Use of one (1) acre foot of 
water for the subject property. The 
applicant has acquired an additional two (2) 
acre feet of water from the Weber River 
Water Users’ Association. The applicant is 
currently working with the State Engineer 
on obtaining a Water Exchange Application 
approval. The applicant is proposing 
~10,000 trees. The State Engineer has 
confirmed that the total water acquired is 
sufficient for up to 11,000 trees. The 
number of trees will be limited to the 
number of available wet water as per the 
State Engineer. 
 
After multiple attempts to reach the South 
Summit Fire Department, Staff did not 
receive input.  
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
12
8 
 
 
A breakroom (construction trailer) and 
restrooms are located on site. The Health 
Department has reviewed the proposed 
application and have stated that they are 
satisfied with the proposal regarding water 
and sewage. 
3. Natural 
Resources 
There are no identified wetlands and year-
round streams in the disturbance area. 
Slopes are generally 10-20%.  
 
The Engineering Department has confirmed 
that the proposed drainage and retention 
are acceptable with respect to their 
requirements. The Engineering Department 
has also stated that they will require a site 
restoration bond of $77958.70 to be placed.  
 
Summit County Storm Water Division will 
require that all required Best Management 
Practices are adhered to at all times, 
including but not limited to dust control.  
 
Regarding contaminated soils, the applicant 
has stated; “We do not accept any fill from 
any areas that have had active mining 
operations, tailings storage, or are known to 
have any contamination.  We document the 
source of all incoming materials.   Example; 
all of the prospector area is an off limits 
area, we do not accept materials from those 
types of areas ever.  Fill and topsoil we 
accept are from areas like Promontory 
which are mostly undisturbed.  All fill has 
the source documented to ensure we are 
not taking contaminated materials... We 
have an onsite lab where we test and 
analyze the biological components of the 
compost, topsoil, and other products we 
process. We are actively involved in 
becoming certified for advanced lab 
testing.”  The Health Department has 
confirmed that that this is satisfactory. Staff 
have included conditions of approval to 
prohibit acceptance of contaminated soils. 
Noncompliance may result in the revocation 
of the Conditional Use Permit.  
 
The proposed hours of operation are in line 
with construction work related hours as per 
the Summit County Noise Ordinance (Ord. 
316-B). 
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
13
9 
 
 
Staff has routed the application to affected 
Summit County departments, State of Utah 
agencies and affected service providers and 
no additional issues were raised. 
4. County 
Infrastructure, 
Facilities and 
Services 
Access to the property is from Lower Bowl 
Road (private road) via Browns Canyon 
Road.  
 
The applicant has stated that they expect up 
to 150 full-size trucks that bring in material 
for the fill area. The applicant has also 
stated that they expect up to 50 
landscaping trucks and trailers to bring in 
compostable materials. The applicant stated 
that most of the materials would be kept for 
the tree farm/orchard operation, but also 
plan on selling the composted material.  
 
The Engineering Department has confirmed 
that they will monitor the amount of traffic 
coming in and out of the property with 
regard to the impact on County 
infrastructure as it relates to traffic volume, 
and other public services. The Engineering 
Department has included conditions of 
approval that a traffic study and future 
mitigation may be required as part of 
ongoing monitoring.  
 
The Engineering Department has also 
confirmed compliance with their 
requirements including, but not limited to, 
slope compliance, grading limitations, and 
erosion control.  
 
The applicant has stated that the operation 
has 6-10 employees. The applicant has 
stated that they use the following 
equipment; five (5) tractors, two (2) skid-
steers, two (2) excavators, and two (2) 
pickup trucks with trailers. Additional 
attachments for equipment include a street 
sweeper, water tank, grinder, and compost 
turner. 
 
After multiple attempts to reach the South 
Summit Fire Department, Staff did not 
receive input.  
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
14
10 
 
5. Infrastructure 
Design and 
Maintenance 
No new roadways are being proposed. The 
Engineering Department has reviewed the 
proposed ingress/egress. The applicant has 
separated the ingress/egress for the 
proposed Conditional Use Permit 
operations and the nightly rental.  
 
Please refer to Item #4 regarding road 
infrastructure and conditions from the 
Engineering Department.  
 
Summit County Sheriff’s Department has 
stated that they have no concerns regarding 
the proposal.  
 
After multiple attempts to reach the South 
Summit Fire Department, Staff did not 
receive input. 
 
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
 
3. The applicant shall present evidence to show approval of the landowner for the 
particular use, unless the land is owned by the applicant and, in such case, the 
applicant shall submit proof of ownership. 
 
Analysis: County records confirm that Troy Long Enterprises LLC is the owner of 
Parcel SS-70-11. The property owner (Troy Long) has given consent for the 
processing of the application. COMPLIES AS CONDITIONED 
 
      4.    There are reasonable conditions that can be imposed which mitigate the reasonably 
anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. 
 
Analysis: The applicant has worked with the Summit County Engineering 
Department, Summit County Storm Water Division, and the State of Utah Division of 
Water Quality. If the applicant were to conduct operations that are contrary to the 
documentation provided in the exhibit package and conditions imposed, action 
would be taken by the County Code Enforcement, other applicable County 
Departments/Divisions, and applicable State agencies. COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
 
Service Providers 
 
Staff has routed the application to affected Summit County departments, State of Utah  
agencies and affected service providers. Service provider comments, clarifications, and 
conditions have been included in this Staff Report. No additional issues were raised by the 
service providers.  
 
15
11 
 
 
 
Recommendation 
 
Staff recommends that the Eastern Summit County Planning Commission review the proposed 
Conditional Use Permit and conduct a public hearing. Should the Planning Commission find that 
there are no unmitigable conditions for the proposal, Staff has prepared draft Findings of Fact, 
Conclusions of Law and Conditions of Approval. Should the Planning Commission find that there  
are unmitigable conditions for the proposal, the Planning Commission can direct Staff to return 
to a future meeting with draft findings to support the Planning Commission’s decision. 
 
DRAFT: 
 
Findings of Fact: 
 
1. Parcel SS-70-11 (44.59 acres) is located at 7550 Lower Bowl Road, Browns Canyon, 
Summit County, Utah, in the AG-80 Zone.  
2. Troy Long Enterprises LLC is the owner of Parcel SS-70-11. 
3. Access to the property is from Lower Bowl Road.  
4. Section 11-3-16 of the Eastern Summit County Development Code requires that “Rock 
quarries, gravel pits, and associated surface mining uses, including, but not limited to, 
filtering, sifting, and processing of soil” be reviewed as a Conditional Use Permit in the 
AG-80 Zone.  
5. Based on the uses described by the applicant, uses documented by Summit County, and 
per Eastern Summit County Development Code, Staff finds that the proposed uses fall 
under the following designations and are a Conditional Use Permit in the AG-80 Zone;  
 
• Rock quarries, gravel pits, and associated surface mining uses, including, but not 
limited to, filtering, sifting, and processing of soil  
o NO DEFINITION 
• Recycling facility, Class II 
o DEFINITION: “A building, structure or designated area with recycling containers 
totaling over sixty (60) cubic yards of capacity per lot or residential/business 
development used for the collection, processing, composting, and temporary 
storage or transfer of recyclable materials such as glass, plastic, aluminum, 
mixed metals, fiber, and cardboard that may be for the use of the entire 
community.” 
• Nursery/greenhouse 
o DEFINITION: “An enterprise that conducts the retail or wholesale of plants grown 
on or off the premises, as well as related accessory equipment.” 
• Contractor's yard 
o DEFINITION: “Any land or buildings used primarily for the storage of equipment, 
vehicles, machinery (new or used), building materials, paints, pipe, or electrical 
components used by the owner or occupant of the premises in the conduct of any 
building trades or building craft.” 
 
16
12 
 
 
 
6. Per the application, the hours of operation will be Monday through Saturday, 7:30 a.m. 
to 5:30 p.m. 
7. The property owner (Troy Long) has given signed consent for the processing of the 
application. 
8. On July 10, 2024, Occupational Health Safety Administration (OSHA) performed an 
inspection for the proposed non-residential operation and for the nightly rental, 
however results of the inspection were not available at the time of this report.  
9. The applicant is not proposing to construct new roads. 
10. The Engineering Department has confirmed conditioned compliance with their 
requirements including, but not limited to; slope compliance, grading, grading 
limitations, and erosion control.  
11. Staff has routed the application to affected Summit County departments, State of Utah 
agencies and affected service providers and no additional issues were raised. 
12. No exterior lighting is proposed. 
 
Conclusions of Law: 
 
1. The proposed use, as conditioned, is appropriate in the particular location, taking into 
account the nature of the use, its relationship to surrounding uses and its impact on the 
natural environment. 
2. The proposed use, as conditioned, is in compliance with the development evaluations 
standards in Chapter 2 of the Eastern Summit County Development Code. 
3. The applicant has presented evidence to show approval of the landowner for the 
particular use. 
4. There are reasonable conditions that can be imposed which mitigate the reasonably 
anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. 
 
Conditions of Approval: 
 
1. The applicant shall follow the Operating Plan as outlined in Exhibit A of this Staff Report. 
2. All equipment and material associated with the applicant’s construction business must 
be screened from view from Lower Bowl Road.  
3. Screening shall be done with a privacy fence to be constructed along the boundary of 
the applicant’s parcel and Lower Bowl Road. Staff shall review the proposed fence for 
compliance prior to installation.  
4. All non-recycling material brought onto the site shall be for construction storage and 
preparation work done by the applicant and for preparation work done by third-parties 
with whom the applicant contracts to accept non-recycling material on the applicant’s 
site subject to all conditions of the applicant’s Conditional Use Permit for the site. 
5. Recycled materials, including raw materials, processed materials, or waste and 
byproducts of the recycling process shall be recycled in accordance with all State of Utah 
and Summit County Health standards.  
6. Recycling of other types of materials such as wood, metal, glass, paper, or plastics shall 
not be stored on site for a period longer than six (6) months.   
 
17
13 
 
 
 
7. The property shall not be used as a repository for excess soil or materials from other 
work sites, whether they be from the applicant or from other contractors.  
8. Under no circumstances shall the applicant accept contaminated soil or materials onto 
the site for any reason.  The applicant shall test materials prior to coming on site to 
ensure they are not contaminated.  
9. No disposal of construction waste or vegetation is allowed on site, except that applicant 
may bring vegetation such as trees, shrubs and green waste removed from a job site for 
the purpose of shredding or chipping such vegetation for distribution and resale to 
applicant’s clients. 
10. The applicant shall install a tire cleaning grid at the exit from the property. All exiting 
vehicles shall pass over this grid.   
11. No burning of vegetation from construction sites or construction waste is allowed on 
site.  
12. No storage of hazardous materials (gas, oil, etc.) exceeding levels established in Table 
307.1(1) of the International Building Code is allowed.  
13. Recycled material, including waste or byproducts of the recycling process, may not be 
used as fill on the site.  
14. Fill dirt may be dumped on site as part of the overall construction of the contractor’s 
yard and recycle facility. This fill is separate from recycled material or storage of 
material for the contractor’s yard. This fill shall be consistent with the approved site 
plan and shall meet all standards and conditions of approval from the Stormwater 
Manager, Engineering and Building Departments.  
15. No expansion of the site plan approved by the Planning Commission on October 20, 
2022, is authorized as part of this application.  
16. All necessary Federal, State, and Summit County permits shall be received and fees be 
paid in order for the subject Conditional Use Permit to take effect.   
17. All Federal, State, and Summit County permits shall remain current. 
18. The applicant shall obtain a Summit County Business License. 
19. Upon renewal of the Business License each year, the applicant must show that all 
appropriate permits from State or Federal agencies are current. 
20. The number of trees shall be limited to the number of available wet water as per the 
Division of Water Rights calculations found in Exhibit A. 
21. The applicant shall follow the reclamation plan as approved by the Summit County 
Engineer, Summit County Storm Water Division, and as required by Summit County 
Ordinance 381 (as amended).  
22. The greenhouse within the existing home shall not be used as part of the proposed 
Conditional Use Permit.  
23. Reclamation shall take place immediately when a particular area has been abandoned 
for the proposed uses outlined in Exhibit A. 
24. Prior to commencement of operations a bond with the Engineering Department shall be 
placed to assure future reclamation of the site.  
25. The Summit County Engineering Department shall monitor traffic volume coming to and 
from the subject property including, but not limited to use of Brown’s Canyons Road and 
roads between Brown’s Canyon Road and the subject property.  If, in the Summit  
 
18
14 
 
 
 
County Engineering Department’s sole discretion, it determines that traffic volumes are 
such that they negatively impact County roads and/or public infrastructure, the Summit 
County Engineering department may require the applicant to conduct a third-party 
traffic study at the applicant's cost and applicant shall complete, at its sole cost, any 
recommended traffic volume mitigation efforts that stem from the traffic study.   Failure 
to complete a traffic study and/or follow recommendations of the traffic study may be 
deemed a violation of this Conditional Use Permit. 
26. Stormwater; stormwater requirements will adhere to the conditions laid out in Utah 
Multi-Sector General Stormwater Permit #UTRI00289.  
27. Additionally, the Industrial Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) will be 
followed to manage stormwater runoff.  
28. Roads shall be maintained to be free from sediment from the facility as well as at the 
request of the County.  
29. The applicant shall follow the reclamation plan as approved by the Summit County 
Storm Water Division. 
30. The applicant shall also follow the reclamation plan as approved by the State of Utah 
Division of Water Quality. 
31. The applicant shall install an impervious pad with containment borders and a filtration 
system to address run off for the storage and maintenance of vehicles/equipment. 
32. Proper care shall be taken to avoid dumping fuel on the property during fueling of the 
equipment. 
33. The Noxious Weeds Plan as approved by the Summit County Public Works Department 
shall be followed at all times. 
34. The hours of operation shall be limited to Monday through Saturday, 7:30 a.m. to 5:30 
p.m. 
35. Summit County, State, and Federal agencies shall be allowed to inspect the site as 
needed to check for compliance with conditions. 
36. Expansion outside the approved site plan shall require an amendment to this 
Conditional Use Permit.  
37. Prior to commencement of operations, all uses on the property shall be in compliance 
with all applicable Occupational Health Safety Administration (OSHA) safety standards. 
38. All other service provider requirements shall be met. 
39. Non-compliance may result in revocation in whole or in part of the subject Conditional 
Use Permit.  
40. Any installation of exterior lighting shall require a Low Impact Permit. 
 
Public Notice, Meetings and Comments 
  
This item was publicly noticed as a public hearing with possible action by the Eastern Summit 
County Planning Commission.  Notice of the public hearing was published in Summit County 
News. Courtesy postcards were mailed to all property owners within 1,000 feet of the subject 
Parcel. 
 
As of the date of this report, no public comment has been received.   
19
15 
 
  
Attachments  
 
Exhibit A – Proposal 
Exhibit B – Timelapse Aerials (availability based on Google aerials taken) 
Exhibit C – Summit County Code Enforcement Report 
 
20
2024-07-02v04
SS-70-11 Mimbach Co / Spoil to Soil Operation Plan
Mimbach Co is a USDA registered farm(Farm# 769 Tract# 1182), licensed
Nursery with the Utah department of Agriculture, with a green waste
facility(DEQ License #A-134293) as a means to make materials to be used
for the farm. Mimbach Co accepts greenwaste and process’ incoming
materials(for example; compostable materials, dirt, rocks), uses the
materials for the farm/Nursery and resells materials not directly used by the
farm/Nursery. Products sold are compost, topsoil, fill, soil amendments,
salt, firewood, wood chips, critical infrastructure materials, rocks, trees, and
other like materials.
This operation will add 6 to 10 employees in Summit County. There is a
restroom and breakroom on site. Normal hours of operation are Monday -
Saturday 7:30AM - 5:30PM.
The goal is to decrease traffic in the county by taking incoming materials
and having completed materials leave on the same vehicle whenever
possible.
Our plan is based upon helping make Summit County a better place
through landfill diversion, environmentally positive activities, and
greenhouse gas reduction. Our farm helps beautify Summit County in an
environmentally friendly way.
This parcel is located in Browns Canyon.
This Parcel is zoned AG-80.
All uses are allowed or allowed with a CUP .
This parcel is a registered USDA Farm# 769 Tract# 1182.
This parcel shares a border with a rock quarry.
There are no homes or cabins located outside this parcel within 1+ miles of
this parcel.
Uses;
Principal Use Agricultural: Orchard and Tree Farm / Nursery
1. The principal purpose of this parcel is agricultural. Its farming operations will be an
orchard, Nursery / tree farm, and general produce production. It is anticipated to have
10,000 trees on the farm. The green waste recycled will be first and foremost used for
the ag products grown on the property. When the farm is fully operational agricultural
EXHIBIT A.1
21
activities will make up 80% or more of the use and gross revenue for the parcel. The
principal use of this property is agricultural. Trees being planted are to name a few are
canada red chokecherry, arborvitae, honey crisp apple, aspen, colorado blue spruce,
and others. The next set of trees will be planted in the fall of 2024. Starting with the fall
planting we are planning to only rotate a small % each year. This is estimated to be 20%
or less. Our first set of trees were planted in 2020 and sold ½ in the fall of 2021 and the
rest sold through 2023. The first batch of trees were several species of conifers.
2. Fill area; The area being filled on the property was made uneven over thousands of
years from water and geology, it is being filled to create more usable agricultural areas.
No filling of areas beyond original grades will occur. Only standard compactable type fill
is being used. This fill area is being used to create usable space for the orchard,
gardens, and trees.
No asphalt, metals, or other non compact-able materials are accepted or used as fill.
We do not accept any fill from any areas that have had active mining operations, tailings
storage, or are known to have any contamination. We document the source of all
incoming materials normally this would be a lot number, address, and job name.
Example; all of the prospector area is an off limits area, we do not accept materials from
those types of areas ever. Fill and topsoil we accept are from areas like Promontory
which are mostly undisturbed.
Recycle Facility II
1. Composting; Accept and process compostable materials (no hazardous chemicals are
accepted). This includes material intake, processing, sorting, grinding, composting,
turning, screening, splitting, packaging, loading, mixing, selling, moving, testing, taking
temperature readings, taking moisture readings, documentation of the facility intake,
compost data logs, and outbound logs. Materials processed come from but are not
limited to the following; government, public utilities, resorts, restaurants, the general
public, farmers, ranchers, and commercial contractors. Controlled burns will be limited
to 3 per year and be done in accordance with county agricultural regulations. This is
done for wood materials that cannot go through the grinder and cant be processed into
other materials and is added to the compost windrows for biological processing for
compost and as an amendment.
We have an onsite lab where we test and analyze the biological components of the
compost, topsoil, and other products we process. We are actively involved in becoming
certified for advanced lab testing.
2. The public is welcome to bring other recyclable materials that will be stored in containers
until they are sent off to a processor. These materials could be glass, plastic, and other
recyclable materials. All materials will be stored for short durations and never exceed 1
year. The material will be stored in appropriate containers. All of these recyclable
materials are transported to and handled by appropriate processors to ensure an
EXHIBIT A.2
22
environmentally correct solution for them. All of these activities end up making a
substantial impact in the amount of material being diverted from the landfill. This helps
Summit County landfill resources go further. This entire section is added for non-profit
use and it is not a critical part of farm operations. This will be stored in 30 yard
containers or smaller. These containers if ever used would be located by the office area.
3. Critical infrastructure type materials will be made from incoming materials only. This is
for internal farm use and to sell the remainder to the public through the nursery bulk
yard.
Contractors Yard
Mimbach Co the farm and other companies, for example recycling companies, may store
vehicles, equipment, and materials, such as glass, to centralize and minimize traffic and
pollution. All materials will be stored for short durations and never exceed 1 year. No onsite
processing will be done, and it will be stored then transported to the processing facility offsite.
There will be no fluid storage in this area. Only equipment like trailers, skidsteers, trucks,
excavation equipment, landscaping equipment, tractors, will be stored in this area. This area is
less than 2 acres in size. This area will have screening to help block the view from public
roadways.
Nightly Rental
On the property is a residence that has a short term rental license through summit county, it is
attached to this document. There is currently a 2 night minimum required to use the rental.
For safety concerns we have met with the sheriff and gone over a safety plan, installed berms,
and added a dedicated entrance to make sure no one can come in contact with any farm
operations. The nightly rental has a greenhouse attached that is used for agritourism for guests
who stay.
Farm Details
1. Currently 10,000 trees are planned to be in the north part of the tree farm area. This is
estimated to take 5 years to get all trees on property and ⅓ of the trees are anticipated
to be rotated every year. An apple orchard is planned for the south side of the tree farm
area. The orchard is permanent. The orchard is for production of produce.
2. The soil amendments needed to grow the produce and the trees will be mostly created
with materials diverted from the landfill.
3. Additional water rights have been acquired and a well is onsite with sufficient capacity for
the needs of the property. No spray irrigation methods will be used, only drip irrigation at
each tree will be used in conjunction with specialty products to decrease water usage by
up to 90% for trees. All water usage is calculated to ensure water usage does not
exceed water rights owned.
4. A fall harvest activity will be planned each fall for community outreach and education.
EXHIBIT A.3
23
5. A community garden will be part of the yearly community outreach programs and
education.
6. The farm will produce various specialed crops from year to year also. For example
gourmet mushrooms and greens.
7. Water usage; water rights have been acquired. With the use of the tree tpee, after
working with Johnny at tree tpee he estimated that an average water usage of about 4
gallons per week per tree based on past projects in this climate zone, this is using a
direct drip line per tree, which at 10,000 trees is 40,000 gallons per week. Would be
around 3.69 acre feet per year. Additional water rights are in process of being acquired
to handle additional trees. Our water rights have been sourced from the weber river
water users association attached.
8. Compostable cups etc; we will be installing a berm around the composting area to keep
objects from blowing around. All materials taken in for composting are
9. Chicken and duck eggs are sold to the public from chickens and ducks that are raised
and kept onsite cagefree.
10. Seed starts for trees will be done in an existing shed on the property.
Operational Details
1. Restroom; There will be an accessible bathroom facility.
2. Snow will be primarily stored at the south side of the parcel by the retention pond already
in place. This is so any debris will be caught in the retention pond and be cleaned
periodically.
3. Equipment storage will be done in areas that are protected by earth berms or fencing, on
bedrock or compacted fill areas. All equipment will be inspected daily for safety or
maintenance issues. Any equipment with issues will be pulled from service until safe
and in good working order.
4. Repair of equipment is done in the garage onsite with a concrete floor and all oils and
greases are collected and dropped off offsite at an appropriate location that accepts
those materials and handles them in accordance with state and federal guidelines. The
garage has a 16’ wide and 16’ tall door, all tractors and equipment fit inside the garage.
5. Safety training will be conducted monthly, HI-VIS vests and 2 way radios are required of
all staff. OSHA safety standards are adhered to and safety training logs and best
practice documentation are kept onsite.
EXHIBIT A.4
24
4. Extensive efforts have been made and will continue to be put towards additional
screening of the operation from public view. Earth berms have been established and
they will be seeded with Native Seed mix and have trees planted when completed.
Berms are worked on a regular basis, constriction of berms will be finished at the
completion of correction of washed out areas and full planting of all trees. Estimated at 3
years or less.
5. Gates; there will be gates at all entrances. based on times and use at least one gate
will be open at a time during business hours. The gates do not affect any right of ways.
The gates are for this parcel access only.
6. Storm water goes to an existing retention pond with a 12” pipe that is raised to ensure
debris can settle out. This will be cleaned on a regular basis. A stormwater detail is
attached. Proper permitting is part of this process.
7. With snow being a major issue in the Park City area of Summit County snow hauloff is
accepted and put by the retention pond to ensure any debris and sediment are caught.
We have put thought and effort into helping the needs of the county and putting the
environment first by having a retention pond to ensure containment of any materials
brought in with snow. The retention pond is cleaned as needed but a minimum of spring
and fall.
8. A road sweeper is used to control road dust and mud. The unit purchased holds the
material instead of discharging it off the road.This unit has already been purchased and
is in use.
9. Weed Control is done based on the plan attached and approved by the Summit County
Weed Department.
EXHIBIT A.5
25
EXHIBIT A.6
26
EXHIBIT A.7
27
EXHIBIT A.8
28
Mimbach Co
Tree Farm Fill Area Drainage Design
Total Agricultural Fill Area =11 Acres
Time ofConcentration =38.2753 (mins)
Pre-development
Runoffcoefficientb type soils slope >6%=.21
Peak Discharge 100 Year (CFS) =3.9732
Total volume for Time ofconcentration event(Cubic Feet) =9,124.525
Post-development
Runoffcoefficientb type soils slope 2-6%=.15
Peak Discharge 100 Year (CFS) =2.838
Total volume for Time ofconcentration event(Cubic Feet) =6,517.518
Detention Pond Data
Capacity(cubic feet) =10,400
TSS=15%Dry Retention Pond
EXHIBIT A.9
29
2024-07-02v05
Mimbach Tree Farm Water Worksheet
This worksheet will go over the water usage on the property for the use of growing
trees.
Trees will have a tree t pee device or similar, drip irrigation per tree, have all exposed
dirt covered in wood chips to minimize water use.
The current memorandum of decision from the State Engineer demonstrates that water
rights currently on the property will handle trees up to 2542 trees and additional water
rights already owned but going through an exchange process will handle the full scope
of the project.
Trees are to be planted in berms that are spaced approximately 15 ft apart so tractors
and other equipment can safely operate and efficiently be used to work with the berm,
irrigation, and trees. We calculate a max of approximately 8600 trees given our current
proposed layout across the 11 acres.
Current irrigation rights .1833 acre or .55 acre-feet of water
1 (one) acre = 43,560 sq ft
.1833 acre = 7,984.548 sq ft
In the tree farm the trees will be mostly started from seeds. The beginning containers
have a diameter of 3.75” and an area of .0767 sq ft and the largest containers used are
7 gallon with a top diameter of 12.75” and an area of .8866 sq ft.
(π(3.75/2)²)/12=.0767
(π(12.75/2)²)/12=.8866
For the sake of ensuring we don't use more water than allocated we will upsize the size
to 2’ diameter for our math to ensure we are erroring on the side of caution for water
use.
For the current memorandum we have a max capacity of 2542 trees
7984.548/3.14=2542.849
The additional water rights already owned will allow up to; 9,248 trees.
43,560(sq ft of 1 acre) * (2 acre-feet of water shares / 3 acre-feet of water per acre) /
3.14(sq ft) = 9,248.407
Total Trees able to be planted withownedwater rights = 11,790
9248+2542=11790
EXHIBIT A.10
30
EXHIBIT A.11
31
EXHIBIT A.12
32
EXHIBIT A.13
33
EXHIBIT A.14
34
EXHIBIT A.15
35
From: Kylee Mimbach
To: Amir Caus
Subject: Fwd: Utah Multi-Sector General Permit (MSGP) Authorization for - Mimbach Co, UPDES Number: UTRI00289
Date: Tuesday, June 11, 2024 4:48:38 PM
Attachments: noname
You don't often get email from kylee@mimbach.com. Learn why this is important
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: <no-reply@epacdx.net>
Date: Tue, Jun 11, 2024 at 4:24 PM
Subject: Utah Multi-Sector General Permit (MSGP) Authorization for - Mimbach Co, UPDES
Number: UTRI00289
To: 
STATE OF UTAH, DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY, DIVISION OF WATER QUALITY
195 North 1950 West, P.O. Box 144870 Salt Lake City, Utah 84114-4870 (801)-536-4300
Authorization to Discharge under the
NPDES Electronic Reporting Tool (NeT) MSGP
The Utah Division of Water Quality (DWQ) is in receipt of the Notice of Intent (NOI)
requesting coverage for Mimbach Co, 7550 Lower Bowl Rd, Peoa, UT 84061 under the
NPDES Electronic Reporting Tool (NeT). As of 06/11/2024, this facility is authorized to
discharge storm water, provided that all discharges are in compliance with the requirements of
the current MSGP. This includes development and implementation of a storm water pollution
prevention plan, conducting self-inspections, training, visual assessments of discharges, and
potentially monitoring. Please keep a copy of this Authorization to Discharge on site with your
NOI.
An annual fee is required each calendar year to maintain coverage. If the fee is paid and the
facility complies with the permit terms, then the coverage will remain effective until
12/31/2028. At that time the NOI will need to be re-certified and a new Authorization to
Discharge will be issued.
Your electronic signature on the NOI form certifies that you have read, understood, and are
implementing all of the applicable requirements. An important aspect of this certification
requires that you have correctly determined whether you are eligible for coverage under this
permit. This authorization does not represent a determination by DWQ regarding the validity
of the information provided on the NOI. A copy of the NOI submission can be downloaded at
this link: https://npdes-ereporting.epa.gov/net-
msgp/api/public/v1/form/878088/attachment/zip.
Site Details
UPDES Permit Number: UTRI00289
EXHIBIT A.16
36
Facility Name: Mimbach Co
Facility Address: 7550 Lower Bowl Rd, Peoa, UT 84061
Effective Date: 06/11/2024
Expiration Date: 12/31/2028
EXHIBIT A.17
37
Page 1 of 3
EXHIBIT A.18
38
Page 2 of 3
EXHIBIT A.19
39
Page 3 of 3
EXHIBIT A.20
40
EXHIBIT A.21
41
EXHIBIT A.22
42
EXHIBIT A.23
43
EXHIBIT A.24
44
EXHIBIT A.25
45
EXHIBIT A.26
46
EXHIBIT A.27
47
EXHIBIT A.28
48
EXHIBIT A.29
49
EXHIBIT A.30
50
EXHIBIT A.31
51
EXHIBIT A.32
52
EXHIBIT A.33
53
EXHIBIT A.34
54
EXHIBIT A.35
55
EXHIBIT A.36
56
EXHIBIT A.37
57
EXHIBIT A.38
58
EXHIBIT A.39
59
EXHIBIT A.40
60
EXHIBIT A.41
61
EXHIBIT A.42
62
EXHIBIT A.43
63
EXHIBIT A.44
64
EXHIBIT A.45
65
EXHIBIT A.46
66
EXHIBIT A.47
67
EXHIBIT A.48
68
EXHIBIT A.49
69
EXHIBIT A.50
70
EXHIBIT A.51
71
EXHIBIT A.52
72
EXHIBIT A.53
73
EXHIBIT A.54
74
June 2017 Legend    
Browns Canyon Lodge
400 ft
N➤➤
N
EXHIBIT B.1
75
November 2021 Legend    
Browns Canyon Lodge
400 ft
N➤➤
N
Image © 2024 Maxar T echnologies
Image © 2024 Maxar T echnologies
Image © 2024 Maxar T echnologies
EXHIBIT B.2 76
October 2022 Legend    
Browns Canyon Lodge
400 ft
N➤➤
N
EXHIBIT B.3
77
July 2023 Legend    
Browns Canyon Lodge
400 ft
N➤➤
N
Image © 2024 Airbus
Image © 2024 Airbus
Image © 2024 Airbus
EXHIBIT B.4 78
Case Report 
Complaint #: CO-22045 
Case#: C23050/C23031 
Code Enforcement Officers, Zachary Jones and Tommy James 
Address: 7750 W. lower Bowl Rd, Peoa, Utah 84055  
Parcel #: SS-70-11 
Complaint: Residential (Private) Property:  
Date Submitted: 06/13/2024. 
Origin of Complaint: Public  
Complaint/Initial Investigation: Since approximately September of 2023, Code Enforcement Officers 
Zachary Jones and Tom James have received several complaints over the phone that Micheal Mibach 
operating a soil recycling business “Spoil to Soil Green Waste Facility” without a Conditional Use 
permit (CUP) at the property located at 7750 W. Lower Bowl Rd. Peoa, Utah, 84055. 
County Engineering Department for the excavation and that he would require a Conditional Use 
Permit from the Community Development Department to operate a soil recycling business on the 
property.   
Action Taken: 
On approximately 09/18/2024, Officers James and Jones confirmed Mr. Mibach had not obtained or 
submitted any applications to Summit County for the “Spoil to Soil business.         
On 09/20/2023 Code Enforcement Officer Zachary Jones delivered a Notice of Violation to Micheal 
Mibach for Operating a soil recycling business “Spoil to Soil Green Waste Facility” without a 
Conditional use Permit under Eastern Summit County Development Code:11-3-16. Rock quarries, 
gravel pits, and associated surface mining uses, including, but not limited to filtering, sifting, and 
processing of soil requires a CUP. Officer Jones advised Mr. Mibach to arrange a meeting with a 
Summit County Planner to start the application process to obtain his CUP.  
On 09/26/2023, Summit County Planners Ray Milliner, Amir Caus and Officer Jones met with Mr. 
Mibach regarding the requirements and process of obtaining a CUP from Summit County for his 
business. Mr. Mibach indicated he was very eager to work with Summit County Planners and would 
complete the CUP application in a timely manner.   
However, as of 04/02/024, Summit County Planners advised Officers Jones and James that Mr. 
Mibach had failed to provide the required information necessary for his CUP application. Mr. Mibach 
was advised during the first meeting, as well as on several other occasions by Summit County Code 
Enforcement and other Summit County Personell he was required to obtain permits from the Summit 
County Engineering Department to continue to operate on a limited basis. However, Mr. Mibach 
continued to operate the business in full capacity with disregard to Summit County Codes and 
regulations.        
Based on numerous complaints from various business owners located within the surrounding area, 
Code Enforcement Officers observations, and Mr. Mibachs failure to comply/complete the CUP 
application process a second NOV was delivered to Mr. Mibach on 04/02/2024. The NOV was also 
sent via U.S. Postal Service Certified Mail to the listed property owner Troy Long Enterprises at 770 
W. Alan Point Circle, Draper Utah.   
EXHIBIT C.1
79
From the date the second NOV was issued on 04/02/2024, until 06/11/2024, Officers Jones and James 
conducted periodic surveillance of Mr. Mibach’s operations.  Survillance observations indicated that Mr. 
Mibach continued to operate the business despite the NOV’s issued by Summit County .  
On 06/11/2024, Officers James and Jones delivered a Stop Work Notice to Mr. Mibach at the property 
located at 7750 W. Lower Bowl Rd, Peoa, UT.  
On 06/20/204, Dan Myers provided Officer James with video footage from March 2024, until 
06/20/2024. The footage  
Zachary Jones 
Code Enforcement Office 
Summit County, Utah 
EXHIBIT C.2
80
CODE	ENFORCEMENT
NOTICE	OF	VIOLATION
Address	or	Location	of	Violations:	7756	Lower	Bowl	Road,	Peoa,	Utah	84061
Parcel	#:	SS-70-14
Date	and	Time	of	Violations:	09-20-2023
Violations:
Operating	a	Soil	Recycling	business	"Spoil	to	Soil	Green	Waste	Facility"	without	a	Conditional
Use	Permit	as	required	under	the	Eastern	Summit	county	Development	Code:	11-3-16.	Rock
quarries,	gravel	pits,	and	associated	surface	mining	uses,	including,	but	not	limited	to
filtering,	sifting,	and	processing	of	soil	require	a	Summit	county	Conditional	use	permit.
Construction	and	Business:	Does	Not	Meet	Zoning	Requirements
Description	of	Violations:
Refer	to	Previous	description
Remedial	Action(s)	Required:
Stop	work	related	to	Soil	to	Spoil-Green	Waste	Facility
Remove	all	soil	processing	equipment,	excavation	equipment,	trucks,	trailers	and	employee	vehicles.
Violation	must	be	corrected	by:	10-20-2023
Inspection:
An	inspection	is	required	to	consider	the	referenced	violation(s)	resolved.	It	is	the	duty	of	the
responsible	person	to	request	an	inspection	once	the	violation(s)	have	been	corrected.	Failure	to	request
an	inspection	is	considered	evidence	that	the	property	is	still	in	violation.
If	you	fail	to	correct	and	cure	the	violations	within	the	time	specified	above,	you	may	be	subject	to	civil	fees
in	the	amount	of	$500.00/day,	immediately	upon	expiration	of	the	date	to	correct	the	violation	until	the
violation	is	corrected.	This	notice	is	effective	for	12	months,	and	if	any	subsequent	violations	are	found,
civil	fees	shall	accrue	daily	in	the	amount	mentioned	above.
If	you	dispute	the	issuance	of	this	notice,	you	may	request,	within	10	calendar	days	of	service	of	this
notice,	an	Administrative	Code	Enforcement	Hearing	with	the	Office	of	the	Administrative	Law	Judge.	The
request	must	be	in	writing.	Additional	information	including	the	form	to	request	a	hearing	may	be	obtained
from	the	Community	Development	Department	or	downloaded	from	www.summitcounty.org
	Please	submit
the	form	to:
COMMUNITY	DEVELOPMENT	DEPARTMENT
P.O.	BOX	128
COALVILLE,	UT	84017
435-336-3123
If	you	do	not	request	a	hearing	within	10	calendar	days	and	the	above	mentioned	violations	have	not	been
corrected,	you	have	waived	your	right	to	a	hearing	and	this	notice	may	become	a	final	order	from	the
Office	of	the	Administrative	Law	Judge	and	will	be	levied	against	the	responsible	persons(s)	named	on	this
notice.	You	may	be	subject	to	other	legal	remedies	including,	but	not	limited	to,	criminal	prosecution,	civil
fees,	and	cost.
Enforcement	Officer:	Zachary	Jones
Issuing	Department:	CDD Date	Issued:	September	20,	2023
Case	#:	C23050
Responsible	Person(s):	SR3	Resources/Mibach	Company	111	E.
Broadway	STE	900	Salt	Lake	City,	UT	84111
Phone:	(435)226-4800
EXHIBIT C.3
81
Department:	CDD Date	Issued:	September	20,	2023
Method	of	Service:	Sent	via	Certified	Mail	to	property	owners
listed	address.	Posted/hand	delivered	to	the	property	at	7756
Lower	Bowl	Road,	Peoa,	Utah	84061
Date	of	Service:	0
Engineering
435-336-3250
Code	Enforcement	Office
PO	BOX	128
Coalville,	UT	84017
Community	Development
435-336-3125
EXHIBIT C.4
82
CODE	ENFORCEMENT
NOTICE	OF	VIOLATION
Address	or	Location	of	Violation:	7750	W	Lower	Bowl	Rd,	Peoa,	Utah	84055
Parcel	#:	SS-70-11
Date	and	Time	of	Violation:	01/01/2024	-	Present
Violation:
Operating	a	construction	waste	receiving	and	recycling	facility	without	proper	permitting
Description	of	Violation:
Operating	a	construction	waste	receiving	and	recycling	center	(
Operating	a	construction	waste	receiving	and	recycling	facility	(dirt,	rock,	concrete,	asphalt,	and	green
waste)	without	a	permit
Remedial	Action(s)	Required:
Stop	receiving	all	material	immediately.	This	includes	but	is	not	limited	to	(all	soils,	rock,	concrete,
asphalt,	and	green	waste).Stop	all	sorting,	grading,	and	sales	of	all	materials	immediately.	Obtain	proper
permitting	before	resuming	any	commercial	activity	or	any	of	the	decribed	activities.
Violation	must	be	corrected	by:	When	proper	permitting	is	obtained
Inspection:
An	inspection	is	required	to	consider	the	referenced	violation(s)	resolved.	It	is	the	duty	of	the
responsible	person	to	request	an	inspection	once	the	violation(s)	have	been	corrected.	Failure	to	request
an	inspection	is	considered	evidence	that	the	property	is	still	in	violation.
If	you	fail	to	correct	and	cure	the	violation	within	the	time	specified	above,	you	may	be	subject	to	civil	fees
in	the	amount	of	$500.00/day,	immediately	upon	expiration	of	the	date	to	correct	the	violation	until	the
violation	is	corrected.	This	notice	is	effective	for	12	months,	and	if	any	subsequent	violations	are	found,
civil	fees	shall	accrue	daily	in	the	amount	mentioned	above.
If	you	dispute	the	issuance	of	this	notice,	you	may	request,	within	10	calendar	days	of	service	of	this
notice,	an	Administrative	Code	Enforcement	Hearing	with	the	Office	of	the	Administrative	Law	Judge.	The
request	must	be	in	writing.	Additional	information	including	the	form	to	request	a	hearing	may	be	obtained
from	the	Community	Development	Department	or	downloaded	from	www.summitcounty.org
	Please	submit
the	form	to:
COMMUNITY	DEVELOPMENT	DEPARTMENT
P.O.	BOX	128
COALVILLE,	UT	84017
435-336-3123
If	you	do	not	request	a	hearing	within	10	calendar	days	and	the	above	mentioned	violation	has	not	been
Issuing	Department:	Community	Development Date	Issued:	April	2,	2024
Case	#:	C24074 Permit	#:	N/A
Responsible	Person(s):	Troy	Long	Enterprises,	Inc. Phone:	UNK
EXHIBIT C.5
83
corrected,	you	have	waived	your	right	to	a	hearing	and	this	notice	may	become	a	final	order	from	the
Office	of	the	Administrative	Law	Judge	and	will	be	levied	against	the	responsible	persons(s)	named	on	this
notice.	You	may	be	subject	to	other	legal	remedies	including,	but	not	limited	to,	criminal	prosecution,	civil
fees,	and	cost.
Enforcement	Officer:	Tom	James
Department:	Community	Development Date	Issued:	April	2,	2024
Method	of	Service:	Posted	on	Property	/	Certified	mail Date	of	Service:	04/02/2024
Engineering
435-336-3250
Code	Enforcement	Office
PO	BOX	128
Coalville,	UT	84017
Community	Development
435-336-3125
EXHIBIT C.6
84