1.
Public input items not on the agenda or pending applications.
2.
Continued Public Hearing and Discussion, Cedar Crest Village Overlay application, located in
eastern Hoytsville area, containing approximately 1,085 acres. Applicant: Cedar Crest Village
Overlay Committee with representatives from Ivory Development and Larry H. Miller.
Project #19-111.
Patrick Putt, Community Development Director; Peter Barnes, Planning Director; and Laura
Kuhrmeyer, County Planner. 
3.
**
General Plan Advisory Committee appointments.
**
**AMENDED** 
AGENDA 
EASTERN SUMMIT COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION 
Thursday, May 16, 2024
NOTICE is hereby given that the Eastern Summit County Planning Commission will meet
electronically, via Zoom, and at the anchor location of
Ledges Event Center - Auditorium
202 East Park Road, Coalville, Utah 84017
(All times listed are general in nature, and are subject to change by the Board Chair)
 
You may attend in person or
 
Join Zoom webinar:
https://summitcountyut.zoom.us/j/99249026124
OR 
To listen by phone only: Dial 1-301-715-8592, 
or 1-253-215-8782, Webinar ID: 992 4902 6124
 
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
 
 
Cedar Crest Staff Report 5.16.24
Exhibit A: Revised Draft Ordinance 4.26.2024
Exhibit B: Applicable Code Standards
Exhibit C: Density Comparison
Exhibit D: Updated Traffic Study
Exhibit E: Cedar Crest Traffic Study Memo
 
Commission Items
Director Items
Adjourn
To view staff reports available at the end of the Friday before the meeting please visit
www.summitcounty.org.
Individuals needing special accommodations pursuant to the Americans with Disabilities Act regarding this meeting may
contact Vicki Geary, Summit County Community Development Department at (435) 336-3123.
1
AGENDA ITEM NO. 1
Staff Report
 
 
DATE:
May 16, 2024
SUBMITTED BY:
Vicki Geary, Planning
ITEM TYPE:
Discussion
AGENDA SECTION:
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
SUBJECT:
Public input items not on the agenda or pending applications.
SUGGESTED ACTION:
ESTIMATED TIME:
INTRODUCTION:
BACKGROUND:
CONCLUSION:
 
 
 
EASTERN SUMMIT COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION 
AGENDA ITEM REPORT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENTS:
2
AGENDA ITEM NO. 2
Staff Report
 
 
DATE:
May 16, 2024
SUBMITTED BY:
Laura Kuhrmeyer, Community Development
ITEM TYPE:
Discussion
AGENDA SECTION:
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
SUBJECT:
Continued Public Hearing and Discussion, Cedar Crest Village Overlay
application, located in eastern Hoytsville area, containing
approximately 1,085 acres. Applicant: Cedar Crest Village Overlay
Committee with representatives from Ivory Development and Larry
H. Miller. Project #19-111.
Patrick Putt, Community Development Director; Peter Barnes,
Planning Director; and Laura Kuhrmeyer, County Planner. 
SUGGESTED ACTION:
ESTIMATED TIME:
INTRODUCTION:
BACKGROUND:
CONCLUSION:
 
 
 
EASTERN SUMMIT COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION 
AGENDA ITEM REPORT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENTS:
Cedar Crest Staff Report 5.16.24
Exhibit A: Revised Draft Ordinance 4.26.2024
Exhibit B: Applicable Code Standards
Exhibit C: Density Comparison
Exhibit D: Updated Traffic Study
Exhibit E: Cedar Crest Traffic Study Memo
3
 
STAFF REPORT 
To: Eastern Summit County Planning Commission 
From: Patrick Putt, Community Development Director 
 Peter Barnes, Planning Director 
 Laura Kuhrmeyer, County Planner 
Date of Meeting: May 16, 2024 
Type of Item: Cedar Crest Village Overlay Rezone and Master Planned Development  
Process: Legislative Review 
Project Number:  19-111 
 
 
Recommendation 
Staff recommends that the Commission consider the Cedar Crest Village Overlay Rezone and 
Master Planned Development application, conduct a public hearing, and either direct the 
applicant and staff to return with additional information and analysis or direct staff to return 
with draft findings for a recommendation to the Summit County Council. 
 
Project Description 
Project Name: Cedar Crest Village Overlay Rezone and Master Planned 
Development (Hoytsville Area)  
Applicant(s): Thirty (30) Hoytsville area property owners of sixty-seven 
(67) parcels consisting of approximately 1,085 acres 
Location: East Hoytsville, Summit County 
Type of Process: Village Overlay Master Plan and Rezone  
Final Land Use Authority: Summit County Council 
 
Proposal 
The Village Overlay Zone (VOZ) process was approved in 2018. The purpose of this process is to 
incentivize community master planning flexibility and to reestablish and revitalize existing, 
traditionally compact, non-incorporated communities in the County. The uniqueness of the 
Village Overlay Zone is that it is process initiated by local property owners. The property owners 
have a direct voice in the future of their land planning area.  
 
The subject application, Cedar Crest Village Zone (CCVZ), was submitted in April of 2019. On 
September 28, 2023, the Cedar Crest Village Overlay Committee forwarded a positive 
recommendation to the Eastern Summit County Planning Commission. (ESCPC). The ESCPC has 
held several public hearings and work sessions since then.  
 
4
 
The current proposal includes sixty-seven (67) parcels consisting of approximately 1,085 acres, 
which are identified in orange in Figure 1 below. As part of the process, the Applicants were 
asked to consider impacts on surrounding property and ultimately created the Eastern Summit 
County General Plan Area (ESCGPA) which included proposed land uses, transportation, open 
space, trail corridors, and existing constraints. The ESCGPA contains approximately 1,672 acres 
and is outlined in red in Figure 1 below.  
 
Figure 1: Cedar Crest Study Area (CCSA) 
 
 
5
 
The Applicant has included a future land use map (below) that identifies what the proposed 
subzones would be for the entire study area, including both the opted-in parcels and those 
parcels that chose not to opt-in. Should the CCVZ be approved, only the 67 parcels that have 
opted in (shown in darker, more opaque colors in Figure 2 below) would be rezoned. 
Additionally, as explained in the enabling ordinance, the property owners of the 67 parcels may 
continue to own, use and develop land in accordance with existing zoning or may apply to 
obtain a development agreement to govern development in accordance with the CCVZ. The 
parcels within the ESCGPA that have not opted in (shown in lighter, more transparent colors in 
Figure 2 below) would remain as they are currently zoned.  
 
  Figure 2: Future Land Use Map 
 
 
Background 
At the April 18, 2024 work session, the applicant gave a presentation and ESCPC discussed the 
proposed enabling ordinance document, including development standards and the community 
structure plan. 
 
 
6
 
Staff has included a list of the main topics of discussion from the April 18th Work Session: 
• The applicants gave a presentation, going over the draft ordinance in detail. 
• The Commission requested that the applicant consider revising the Accessory 
Dwelling Unit language in the ordinance to require that they be shown on a 
subdivision plat. 
• The Commission suggested reducing the Uses that are identified as Conditional. 
• Staff and the Commission requested the applicant include a matrix to show who the 
final land use authority is for each application type. 
• The Commission requested the ordinance be adjusted for what constitutes a minor 
amendment. 
• The Commission requested the applicant include set limitations on setback 
exceptions. 
• The Commission discussed parking, specifically regarding guest parking. 
 
During the work session on April 18, 2024, Commissioners requested several items be 
provided at the next meeting.  
1. Include an Affordable Housing Component 
2. Provide a Community Benefits Package, also identifying possible impacts on existing 
land uses  
3. Provide input from the County Transportation Department on the updated Traffic Study 
4. Clarify what is being recommended up to the Summit County Council now and what 
would require future review by the ESCPC  
 
The first two items will be addressed by the applicants. Staff has included the following 
information for the second two items.  
 
3. The Summit County Transportation Department has reviewed the updated Traffic 
Study and provided input, see Exhibit D & E.  
 
4. The current application under review is the Cedar Crest Village Overlay Rezone and 
Master Planned Development. The ESCPC shall provide a recommendation to the 
Summit County Council on the Village Overlay plan, rezone, and draft zoning districts. 
The proposed enabling ordinance would not apply to the entire study area at this 
time, only those parcels that are opted in (orange in Figure 1 above) would be 
rezoned should the CCVZ be approved. If the CCVZ is approved, applicants would then 
be required to submit a project land plan and development agreement. 
 
Analysis 
The Village Overlay (VO) established in the Code, Section 11-3-8, is the process to create a 
new area with its own zoning districts, separate and distinct from the already established 
zones already found in our Code.  As such, the VO process is a legislative process, as opposed 
to an administrative process, because the County, ultimately through its legislative body, the 
Summit County Council, is creating a new set of rules, a new set of zones, and new policy for a 
specific area.   By possibly creating the Cedar Crest VO, the County is creating a new law, 
7
 
which is inherently a legislative act.   
 
Standards from Village Overlay (11-3-8):  
The Village Overlay Committee shall develop a plan and proposed zoning districts that 
address the following: 
 
Table 1: Standards from Village Overlay (11-3-8) 
Standard Proposal 
VO Standard 1 – Land Uses: A mix of 
residential uses may be considered, 
including detached single-family, 
attached single-family, and multi-family. 
Mixed-use land-uses may also be 
considered, including residential, 
commercial, service commercial, and 
light industrial. 
The proposed CCVZ contains a mix of 
residential, commercial, service 
commercial, and light industrial uses. 
The enabling ordinance contemplates 
seven Place Types (listed on the Legend 
in Figure 2 above). Each Place Type has 
a range of uses as identified in Exhibit A. 
VO Standard 2 – Density: A proposed 
zoning district densities shall be based 
upon sufficient access, circulation, 
connectivity, water, and wastewater 
infrastructure. 
The Applicant has studied access, 
circulation, connectivity, water, and 
wastewater infrastructure and proposed 
a base density of four (4) units per one 
(1) acre. Additionally, each Place Type 
has a minimum and maximum density.  
 
Staff has created Exhibit C to compare 
current potential base density. 
VO Standard 3 – Development 
Standards: Requirements for 
development, including but not limited 
to minimum lot sizes, building height, 
setbacks, parking, streets and 
circulation, community/civic space, and 
infrastructure. 
The proposed enabling ordinance 
contains requirements for development 
such as minimum lot sizes, building 
heights, setbacks, parking, streets and 
circulation, community/civic space, and 
infrastructure. See Exhibit A. 
VO Standard 4 – Infrastructure: 
Infrastructure implementation including 
financing and phasing. 
The applicant has stated that they have 
confirmed that there is currently 
enough water to construct 500-800 
residential unit equivalents (RUEs). Any 
proposed development would need to 
be reviewed for compliance with the 
Development Code, including sufficient 
water quality, quantity, and pressure.  
 
The applicant has presented two 
8
 
options for sewer including a new 
system or connecting to/expanding the 
existing sewer system in Coalville.  
 
The applicant has provided a traffic 
study as well as a Utility Infrastructure 
Plan that includes a map of proposed 
major and minor connector roads.  
 
In addition to the above outlined standards from Development Code 11-3-8 Village Overlay, 
Staff has provided a document (Exhibit B) to the Applicant that outlines the standards from 
each applicable Code section. 
 
 
Discussion 
Staff also will seek further discussion on the topic of the housing mix of type and price points. 
Staff asserts that it is within the review authority of the ESCPC to establish a workforce 
housing/attainable housing element to this plan.  
 
Per Development Code 11-3-8, the Eastern Summit County Planning Commission is tasked with 
a review the application and forwarding a recommendation to the County Council. In addition 
to the standard positive or negative recommendation options, the Commission may forward a 
positive recommendation with additional recommendations and/or conditions of approval for 
the Council to review. In other words, the recommendation can come with specific suggested 
direction from the Commission, such as to include, at a minimum, an affordability component, 
and/or an incentive-based framework, to meet the standards set forth in the Development 
Code and demonstrate a public benefit of a substantial increase in development entitlements 
beyond existing base density.  
 
After reviewing the enabling ordinance, Staff requests that the ESCPC either provide direction 
to Staff and the applicants what specific additional information may be needed for review or 
provide Staff direction to begin drafting findings for a recommendation to the Summit County 
Council. 
 
Attachments 
Exhibit A – Revised Draft Ordinance 4.26.24 
Exhibit B – Applicable Codes 
Exhibit C – Density Comparison 
Exhibit D – Updated Traffic Study 
Exhibit E – Cedar Crest Traffic Study Memo 
9
4866-7119-6021 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CEDAR CREST VILLAGE ZONE 
HOYTSVILLE, SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Working Draft 
April 26, 2024 
 
 
10
4866-7119-6021 
 
 
2 
 
I. ENABLING ORDINANCE FOR DEVELOPMENT WITHIN CEDAR CREST VILLAGE 
ZONE1  
11-3-____ ENABLING ORDINANCE FOR CEDAR CREST VILLAGE ZONE 
A. Intent and Purpose: In 2018, the Summit County Council established the Village 
Overlay zoning district for purposes of reestablishing and revitalizing existing, non-
incorporated communities in Eastern Summit County. Pursuant to Eastern Summit County 
Development Code § 11-3-8 (B), property owners near Hoytsville created the Cedar Crest 
study area (CCSA), depicted below: 
 
 
1 NTD:  It is contemplated that at the same meeting the following will be approved by the county council: (i) text 
amendment adopting this ordinance, (ii) map amendment applying the CCVZ to the CCSA, and (iii) amendment to 
general plan referencing the key land plans. 
11
4866-7119-6021 
 
 
3 
 
 
The purpose of the Cedar Crest Village Zone (CCVZ) is to allow flexibility of land use, densities, 
site layout, and project design. Summit County may use the CCVZ process to approve 
development within qualifying CCSA areas.  
The CCVZ is established to promote the following: 
1. Guiding the transition of a portion of a rural mountain river valley community 
from rural to small town while not losing the essence of the place including 
farming/ranching. 
2. Establishing an orderly land use system with a unified plan that organizes 
the efforts of many landowners including a continuity of street networks, open 
space, and critical infrastructure.  
3. Delivering housing types that accommodate a full range of resident life 
cycle, lifestyles, and price points.  
4. Delivering services, uses, and amenities to serve the local needs of the 
residents – and promote and evolve the rural economy. 
5. Enhance quality of life through thoughtful, incremental growth by delivering 
improved access to outdoor amenities.  
6. Promoting alternative modes of transportation, such as transit, pedestrian, 
and bike options including access to Interstate 80. 
The boundaries of the CCSA may change as property owners in the ESCGPA make 
application pursuant to Eastern Summit County Development Code § 11-3-8 (B) to 
have additional properties included within the CCSA.  Initially, the CCVZ applies to 
the CCSA within the ESCGPA, as may be later expanded to include all of the 
ESCGPA upon application of individual owners within the ESCGPA.  This CCVZ 
satisfies the requirements under Section 11-3-8(B)(4) requiring a review of each 
project under subsections 11-4-12E and F of this title and each requirement under 
the foregoing subsections will be deemed satisfied and addressed upon approval 
of a project land plan and development agreement for each named project. 
B. Defined Terms:  In addition to the terms defined elsewhere in this title and for 
purposes of this section, the following terms are defined as follows: 
1. Cedar Crest Study Area (CCSA) means the Cedar Crest study area which 
is depicted in the map in Subsection A above. 
2. Cedar Crest Village Zone (CCVZ) means a Cedar Crest Village Zone 
district applied to the ESCGPA, or portions thereof, by the adoption of a zoning 
map amendment by the county council. 
3. Community Structure Plan means the plan designating development 
patterns and configurations for the ESCGPA that is included within the general 
plan, as may be amended from time to time. The community structure plan may 
be amended by the county council, but only after the county council accounts for 
12
4866-7119-6021 
 
 
4 
 
development existing at the time of amendment, including development planned 
in approved project land plans. 
4. Community Use has the meaning as defined in Subsection 1.2(III) of the 
Development Standards. 
5. Design Book means a book prepared by an applicant to guide the design 
and development of uses for a named project that must be submitted to and 
approved by the development review committee. 
6. Development Agreement means an agreement between the County and a 
developer that governs the development of a named project and meets the 
requirements set forth in Section F below. 
7. Development Review Committee means a committee of three individuals 
appointed and governed by the first development agreement approved within the 
ESCGPA and established to review and approve subdivision plats and all other 
development applications within the CCVZ in advance of final land use approval 
by the County. 
8. Eastern Summit County General Plan Area (ESCGPA) means an area of 
approximately 1,672 acres that has been planned for land uses, transportation, 
open space, trail corridors and existing constraints, as depicted in Appendix B. 
9. Hillside Cluster has the meaning as defined in Subsection E(2)(d). 
10. Land Use Application means an application submitted by an applicant that 
is required by the County to subdivide, develop, or construct improvements on land 
within the CCVZ. 
11. Large Commercial has the meaning as defined in Subsection 1.2(VI) of the 
Development Standards. 
12. Light Industrial has the meaning as defined in Subsection 1.2(VII) of the 
Development Standards. 
13. Lot Type means the product type to be constructed on a lot within the 
named project and includes single family, multi-family, community use, mixed use, 
small commercial, large commercial, and light industrial. 
14. Meadow Cluster has the meaning as defined in Subsection E(2)(e). 
15. Mixed-Use has the meaning as defined in Subsection 1.2(IV) of the 
Development Standards. 
16. Multi-Family – Garden has the meaning as defined in Subsection 1.2(A) of 
the Development Standards. 
17. Multi-Family – Tuck-Under has the meaning as defined in Subsection 
1.2(B) of the Development Standards. 
13
4866-7119-6021 
 
 
5 
 
18. Named Project means an area within the ESCGPA identified as a 
development project with an approved development agreement and project land 
plan. 
19. Neighborhood has the meaning as defined in Subsection E(2)(c). 
20. Neighborhood Center has the meaning as defined in Subsection E(2)(b). 
21. Net Average Residential Density means the number of residential dwelling 
units per acre of land after rights-of-way, streets, wetlands (as determined by 
federal law), and public open space are deducted from such acreage. 
22. Parks and Open Space has the meaning as defined in Subsection E(2)(f). 
23. Placetype means an area within a named project that is depicted on a 
project land plan, and is generally consistent with the community structure plan, as 
more particularly described in Subsection E(2), below. 
24. Project Land Plan means an individual development plan for a named 
project as further defined in Subsection E(1), below. 
25. Qualifying Open Space means open space that: (i) is located within the 
boundaries of the CCSA; (ii) is identified on a project land plan, and (iii) has been 
restricted to open space use. 
26. Single Family – Attached has the meaning as defined in Subsection 1.1(A) 
of the Development Standards. 
27. Single Family – Court has the meaning as defined in Subsection 1.1(B) of 
the Development Standards. 
28. Single Family – Estate Lot has the meaning as defined in Subsection 1.1(F) 
B of the Development Standards. 
29. Single Family – Large Lot has the meaning as defined in Subsection 1.1(E) 
of the Development Standards. 
30. Single Family – Medium Lot has the meaning as defined in Subsection 
1.1(D) of the Development Standards. 
31. Single Family – Small Lot has the meaning as defined in Subsection 1.1(C) 
of the Development Standards. 
32. Small Commercial has the meaning as defined in Subsection 1.2(V) of the 
Development Standards. 
33. Village Center has the meaning as defined in Subsection E(2)(a). 
C. Cedar Crest Village Zone.  
The purpose of the CCVZ is to allow flexibility of land use, densities, site layout, and project 
design. Summit County hereby approves the creation of the CCVZ and the application of 
14
4866-7119-6021 
 
 
6 
 
the CCVZ to all lands within the CCSA.  Summit County may apply the CCVZ to other 
specific parcels within the ESCGPA upon receipt of an application to have areas not within 
the CCSA, but included within the ESCGPA, added to the CCSA upon application in 
accordance with Section 11-3-8.  Once the CCVZ is applied to parcels within the ESCGPA 
property owners may continue to own, use and develop land in accordance with existing 
zoning as provided in Subsection D below, or may, under Subsection E below, apply to 
obtain a development agreement, consistent with this section, to govern development in 
accordance with the CCVZ. If a property owner within the ESCGPA elects to develop their 
property in accordance with the CCVZ, then notwithstanding any other provision in the 
Eastern Summit County Development Code, this section shall govern all requirements 
concerning the use and density for the development. Except as set forth in Subsection D 
below, any development according to the CCVZ within the ESCGPA shall be conditioned 
on the county’s approval of a:  
1. development agreement meeting the requirements of Subsection F; and 
2. project land plan meeting the requirements of Subsection E(1) as described 
below.  
D. Existing Uses and Future Agricultural Development . 
1. Existing Uses. A property owner whose property was rezoned from 
Agricultural-5 (AG-5) to the CCVZ pursuant to this ordinance may continue all legal 
non-conforming uses, as defined in Utah Code 17-27a-103(46), that were deemed 
permitted uses under the Agricultural-5 (AG-5) zone and such uses shall be 
considered a permitted use for the owner’s property.  
2. Future Agricultural Development. Notwithstanding Subsection C, a 
development agreement and project land plan is not required for a property owner 
to develop future agricultural development on a conforming parcel. Building permit 
applications for future agricultural development on a conforming parcel shall be 
processed by the county pursuant to chapter 4 of this title. All development within 
the CCVZ except for future agricultural development on a conforming parcel must 
comply with the requirements of this section. 
E. CCVZ Development Requirements.  Development of property according to 
CCVZ may occur only if an applicant satisfies the below requirements.   
1. Project Land Plan.  Applicants must submit a project land plan consistent 
with the community structure plan conceptually depicting the general 
configurations, placetypes, planned densities and uses, open space locations, and 
street connections for the subject area, and show consistency with the uses, 
configurations and densities of the community structure plan.  Each project land 
plan shall include the following elements: 
a. Name of the planned community; 
b. Names, addresses and phone numbers of applicant and owners; 
c. Plan location, acreage, boundary, scale and north arrow; 
15
4866-7119-6021 
 
 
7 
 
d. Locations of placetype designations (neighborhood, village, open 
space, boundaries and acreage); a table showing the number of dwelling 
units, open space acreage, and acreage of the various nonresidential land 
uses; 
e. A master circulation system plan, including a street network, 
pedestrian circulation, bicycle and trail system plans, identification of street 
alignments and right-of-way widths, illustrative cross sections which 
accommodate and specify vehicular, pedestrian and bicycle use in the 
right-of-way.  Pedestrian and bicycle trail systems shall connect 
neighborhoods, villages, schools and open space areas and provide 
linkages to other trail systems in existing or future areas of the CCVZ and 
the County; 
(i) Street types 
(ii) Connectors 
(iii) Highways 
(iv) Lanes 
(v) Segregated use trails, if any (including equestrian, bicycle, 
walking, etc.) 
(vi) Paths 
(vii) Gravel Roads 
(viii) Parking 
f. Existing and proposed waterways and water bodies, major utilities 
and easements, flood boundary, and flood control facilities; 
g. Adjacent parcels, owners and uses; 
h. Topography and significant features  on or adjacent to the property; 
i. Documentation of existing and proposed secondary water rights, 
shares and usage; 
j. Open space plan that provides general description and locations of 
major open space; and 
k. General description and locations of existing and proposed major 
infrastructure 
2. Placetypes.  Included within the project land plan shall be a depiction of 
the approved placetypes. These objectives are achieved by organizing 
development into a community of transportation and open space systems that are 
sensitive to their riverside, freeway, meadow, farm, ranch, hillside, or existing 
development context. Each placetype is built with a range of uses, building types, 
densities and other architectural characteristics, street types, open space, and 
parks. Centers of varying density and intensity are distributed throughout the plan 
to promote opportunities for social interaction, promote transportation choice and 
walkability, and local services. The ESCGPA, as depicted in the community 
structure plan, is organized into various placetypes as follows:   
16
4866-7119-6021 
 
 
8 
 
a. Village Center:  Aggregates the most intense commercial and 
residential land uses to promote the success of businesses and social 
interaction. Such uses include multi-family housing, office, professional 
services, general retail uses, such as grocery stores, and for full-service 
restaurants, retail shops, employment opportunities, service commercial, 
community amenities, such as schools, churches, parks, trails, recreation 
opportunities, public plazas and gathering spaces, and other support uses. 
This placetype may accommodate a maximum net average residential 
density of twenty-five (25) units per acre.  
 
b. Neighborhood Centers: Small distributed clusters of commercial 
and civic uses and services, such as churches, schools, and neighborhood 
commercial uses surrounded by a blend of housing types of varying 
densities. This placetype may accommodate a maximum net average 
residential density of fifteen (15) units per acre.  
 
c. Neighborhoods: Blend of multi-family and single-family housing 
organized around parks and open space. This placetype may 
accommodate a maximum net average residential density of six  (6) units 
per acre.  
 
d. Hillside Clusters : Neighborhoods or Neighborhood Centers are 
located at the top of slopes and adjacent to the tree line that introduce trails 
and parks to the hillside. This is a specific neighborhood type designed to 
establish the limit of development, mediate the wildlands interface, and 
accommodate an increased change in slope. This placetype may 
accommodate a maximum net average residential density of three and one 
tenth (3.1) units per acre. 
  
e. Meadow Clusters: Neighborhoods or Neighborhood Centers are 
located between the freeway and the bench; this placetype softens the 
transition of development from meadow and agricultural land that allows 
open space to transition to the higher intensity neighborhoods. The clusters 
provide access to open space and stream edges that become passive 
community outdoor amenities, such as stream, trails, parks, and 
constructed wetlands. This placetype may accommodate a maximum net 
average residential density of three and two tenths (3.25) units per acre. 
 
f. Parks and Open Space:   Natural or structured placetype creating 
for formal or informal spaces that can include active or passive uses.  
Specific open spaces include the following: 
 
(i) Riparian/Stream/Wetland 
(ii) Meadow  
(iii) Native Hillsides 
(iv) Nature Corridor 
(v) Agriculture 
(vi) Rail-to-Trail Corridor 
(vii) Parkways 
(viii) Trailhead 
17
4866-7119-6021 
 
 
9 
 
(ix) Paseo 
(x) Community Garden 
(xi) Neighborhood Parks 
(xii) Pocket Parks 
3. Hoytsville Road Corridor : The community structure plan identifies an area 
known as the “Hoytsville Road Corridor” that is not a placetype but may be 
developed. The project land plan for development of all or part of the Hoytsville 
Road Corridor must identify the planned density, uses, open space locations, and 
location of driveways leading to Hoytsville Road. The approved, limited, 
conditional, or restricted uses within the Hoytsville Road Corridor are the same as 
those of the Village Center placetype, as identified in the use table in Subsection 
F(3).  
4. Design Book. Applicants must submit a design book to the development 
review committee. Design book elements must be consistent with the community 
structure plan as determined by the development review committee and include 
design requirements for the development of the communities within the CCVZ.  
5. Infrastructure Agreement.  Applicants must annex areas to be subject to 
the CCVZ into the service area of the applicable service district, improvement 
district, or other service provider providing culinary, sewer, and/or other services 
to the area proposed by included within the CCVZ and pay, or arrange for 
satisfactory payment terms, for the extension of infrastructure to and through the 
subject area. An applicant may petition the County to create a Public Infrastructure 
District pursuant to Utah Code § 17D-4-101 et seq or other similar financing 
mechanism or district entity(ies) to facilitate the financing, construction, and 
operation of some or all of the culinary, sewer, transportation and/or other services 
to the area included within the CCVZ 
6. Development Agreement. A development agreement is required for all 
development within the CCVZ. Each project’s development agreement shall 
require that development occur in accordance with the project land plan. Each 
project’s development agreement shall also include provisions on the subjects 
described in Subsection F below. A development agreement and project land plan 
will be evaluated, as a potential legislative action, after consideration by the 
planning commission and then to the county council for approval. Upon approval 
of a development agreement, project land plan, and other requirements of this 
section a project shall be referred to as an “Named Project”. An approved 
development agreement may be amended to include additional property if: (i) the 
additional party and all current parties to the development consent to the 
amendment; (ii) the proposed amendment  to the development agreement 
complies with this chapter with respect to the additional party’s property; and (iii) 
the amendment is reviewed and approved by the county as an administrative act 
or legislative act, as set forth herein. 
F. Additional Provisions for Development Agreement: Each development 
agreement for a named project shall also include provisions requiring the following: 
1. Design Review Process. 
18
4866-7119-6021 
 
 
10 
 
a. Design Book.  Every design book for a named project shall be 
evaluated and approved by the development review committee.   Each 
design book should be evaluated in the context of the community structure 
plan and the first used design book within CCVZ.  
 
b. Subdivision Plats and Other Development Applications.  All 
applications for a subdivision plat, conditional use permit, site plan, or other 
land use application, shall first be submitted to the development review 
committee, for review and recommendation, before being submitted to the 
planning department for further review and action by the applicable land 
use authority. Elements within a proposed subdivision plat or other land 
use application shall conform to the principles and requirements described 
in the named project’s project land plan and comply with the appropriate 
concurrency management provisions of this title, including Section 11-2-3. 
All subdivision plats must contain a plat note in compliance with Section 
11-1-2 regarding rural agriculture protection.  
 
c. Additional Processes. A development agreement may also include 
other procedural provisions to describe the land authority and processes 
for different types of land use applications, but each process must require 
that the development review committee first review and recommend an 
application in advance of further action by the County. 
2. Development Standards.   A development agreement shall include 
development standards based on each of the following: 
a. Lot Requirements: 
 
(i) Lot Dimensions 
(ii) Lot Coverage 
(iii) Building Setbacks 
(iv) Building Materials 
(v) Garage, Parking Lot and Access Placement Standards 
(vi) Entry Locations and Treatments 
 
b. Parks and Open Space: 
 
(i) Principles 
(ii) Landscaping 
(iii) Fencing 
(iv) Lighting 
(v) Outdoor Furniture 
(vi) Trails 
(vii) Drainage 
 
c. Circulation : Circulation standards will be established for each street 
type and trail type with connections established in the overall framework 
plan: 
(i) Principles 
(ii) Landscaping 
19
4866-7119-6021 
 
 
11 
 
(iii) Fencing 
(iv) Lighting 
(v) Outdoor Furniture 
(vi) Signage 
(vii) Drainage 
3. Approved and Restricted Uses.  Only the uses described in this Subsection 
F(3) may be included within the CCVZ.  The use table for each placetype is below. 
Any use not designated as A–Allowed, L–Limited Use (Administrative CUP) or C–
Conditional Use in the use table below is prohibited within the CCVZ unless the 
proposed use is described in a development agreement and approved legislatively. 
The development agreement shall identify, by placetype, the uses allowed for each 
placetype within a named project.  
a. Definitions: In addition to the definitions found elsewhere in this title, 
the following definitions apply to the use table below. 
 
(i) Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU): an attached or detached 
dwelling unit that is identified as appropriate for a lot on a 
subdivision plat and be: 1) less than 1,000 square feet; and 2) 
accessory to but located on the same lot as the primary dwelling 
unit, one-family or dwelling unit, single-family attached.  An ADU 
must contain a living space separate from the primary dwelling that 
includes a separate entrance, kitchen, and bathroom. 
(ii) Detached Garage: A garage with or without an ancillary 
residence above parking that is not connected to the primary 
structure with a conditioned wing. 
(iii) Dwelling Unit, Multifamily: A dwelling unit in a structure with 
four or more dwellings in which units are stacked vertically.  
(iv) Mixed Use: Development that includes a variety of uses that 
are permitted in the zone, and may include multi-family dwelling 
units over retail, office over retail, or dwelling units over office. 
(v) Short-Term Rental: The rental of a dwelling unit or any 
portion thereof for overnight use for less than thirty (30) days, as 
identified as appropriate for this use on a subdivision plat.   
(vi) Out Building: A detached structure that is ancillary to the 
primary structure on a lot but may not be used as a garage. 
(vii) Semi-Detached Garage: A garage with or without an 
ancillary residence above the garage that is connected to the 
primary structure with a condi tioned single-story wing that 
separates the roof forms. 
(viii) Temporary Sales/Leasing Trailer: The placement of a trailer 
on a temporary basis to support the sale of dwelling units to 
perspective purchasers. 
 
 
Use Village Center Neighborhood 
Center 
Neighborhood Hillside 
Cluster 
Meadow 
Cluster 
Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) A A A A A 
Adaptive reuse of a historically significant 
structure 
A A A A A 
Agricultural employee dwelling unit      
20
4866-7119-6021 
 
 
12 
 
Agricultural employee facility for the purpose of 
providing shelter for more than 1 family 
L L L L L 
Agriculture buildings and uses customarily 
associated with traditional "agriculture" 
operations 
A A A A A 
Auto impoundment yard and towing services      
Auto repair, service and detailing L L    
Auto wrecking yard      
Automotive sales L L    
Banks and financial services A A A A A 
Bars, taverns, private clubs C C    
Bed and breakfast inn L L L L L 
Building integrated solar energy system A A A A A 
Butcher, retail      
Car wash A L    
Cemetery A A A A A 
Childcare, commercial A A A A A 
Childcare, in home (4 children or less) A A A A A 
Childcare, family (with 5 - 8 children) A A A A A 
Childcare, family (with 9 - 16 children) A A A A A 
Commercial kennels      
Commercial riding arenas A A A A A 
Commercial stables A A A A A 
Contractor's office A     
Contractor's yard      
Detached Garage A A A A A 
Distillery/microbrewery C C    
Dwelling unit, multifamily A A A A A 
Dwelling unit, one-family A A A A A 
Dwelling unit, single-family attached A A A A A 
Equipment rental, heavy      
Equipment rental, light      
Event center A A    
Food processing, commercial      
Funeral services A A    
Gas and fuel, storage and wholesale      
Gasoline service station with or without 
convenience store 
A A    
Ground mounted solar energy system      
Ground mounted solar energy system, large 
scale 
     
Guest ranches or lodge intended to attract 
visitors/patrons on a daily basis or an 
extended stay 
     
Home occupation A A A A A 
Hospitals A A A A A 
Hotel, motel A A    
Houses of worship including churches and 
other religious institutions 
A A A A A 
Indoor entertainment such as bowling alleys, 
skating rinks, movie theater, performing arts 
center
 
A A    
Industrial uses and operations including 
storage and processing 
A A    
21
4866-7119-6021 
 
 
13 
 
Institutional uses including fire stations, 
private schools and public or quasi-public 
buildings 
A A A A A 
Logging camp      
Manufacturing, custom      
Manufacturing, heavy      
Manufacturing, light A     
Mixed-Use A A A   
Mobile home park      
Mobile home with foundation (see definition of 
"prefabricated home") 
     
Mobile home without foundation that is 
occupied for more than 180 days 
     
Municipal landfill      
Nursery/greenhouse A A A   
Oil wells, natural gas wells and steam wells      
Open space, recreational (motorized) A A    
Open space, recreational (nonmotorized) A A    
Out Buildings A A A A A 
Petroleum refineries      
Professional offices A A C   
Railroad industrial uses including shipping and 
distribution 
     
Recreation and athletic facilities A A A   
Recycling facility, Class I      
Recycling facility, Class II      
Rehearsal or teaching studio for creative, 
performing and/or martial arts with no public 
performances 
A A    
Residential care facilities A A A A A 
Restaurant A A    
Restaurant with drive-through A A    
Retail commercial 
establishments 
A A    
Rock quarries, gravel pits, and associated 
surface mining uses, including, but not limited 
to, filtering, sifting, and processing of soil 
     
Roof mounted solar energy system A A A A A 
Sawmill      
Seasonal plant and agricultural product sales      
Semi-Detached Garage A A A A A 
Sexually oriented businesses      
Shooting ranges, indoor      
Shooting ranges, outdoor      
Short-Term Rental A A A A A 
Telecommunication facilities - nonstealth      
Telecommunication facilities over 45 feet in 
height 
     
Telecommunications facilities - stealth (up to 
45 feet in height) 
C C    
Temporary Sales/Leasing Trailer A A A A A 
Underground transmission lines 
exceeding 6 inches in diameter that are not 
considered hazardous liquids or materials 
transmission pipelines
 
     
22
4866-7119-6021 
 
 
14 
 
Underground 
transmission lines exceeding 12 inches 
diameter (including but not limited to gas, oil and 
water)
 
     
Utility structures and related facilities C C C C C 
Utility towers and associated transmission 
and distribution lines 45 feet in height or less 
     
Utility towers and associated transmission 
and distribution lines greater than 45 feet in 
height
 
     
Veterinarian clinic A A A A A 
Warehousing and commercial storage A     
Water and wastewater treatment plant A     
Welding shop, commercial      
Wind power generation facilities 45 feet in height 
and less 
     
Wind power generation facilities greater than 45 
feet in height 
     
4. Lot Types. The lot types permitted in each placetype are identified below 
and the lot types in each named project shall be identified in each development 
agreement.  
a. Village Center 
 
(i) Single Family – Attached  
(ii) Single Family – Court  
(iii) Single Family – Small Lot  
(iv) Single Family – Medium Lot  
(v) Multi-Family – Garden  
(vi) Multi-Family – Tuck-Under  
(vii) Community Use  
(viii) Mixed Use 
(ix) Small Commercial 
(x) Large Commercial 
(xi) Light Industrial
2 
 
b. Neighborhood Centers 
 
(i) Single Family – Attached  
(ii) Single Family – Court  
(iii) Single Family – Small Lot  
(iv) Single Family – Medium Lot  
(v) Multi-Family – Garden  
(vi) Multi-Family – Tuck-Under  
(vii) Community Use 
(viii) Mixed Use 
(ix) Small Commercial 
(x) Large Commercial 
(xi) Light Industrial 
 
2 NTD:  add to definitions section. 
23
4866-7119-6021 
 
 
15 
 
 
c. Neighborhoods 
 
(i) Single Family – Attached  
(ii) Single Family – Court  
(iii) Single Family – Small Lot  
(iv) Single Family – Medium Lot  
(v) Single Family – Large Lot 
(vi) Single Family – Estate Lot 
(vii) Multi-Family – Garden 
(viii) Multi-Family – Tuck-Under 
(ix) Community Use 
(x) Mixed Use 
(xi) Small Commercial 
 
d. Hillside Clusters 
 
(i) Single Family – Attached  
(ii) Single Family – Court  
(iii) Single Family – Small Lot  
(iv) Single Family – Medium Lot  
(v) Single Family – Large Lot 
(vi) Single Family – Estate Lot 
(vii) Multi-Family – Garden 
(viii) Multi-Family – Tuck-Under 
(ix) Community Use 
 
e. Meadow Clusters 
 
(i) Single Family – Attached  
(ii) Single Family – Court  
(iii) Single Family – Small Lot  
(iv) Single Family – Medium Lot  
(v) Single Family – Large Lot 
(vi) Single Family – Estate Lot 
(vii) Multi-Family – Garden 
(viii) Multi-Family – Tuck-Under 
(ix) Community Use 
5. Affordable Housing. The terms for providing affordable housing, including 
the number or percentage of units, within the Named Project.  
 
G. Base Density/Transfer of Density:   
1. The following definitions apply to this Subsection (G):  
a. Development Right means the right to construct a residential 
dwelling unit on land, determined by calculating the number of acres by the 
base density set forth in Subsection G(2) herein. 
24
4866-7119-6021 
 
 
16 
 
  
b. Maximum Placetype Density means the maximum number of 
residential dwelling units that can be constructed in a placetype, which 
number is calculated by multiplying the number of acres within each 
placetype by the maximum net average residential density for the 
applicable placetype. By way of example only, if the Village Center was 
comprised of 10 acres, then the maximum placetype development rights 
for the Village Center would be 250 units. 
 
c. Receiving Placetype means an area within a project land plan 
designated as a Village Center, Neighborhood Center, Neighborhood, or 
Hoytsville Road whose minimum density is more than base density 
described in Subsection G(2) below, thus necessitating a transfer of 
development right to achieve the minimum density for development. 
 
d. Sending Area means an area within the ESCGPA where the base 
density is calculated and transferred to a receiving placetype upon 
confirmation of the transfer in accordance with Subsection G(5) below. 
2. Base Density.  The overall base density in the ESCGPA is 4 residential 
dwelling units per acre, exclusive of any ADUs.  
3. Non-Residential Density.  The range of anticipated nonresidential density 
shall be confirmed and described in eac h development agreement for a named 
project. 
4. Maximum Density. The maximum net average residential density is 
determined by each placetype as contemplated in Subsection E(2) above.  
5. Minimum Density.  Unless otherwise set forth in an approved Project Land 
Plan, the minimum density for any development within the following placetypes 
must be within thirty percent (30%) of the maximum net average residential density 
for such placetype:  Village Center, Neighborhood Center, and Neighborhood.  
Projects within the placetypes described in the preceding sentence must meet the 
minimum density described herein through the transfer of development right as set 
forth below. 
6. Transfer of Development Right.  Greater densities can be achieved through 
a development right transfer from areas within the ESCGPA to a particular parcel 
within a placetype identified in a project land plan. Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 
17-27a-509.7, each placetype within the ESCGPA is hereby designated as a 
receiving zone and is referred to herein as "receiving placetype", as applicable.  All 
area within the ESCGPA is designated as a sending zone and is referred to as a 
“sending area”, as applicable. To effect a transfer of a development right to a 
placetype a notice must be delivered to the community development director 
together with a description of the area to receive the development right, and a 
proposed form of restrictive covenant, plat restriction or deed restriction to be 
recorded against the parcel or area that is operating as the sending area.   Upon 
approval of the form of deed, plat or covenant restriction for the sending area, and 
confirmation by the community development director that the calculation is correct 
for the receiving placetype, the transfer of a development right shall be effected 
25
4866-7119-6021 
 
 
17 
 
through the recording of a notice of transfer and reference to the deed, plat or 
covenant restriction for the sending area, and a similar recorded notice confirming 
the transfer of the development right to the receiving placetype. A transfer of a 
development right to any receiving placetype may not exceed the maximum 
placetype density exclusive of any ADUs. The County planning department shall 
retain records of every transfer of a development right within the ESCGPA, which 
must in each instance relate to a notice recorded with the Summit County 
Recorder.  No placetype may act as a receiving placetype until a project land plan 
for a named project is approved for the receiving placetype.  
H. Application Review Procedures; Amendments.  
1. Land Use Application Review: After the approval of a development 
agreement for a named project, all land use applications within the CCVZ, for the 
named project, shall be submitted and reviewed as follows: 
a. A land use application must be submitted to the development 
review committee for preliminary review. Upon receipt of a complete land 
use application, the development review committee shall review the land 
use application and make a recommendation to the community 
development director whether to approve or deny the land use application. 
The development review committee shall forward the land use application 
to the community development director with its recommendation. 
 
b. Upon receiving a recommendation and land use application from 
the development review committee, the community development director 
or their designee shall review the land use application and shall: (a) 
approve the land use application (with or without conditions); (b) deny the 
land use application; or (c) refer the land use application to the planning 
commission for review and decision. If the community development director 
refers a land use application to the planning commission, then the 
community development director shall forward a copy of the land use 
application to the planning commission and county council together and 
make a recommendation to the planning commission whether to approve 
or deny the land use application. 
 
c. Upon receipt of a referred land use application, the planning 
commission shall, in its capacity as a land use authority, review and either 
approve (with or without conditions) or deny the land use application. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if within fifteen (15) days of the 
county council receiving a copy of a land use application referred to the 
planning commission, the county council elects to act as the land use 
authority on a land use application, the county council may, to the extent it 
is permitted by state law, call up a land use application for county council 
review and decision. If the county council timely calls up a land use 
application from the planning commission, then the county council acting 
as the land use authority shall review the land use application and either 
approve (with or without conditions) or deny the land use application. 
2. Development Agreement and Land Plan Amendments. As used in this 
Subsection H(2), “Minor Amendment” means any amendment to a development 
26
4866-7119-6021 
 
 
18 
 
agreement or project land plan for a named project that: (i) does not increase the 
total net average density described in the placetypes depicted in the project land 
plan for a particular named project; (ii) is necessitated by the topography of or 
engineering requirements associated with the subject property; or (iii) does not 
adjust the boundaries of a placetype as depicted in a project land plan so as to 
increase the size of a placetype by more than [ten percent (10%)]; or (iv) 
exchanges the location of one placetype for another placetype provided that the 
size of each exchanged placetype is not increased or decreased by more than [ten 
percent (10%)]. A “Major Amendment” means an amendment that is not a minor 
amendment. Any proposed minor amendment to a development agreement or 
project land plan shall be submitted to the community development director for 
review, and the community development director shall make a determination as to 
any minor amendment.  A minor amendment is an administrative amendment to 
the development agreement. Any major amendment to a development agreement 
or project land plan shall be submitted to the county council for review, and the 
county council shall make a determination as to any major amendment, after 
receiving any required recommendation from the planning commission, as a 
legislative amendment. 
3. Design Book Amendments. All proposed amendments to an approved 
design book must be approved by a majority of the members of the development 
review committee. 
I. Mandatory Land Use Planning Principles:  The following land use planning 
principles shall be considered in preparing a project land plan for a named project: 
· Dedication and preservation of viewshed/environmental features 
· Consistency with the desired neighborhood character 
1. Dedication and Preservation of Viewshed/Environmental Features Of The 
Area: Preservation of viewsheds should, when practicable, include the retention of 
major portions of meadow and hillside viewsheds, ridgelines, and significant 
environmental features such as waterways and jurisdictional wetlands, wildlife 
habitat, wildfire hazard areas, historic and cultural artifacts, and geologic features. 
This is to be accomplished by, among other things, minimizing the removal of 
vegetation from the site and the amount of over lot grading required to fit the project 
into the natural landscape. These important features of the predevelopment 
landscape shall be as identified on the applicable land use plan map or by field 
inspection at the time of a development application. 
2. Consistency with Desired Neighborhood Character: Development should 
be compatible with the desired neighborhood development patterns and policies 
identified in the community structure plan. 
3. Open Space Requirements for Project: At least 25% of the area identified 
in a project land plan must be designated as qualifying open space.  A project land 
plan  may achieve the required minimum open space by obtaining rights to restrict 
other areas within the CCVOZ as deed-restricted or platted open space, at the time 
of platting, as shall be further detailed in the development agreement. Open space 
may include active open space such as trails, play areas, amphitheaters and other 
areas for active human use.  Open space may include other passive open space 
27
4866-7119-6021 
 
 
19 
 
areas for less active human use. Both passive and active open space constitute 
qualifying open space for purposes of achieving the 25% minimum open space per 
project land plan.  
J. Relocation of Restrictions on Open Space:  
Open Space that is currently restricted may be relocated within the CCVZ, as approved 
by the county council. 
K. Appeals and Interpretations.  
1. Appeal Authority. Notwithstanding anything in Section 11-7-16 to the 
contrary, all appeals from the decision of any land use authority under this section 
shall be heard by a hearing officer appointed to be an appeal authority by the 
county council, or to the board of adjustments. 
2. Code Interpretations. A person who has submitted a land use application 
may request that the community development director provide an official 
interpretation of this title. Any final decision of the community development director 
with regard to the interpretation of this title may be appealed to an appeal authority 
under Subsection K(1) above, or the board of adjustment. The appeal shall be in 
writing no later than ten (10) days of the date of the decision. The appeal shall 
state the basis of the appeal in detail. The appeal shall be heard by the designated 
appeal authority at a regularly scheduled meeting as soon thereafter as may be 
practicable. 
  
28
4866-7119-6021 
20 
 
Development Standards  
Subsection 1.1 (Attached) 
29
A. ATTACHED CEDAR CREST  - DESIGN STANDARDS
Lot Coverage Lot Frontage  Lot Depth Front Setback Side Setback Rear Setback Corner Setback
0 foot min. 5 ft. min.
Building Criteria
Building Height Separation Between Building on Same Lot
Up to 4 stories of livable space allowed.                   
12 foot maximum story height.
Min. setbacks for out building or detached garage: 5' front, 0' 
each side, 0' rear; Out Buildings, Semi-detached or detached 
garages must be 5' from nearest building, or attached to another 
out building or detached garage on another lot.
Lot Criteria90% max. 12 foot min. 50 foot min. 5 foot min. 0 ft min.        
Minimum of 24' of backup space must be demonstrated in lanes. Distance may include opposing drive apron.
Entry 
Location
Front door shall be located on street or green.
Encroachments
Porches, balconies and bays may encroach beyond front and side street setback lines up to five feet (5').
Siding: Brick, stone, stucco, painted or stained clear wood boards/siding, fiber-reinforced cement board, metal 
panels, stained or painted shingles, or wood boards. Plywood is not allowed.  
Roofing: Built-up roofing with parapet, architectural shingles, metal shingles, standing seam metal or cement, wood 
shingles, clay or slate tile are preferred. 
Materials not listed here shall be subject to review by the Development Review Committee (DRC)
Building MaterialsADU
Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) access may occur on street, park, or lane.
Lane access ADUs must provide one (1) additional off-street parking space.
Side-drive ADUs may park on the street.
Front-street ADUs must park off-street and on the lot.
Roofs shall use flat (with or without parapet), gable, gambrel, hip, shed, or mansard forms.
No reflective or dark glass
* Regulation of items such as design character, building materials, architectural features, massing, etc. shall be governed by  an architectural 
pattern book for the Cedar Crest Overlay.
Parking
Each unit requires one (1) off-street parking space.  One (1) additional parking space required with an ADU.
Parking spaces may be lane-accessed.
Min. 0' garage setback from alley
30
A. ATTACHED CEDAR CREST OVERLAY - DESIGN STANDARDS
Not to scale
31
B. COURT CEDAR CREST  - DESIGN STANDARDS
Lot Coverage Lot Frontage  Lot Depth Front Setback Side Setback Rear Setback Corner Setback
4 foot min. 5 ft. min.
Building Criteria
Building Height Separation Between Building on Same Lot
Up to 3.5 stories of livable space allowed.               
12 foot maximum story height.
Min. setbacks for out building or detached garage: 5' front, 0' 
each side, 0' rear; Out Buildings, Semi-detached or detached 
garages must be 5' from nearest building, or attached to another 
out building or detached garage on another lot.
Lot Criteria
75% max.       
90% max. for 
attached
30 foot min.     
15 foot min. for 
attached
50 foot min. 5 foot min. 3 foot min.
Encroachments
Porches, balconies and bays may encroach beyond front and side street setback lines up to five feet (5').
 Porches and terraces may encroach beyond rear setback line up to four feet (4').
Building Materials
Siding: Brick, stone, stucco, painted or stained clear wood boards/siding, fiber-reinforced cement board, metal 
panels, stained or painted shingles, or wood boards. Plywood is not allowed.  
Roofing: Built-up roofing with parapet, architectural shingles, metal shingles, standing seam metal or cement, wood 
shingles, clay or slate tile are preferred. 
Roofs shall use flat (with or without parapet), gable, gambrel, hip, shed, or mansard forms.
No reflective or dark glass
Materials not listed here shall be subject to review by the Development Review Committee (DRC)
Minimum of 24' of backup space must be demonstrated in lanes. Distance may include opposing drive apron.
* Regulation of items such as design character, building materials, architectural features, massing, etc. shall be governed by  an architectural 
pattern book for the Cedar Crest Overlay.
ADU
Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) access may occur on street, park, or lane.
Lane access ADUs must provide one (1) additional off-street parking space.
Side-drive ADUs may park on the street.
Front-street ADUs must park off-street and on the lot.
Entry 
Location
Front door shall be located on street or green.
Parking
Each unit requires one (1) off-street parking spaces.  One (1) additional parking space required with an ADU.
Parking spaces may be accessed by lane or common drive.
Min. 4' garage setback from alley if garage door opens directly or perpendicular to alley.  Min. 0' setback is 
permissible when garage door opens parallel to alley
32
B. COURT CEDAR CREST  - DESIGN STANDARDS
33
C. SMALL LOT CEDAR CREST  - DESIGN STANDARDS
Lot Coverage Lot Frontage  Lot Depth Front Setback Side Setback Rear Setback Corner Setback
EncroachmentsADU Parking
Each unit requires one (1) off-street parking space.  One (1) additional parking space required with an ADU.
Parking spaces may be accessed by lane, or side drive.
Side-drive ADUs may park on the street.
Building Criteria
Building Height
Up to 3.5 stories of livable space except when 
building is placed on slope in which case the 
basement or garage may be fully exposed on 
one side. 12 foot maximum story height.
Lot Criteria70% max. 20 ft. min. 50 foot min. 6 ft. min.
Separation Between Building on Same Lot
Min. setbacks for out building or detached garage: 5' front, 0' 
each side, 0' rear; Out Buildings, Semi-detached or detached 
garages must be 5' from nearest building, or attached to another 
out building or detached garage on another lot.
Porches, balconies and bays may encroach beyond front and side street setback lines up to five feet (5').
Porches and terraces may encroach 10' beyond rear setback line up.
10 foot min.10 foot min. 3 foot min.
* Regulation of items such as design character, building materials, architectural features, massing, etc. shall be governed by  an architectural 
pattern book for the Cedar Crest Overlay.
Front-street ADUs must park off-street and on the lot.
Entry 
Location
Siding: Brick, stone, stucco, painted or stained clear wood boards/siding, fiber-reinforced cement board, metal 
panels, stained or painted shingles, or wood boards. Plywood is not allowed.  
Roofing: Built-up roofing with parapet, architectural shingles, metal shingles, standing seam metal or cement, wood 
shingles, clay or slate tile are preferred. 
Roofs shall use flat (with or without parapet), gable, gambrel, hip, shed, or mansard forms.
No reflective or dark glass
Front door shall be located on street or green.
Materials not listed here shall be subject to review by the Development Review Committee (DRC)
Building Materials
Min. 4' garage setback from alley if garage door opens directly or perpendicular to alley.  Min. 0' setback is 
permissible when garage door opens parallel to alley
Minimum of 24' of backup space must be demonstrated in lanes. Distance may include opposing drive apron.
Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) access may occur on street, park, or lane.
Lane access ADUs must provide one (1) additional off-street parking space.
34
C. SMALL LOT CEDAR CREST  - DESIGN STANDARDS
35
D. MEDIUM LOT CEDAR CREST  - DESIGN STANDARDS
Lot Coverage Lot Frontage  Lot Depth Front Setback Side Setback Rear Setback Corner Setback
* Garages are not included in rear setback calculations
 20 foot min.* 10 ft. min.
Building Criteria
Building Height Separation Between Building on Same Lot
Up to 2.5 stories of livable space except when 
building is placed on slope in which case the 
basement or garage may be fully exposed on 
one side. 12 foot maximum story height.
Min. setbacks for out building or detached garage: 5' front, 0' 
each side, 0' rear; Out Buildings, Semi-detached or detached 
garages must be 5' from nearest building, or attached to another 
out building or detached garage on another lot.
Lot Criteria55% max. 55 ft. min. 90 foot min. 10 foot min. 5 foot min. 
Encroachments
Porches, balconies, and bays may encroach beyond front and side street setback lines up to five feet (5').
Porches and terraces may encroach 10' beyond rear setback line.
Building Materials
Siding: Brick, stone, stucco, painted or stained clear wood boards/siding, fiber-reinforced cement board, metal 
panels, stained or painted shingles, or wood boards. Plywood is not allowed.  
Roofing: Built-up roofing with parapet, architectural shingles, metal shingles, standing seam metal or cement, wood 
shingles, clay or slate tile are preferred. 
Roofs shall use flat (with or without parapet), gable, gambrel, hip, shed, or mansard forms.
No reflective or dark glass
Materials not listed here shall be subject to review by the  Development Review Committee (DRC)
Minimum of 24' of backup space must be demonstrated in lanes. Distance may include opposing drive apron.
* Regulation of items such as design character, building materials, architectural features, massing, etc. shall be governed by  an architectural 
pattern book for the Cedar Crest Overlay.
ADU
Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) access may occur on street, park, or lane.
Lane access ADUs must provide one (1) additional off-street parking space.
Side-drive ADUs may park on the street.
Front-street ADUs must park off-street and on the lot.
Entry 
Location
Front door shall be located on street or green.
Parking
Each unit requires two (2) off-street parking spaces.  One (1) additional parking space required with an ADU.
Parking spaces may be accessed by lane or side drive.
Front-loaded garages may be max. 40% of primary façade and must be recessed at least 5' behind the primary 
façade.
Min. 4' garage setback from alley if garage door opens directly or perpendicular to alley.  Min. 0' setback is 
permissible when garage door opens parallel to alley
36
D. MEDIUM LOT CEDAR CREST  - DESIGN STANDARDS
37
E. LARGE LOT CEDAR CREST  - DESIGN STANDARDS
Lot Coverage Lot Frontage  Lot Depth Front Setback Side Setback Rear Setback Corner Setback
* Garages are not included in rear setback calculations
20 foot min.* 12 ft. min.
Building Criteria
Building Height Separation Between Building on Same Lot
Up to 2.5 stories of livable space except when 
building is placed on slope in which case the 
basement or garage may be fully exposed on 
one side. 12 foot maximum story height.
Min. setbacks for out building or detached garage: 5' front, 0' 
each side, 0' rear; Out Buildings, Semi-detached or detached 
garages must be 5' from nearest building, or attached to another 
out building or detached garage on another lot.
Lot Criteria45% max. 75 ft. min. 90 foot min. 12 foot min. 5 foot min.
Encroachments
Porches, balconies, and bays may encroach beyond front and side street setback lines up to five feet (5').
Porches and terraces may encroach 10' beyond rear setback line.
Building Materials
Siding: Brick, stone, stucco, painted or stained clear wood boards/siding, fiber-reinforced cement board, metal 
panels, stained or painted shingles, or wood boards. Plywood is not allowed.  
Roofing: Built-up roofing with parapet, architectural shingles, metal shingles, standing seam metal or cement, wood 
shingles, clay or slate tile are preferred. 
Roofs shall use flat (with or without parapet), gable, gambrel, hip, shed, or mansard forms.
No reflective or dark glass
Materials not listed here shall be subject to review by the Development Review Committee (DRC)
Minimum of 24' of backup space must be demonstrated in lanes. Distance may include opposing drive apron.
* Regulation of items such as design character, building materials, architectural features, massing, etc. shall be governed by  an architectural 
pattern book for the Cedar Crest Overlay.
ADU
Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) access may occur on street, park, or lane.
Lane access ADUs must provide one (1) additional off-street parking space.
Side-drive ADUs may park on the street.
Front-street ADUs must park off-street and on the lot.
Entry 
Location
Front door shall be located on street or green.
Parking
Each unit requires two (2) off-street parking spaces.  One (1) additional parking space required with an ADU.
Parking spaces may be accessed by lane or side drive.
Front-loaded garages may be max. 40% of primary façade and must be recessed at least 5' behind the primary 
façade.
Min. 4' garage setback from alley if garage door opens directly or perpendicular to alley.  Min. 0' setback is 
permissible when garage door opens parallel to alley
38
E. LARGE LOT CEDAR CREST  - DESIGN STANDARDS
39
F. ESTATE LOT CEDAR CREST  - DESIGN STANDARDS
Lot Coverage Lot Frontage  Lot Depth Front Setback Side Setback Rear Setback Corner Setback
* Garages are not included in rear setback calculations
30 foot min.* 15 ft. min.
Building Criteria
Building Height Separation Between Building on Same Lot
Up to 2.5 stories of livable space except when 
building is placed on slope in which case the 
basement or garage may be fully exposed on 
one side. 12 foot maximum story height.
Min. setbacks for out building or detached garage: 5' front, 0' 
each side, 0' rear; Out Buildings, Semi-detached or detached 
garages must be 5' from nearest building, or attached to another 
out building or detached garage on another lot.
Lot Criteria40% max. 90 foot min. 100 foot min. 15 foot min. 8 foot min. 
Encroachments
Porches, balconies, and bays may encroach beyond front and side street setback lines up to five feet (5').
Porches and terraces may encroach 10' beyond rear setback line.
Building Materials
Siding: Brick, stone, stucco, painted or stained clear wood boards/siding, fiber-reinforced cement board, metal 
panels, stained or painted shingles, or wood boards. Plywood is not allowed.  
Roofing: Built-up roofing with parapet, architectural shingles, metal shingles, standing seam metal or cement, wood 
shingles, clay or slate tile are preferred. 
Roofs shall use flat (with or without parapet), gable, gambrel, hip, shed, or mansard forms.
No reflective or dark glass
Materials not listed here shall be subject to review by the Development Review Committee (DRC).
* Regulation of items such as design character, building materials, architectural features, massing, etc. shall be governed by  an architectural 
pattern book for the Cedar Crest Overlay.
Parking
Each unit requires two (2) off-street parking spaces.  One (1) additional parking space required with an ADU.
Parking spaces may be accessed by lane or side drive.
Front-loaded garages may be max. 40% of primary façade and must be recessed at least 5' behind the primary 
façade.
Minimum of 24' of backup space must be demonstrated in lanes. Distance may include opposing drive apron.
Entry 
Location
Front door shall be located on street or green.
ADU
Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) access may occur on street, park, or lane.
Lane access ADUs must provide one (1) additional off-street parking space.
Side-drive ADUs may park on the street.
Front-street ADUs must park off-street and on the lot.
Min. 4' garage setback from alley if garage door opens directly or perpendicular to alley.  Min. 0' setback is 
permissible when garage door opens parallel to alley
40
F. ESTATE LOT CEDAR CREST  - DESIGN STANDARDS
41
A. GARDEN CEDAR CREST  - DESIGN STANDARDS
Lot Coverage Lot Frontage  Lot Size Front Setback Side Setback Rear Setback Corner Setback
4 foot min. /     
15 foot min. 
when there is 
no alley
Corner lots are 
considered to 
have two front 
sides
Building Criteria
Building Height Separation Between Building on Same Lot
Heights shall not be greater than 3 stories.           
16 foot maximum story height.
Min. 20' setback between detached buildings on the same 
parcel. Min. 15' setback from surface parking areas.
Lot Criteria60% min. 90 foot min. 10,000 sqft. min. 10 foot min. 10 foot min.
Encroachments
Porches, balconies and bays may encroach five feet (5') beyond front and side street setback lines.  Porches and 
terraces may encroach five feet (5') beyond rear setback line.
50% of lot frontage must have building within 5' of min. setback
Building Materials
Siding: Brick, cut stone, stucco, painted or stained clear wood boards/siding,  fiber-reinforced cement board, metal 
panels, stained or painted shingles, or wood boards, Concrete, GFRC, Terra Cotta, glass curtainwall or store fron t. 
Architectural CMU is allowed as an accent. Plywood is not allowed. 
Roofing: Built-up roofing with parapet, architectural shingles, metal shingles, standing seam metal or cement, wood 
shingles, clay or slate tile are preferred. 
Roofs shall use flat (with or without parapet), gable, gambrel, hip, shed, or mansard forms.
No reflective or dark glass
Materials not listed here shall be subject to review by the Development Review Committee (DRC).
* Regulation of items such as design character, building materials, architectural features, massing, etc. shall be governed by  an architectural 
pattern book for the Cedar Crest Overlay.
Each unit requires 1.5 parking spaces. Parking ratio may be decreased to 1 space/3 units plus 1 space per 
employee for senior housing, or 1 space/unit if the building is within 1/4 mile of a built or planned transit stop.
Parking areas may be accessed from street or lane.
Parking areas shall not be located between buildings and the street.
Side area parking lots must exceed the building setback by at least 10'. Side area parking shall never be located on 
a block corner.
Entry 
Location
Front door shall be located on street or green.
Ground floor units shall  have  direct unit access.
Shared parking is allowed.
Parking
42
A. GARDEN CEDAR CREST  - DESIGN STANDARDS
43
B. TUCK-UNDER CEDAR CREST - DESIGN STANDARDS
Lot Coverage Lot Frontage  Lot Size Front Setback Side Setback Rear Setback Corner Setback
4 foot min. /     
15 foot min. 
when there is 
no alley
Corner lots are 
considered to 
have two front 
sides
Building Criteria
Building Height Separation Between Building on Same Lot
Heights shall not be greater than 4 stories.           
16 foot maximum story height.
Min. 20' setback between detached buildings on the same 
parcel. Min. 10' setback from surface parking areas.
Lot Criteria75% max. 50 foot min. 10,000 sqft. min. 10 foot min. 10 foot min.
Encroachments
Porches, balconies and bays may encroach beyond front and side street setback lines up to five feet (5').  Porches 
and terraces may encroach beyond rear setback line up to five feet (5').
50% of lot frontage must have building within 5' of min. setback
Building Materials
Siding: Brick, cut stone, stucco, painted or stained clear wood boards/siding,  fiber-reinforced cement board, metal 
panels, stained or painted shingles, or wood boards, Concrete, GFRC, Terra Cotta, glass curtainwall or store front. 
Architectural CMU is allowed as an accent.  Plywood is not allowed. 
Roofing: Built-up roofing with parapet, architectural shingles, metal shingles, standing seam metal or cement, wood 
shingles, clay or slate tile are preferred. 
Roofs shall use flat (with or without parapet), gable, gambrel, hip, shed, or mansard forms.
No reflective or dark glass
Materials not listed here shall be subject to review by the Development Review Committee (DRC).
* Regulation of items such as design character, building materials, architectural features, massing, etc. shall be governed by  an architectural 
pattern book for the Cedar Crest Overlay.
Each unit requires 1.5 parking spaces. Parking ratio may be decreased to 1 space/3 units plus 1 space per 
employee for senior housing, or 1 space/unit if the building is within 1/4 mile of a built or planned transit stop.
Parking areas may be accessed from street or lane.
Parking areas shall not be located between buildings and the street.
Side area parking lots must exceed the building setback by at least 10'. Side area parking shall never be located on 
a block corner.
Entry 
Location
Front door shall be located on street or green.
Ground floor units shall  have direct unit access.
Shared parking is allowed.
Parking
44
B. TUCK-UNDER CEDAR CREST - DESIGN STANDARDS
45
III. COMMUNITY USE CEDAR CREST  - DESIGN STANDARDS
Amenity buildings, religious & civic structures, pavilions, gateways and other structures
Lot Coverage Lot Frontage  Lot Depth Front Setback Side Setback Rear Setback Corner Setback
0 ft. min. 0 ft. min.
Building Criteria
Building Height Separation Between Building on Same Lot
Heights shall not be more than 3 stories . 20 foot 
maximum story height. N/A
Lot CriteriaN/A N/A N/A 0 ft. min. 0 ft. min.
EncroachmentsBuilding Materials
Siding: Brick, cut stone, stucco, painted or stained clear wood boards/siding,  fiber-reinforced cement board, metal 
panels, stained or painted shingles, or wood boards, Concrete, GFRC, Terra Cotta, glass curtainwall or store front 
are preferred. Architectural CMU is allowed as an accent. Plywood is not allowed. 
Roofing: Built-up roofing with parapet, architectural shingles, metal shingles, standing seam metal or cement, wood 
shingles, clay or slate tile. 
Roofs shall use flat (with or without parapet), gable, gambrel, hip, shed, or mansard forms.
No reflective or dark glass
Materials not listed here shall be subject to review by the DRC.
* Regulation of items such as design character, building materials, architectural features, massing, etc. shall be governed by  an architectural 
pattern book for the Cedar Crest Overlay.
Parking
Unless fully below grade, parking areas shall not be located between buildings and primary streets.
Side area parking lots on secondary streets must not project in front of the building façade.  Side area parking shall 
never be located on a block corner.
The ground floor of street-facing parking structures must be screened by inhabited space.
Shared parking is allowed.
Entry 
Location
Front door shall be located on street or green.
Ground floor units shall  have direct street access.
Street parking may be used in lieu of onsite parking.
46
IV. MIXED-USE CEDAR CREST  - DESIGN STANDARDS
Lot Coverage Lot Frontage  Lot Depth Front Setback Side Setback Rear Setback Corner Setback
10 foot min.
Corner lots are 
considered to 
have two front 
sides
Building Criteria
Building Height Separation Between Building on Same Lot
Heights shall not be more than 4 stories. 20 foot 
maximum story height for retail and 12 foot story 
height for residential
N/A
Lot CriteriaN/A N/A N/A 0 foot min. 0 foot min.
Encroachments
Upper-story balconies and bays may encroach beyond front setback lines up to five feet (5').
Building Materials
Siding: Brick, cut stone, stucco, painted or stained clear wood boards/siding,  fiber-reinforced cement board, metal 
panels, stained or painted shingles, or wood boards, Concrete, GFRC, Terra Cotta, glass curtainwall or store front. 
Architectural CMU is allowed as an accent.  Plywood is not allowed. 
Roofing: Built-up roofing with parapet, architectural shingles, metal shingles, standing seam metal or cement, wood 
shingles, clay or slate tile are preferred. 
Roofs shall use flat (with or without parapet), gable, gambrel, hip, shed, or mansard forms.
Glazing: No reflective glass for residential uses. Minimum 75% visible transmittance (VT) for the ground floor, 50% for 
upper floor non-residential uses.
Materials not listed here shall be subject to review by the  Development Review Committee (DRC).
75% of lot frontage must have building within 5' of min. setback
Where a parcel constitues an entire block, or has 3 street frontages, The lot frontage reqiurement applies to 2 street 
frontages, one of which must be the primary street
* Regulation of items such as design character, building materials, architectural features, massing, etc. shall be governed by  an architectural 
pattern book for the Cedar Crest Overlay.
Parking
Min. parking ratio: 3 spaces/1,000 sq ft.
Unless fully below grade, parking areas shall not be located between buildings and primary streets.
The ground floor of street-facing parking structures must be screened by inhabited space.
Shared parking is allowed.
Entry 
Location
Front door shall be located on street or green.
Ground floor units shall  have direct street access.
Side area parking lots  on secondary streets must not project in front of the building façade.  Side area parking shall 
never be located on a block corner.
47
V. SMALL COMMERCIAL CEDAR CREST  - DESIGN STANDARDS
Non-residential buildings, not including industrial or warehouse uses, that are less than 20,000 sq. ft. Typical types include small retail, service or office buildings 
Lot Coverage Lot Frontage  Lot Depth Front Setback Side Setback Rear Setback Corner Setback
10 foot min.
Corner lots are 
considered to 
have two front 
sides
Building Criteria
Building Height Separation Between Building on Same Lot
Heights shall not be more than 3 stories . 20 foot 
maximum story height. N/A
Lot CriteriaN/A N/A N/A 0 foot min. 0 foot min.
Encroachments
Upper-story balconies and bays may encroach beyond front setback lines.
Building Materials
Siding: Brick, cut stone, stucco, painted or stained clear wood boards/siding,  fiber-reinforced cement board, metal 
panels, stained or painted shingles, or wood boards, Concrete, GFRC, Terra Cotta, glass curtainwall or store front. 
Architectural CMU is allowed as an accent.   Plywood is not allowed. 
Roofing: Built-up roofing with parapet, architectural shingles, metal shingles, standing seam metal or cement, wood 
shingles, clay or slate tile are preferred. 
Roofs shall use flat (with or without parapet), gable, gambrel, hip, shed, or mansard forms.
Glazing: Minimum 75% VT ground floor, 50% upper floors 
Materials not listed here shall be subject to review by the DRC.
40% of lot frontage must have building within 5' of min. setback
Where a parcel constitues an entire block, or has 3 street frontages, The lot frontage reqiurement applies to 2 street 
frontages, one of which must be the primary street
* Regulation of items such as design character, building materials, architectural features, massing, etc. shall be governed by  an architectural 
pattern book for the Cedar Crest Overlay.
Parking
Min. parking ratio: 3 spaces/1,000 sq ft.
Side area parking lots  must not project in front of the building façade.  Side area parking shall never be located on 
a block corner.
The ground floor of street-facing parking structures must be screened by inhabited space.
Shared parking is allowed.
Entry 
Location
Front door shall be located on street or green.
Ground floor units shall  have direct street access.
Unless fully below grade, parking areas shall not be located between buildings and primary streets
48
VI. LARGE COMMERICAL CEDAR CREST  - DESIGN STANDARDS
Lot Coverage Lot Frontage  Lot size Front Setback Side Setback Rear Setback Corner Setback
Lot CriteriaN/A N/A 0.5 acre lot size 0 feet min.
Building Criteria
Building Height
Heights shall not be more than 2 stories . 20 foot maximum story height. 
Roofing: Built-up roofing with parapet, architectural shingles, metal shingles, standing seam metal or cement, wood 
shingles, clay or slate tile are preferred. 
Roofs shall use flat (with or without parapet), gable, gambrel, hip, shed, or mansard forms.
Glazing: Minimum 75% VT ground floor, 50% upper floors 
Materials not listed here shall be subject to review by the DRC.
20 feet min.     
30 ft. min. 
adjacent to 
residential
20 ft. min.
20 feet min.     
30 ft. min. 
adjacent to 
residential
Non-residential buildings, not including industrial or warehouse uses, that are greater than 20,000 sq. ft. Typical types include single story 
retail, or multiple story institutional, or office buildings. "Big Box" retail is included in this category.
* Regulation of items such as design character, building materials, architectural features, massing, etc. shall be governed by  an architectural 
pattern book for the Cedar Crest Overlay.
Parking
Min. parking ratio: 2 spaces/1,000 sq ft. 
Shared parking is allowed.
Entry 
Location
Front door shall be located on parking, street or green.
Ground floor units shall shall have direct street access. 
1 space/1,000 sq ft. reduction for development within a 1/4 mile of transit stops.
Encroachments
For non-retail buildings, 60% of lot frontage must have building within 10' of min. setback. For retail buildings, there is 
no frontage requirement.
Where a parcel constitues an entire block, or has 3 street frontages, The lot frontage reqiurement applies to 2 street 
frontages, one of which must be the primary street
Building Materials
Siding: Brick, cut stone, stucco, painted or stained clear wood boards/siding,  fiber-reinforced cement board, metal 
panels, stained or painted shingles, or wood boards, Concrete, GFRC, Terra Cotta, glass curtanwall or store front. 
Architectural CMU is allowed as an accent. Plywood is not allowed. 
49
VII. LIGHT INDUSTRIAL CEDAR CREST  - DESIGN STANDARDS
Lot Coverage Lot Frontage  Lot Size Front Setback Side Setback Rear Setback Corner Setback
Lot Criteria50% max. N/A .5 acre min . 20 feet min.
Building Criteria
Building Height Separation Between Building on Same Lot
Heights shall not be more than 2 stories . 20 foot 
maximum story height. N/A
Roofs shall use flat (with or without parapet), gable, gambrel, hip, shed, or mansard forms.
Glazing: Minimum 75% VT ground floor, 50% upper floors 
Materials not listed here shall be subject to review by the Development Review Committee (DRC).
0 feet min. 30 ft. 
min. adjacent to 
residential
Corner lots are 
considered to 
have two front 
sides
0 feet min. 30 ft. 
min. adjacent to 
residential.
Industrial/ R&D buildings are a non-residential building type housing research and development, light production, warehousing and distribution uses, 
fabrication, lab, and related activities.
* Regulation of items such as design character, building materials, architectural features, massing, etc. shall be governed by  an architectural 
pattern book for the Cedar Crest Overlay.
Parking
Min. parking ratio: 2 spaces/1,000 sq ft. (based on building occupancy).
Entry 
Location
Front door shall be located on street or green.
Ground floor units shall shall have direct street access.
EncroachmentsBuilding Materials
Siding: Brick, cut stone, stucco, painted or stained clear wood boards/siding,  fiber-reinforced cement board, metal 
panels, stained or painted shingles, or wood boards, Concrete, GFRC, Terra Cotta, glass curtanwall or store front. 
Architectural CMU is allowed as an accent.  Plywood is not allowed. 
Roofing: Built-up roofing with parapet, architectural shingles, metal shingles, standing seam metal or cement, wood 
shingles, clay or slate tile are preferred. 
50
A. VILLAGE & NEIGHBORHOOD CENTER STREETS CEDAR CREST OVERLAY - DESIGN STANDARDS
Outdoor Furniture
Transit stops shall reflect the community architectural character and be the same throughout the entire community 
in order to establish their identity and legibility.
Outdoor furniture shall reflect community character in materials, style, and color.
Drainage Lighting
Lighting standards to meet Eastern Summit County standards.
Light levels shall be conducive to pedestrian comfort and safety.
Description
The public domain of neighborhood and village center streets is characterized by urban hardscape qualities and 
bounded by ground floor uses that are typically commercial - either retail or office. Trees are generally planted in 
tree grates in sidewalks and shrubs, flower, and other plants are located in planting containers such as pots, boxes 
or raised seating planters. Parking is encouraged on both sides of village and neighborhood center streets and may 
be angled, reverse angled, parallel, or perpendicular.
Landscaping
Street tree spacing along neighborhood and village center streets shall be consistent within individual blocks.
Street trees shall be located in tree grates and integrated into the village center sidewalk systems.
Shrubs, hedges, and grasses in street planters within 10 feet of the back of street curb shall not exceed 30 inches in 
height in order to preserve visual connections from sidewalk to street.
Fencing
All service areas shall be screened from the public domain with opaque fences or walls.
Fences and walls shall match associated architecture in materials and style.
Sidewalk dining fences shall be visually nonobtrusive and shall not exceed 3 feet in height.
Fencing used as screens may be as tall as necessary to perform their function.
51
A. VILLAGE & NEIGHBORHOOD CENTER STREET S CEDAR CREST OVERLAY - DESIGN STANDARDS
52
B. HOYTSVILLE ROAD CEDAR CREST OVERLAY - DESIGN STANDARDS
Description
Hoytsville Road is intended to be a  thoroughfare suitable for higher intensities related to and supportive of 
commerce.  Parallel and/or angled parking can be used along with narrow lanes appropriate for a commercial 
environment. Hoytville Road will encourage less frequest curb cuts and clustering of units and other uses to 
concentrate access points along the road corridor.
Landscaping
Street tree spacing along Hoytsville Road shall be consistent within individual blocks.
Street trees shall be located in tree grates and integrated into the  sidewalk systems.
Shrubs, hedges, and grasses in street planters within 10 feet of the back of street curb shall not exceed 30 inches in 
height in order to preserve visual connections from sidewalk to street.
Lighting
Lighting standards to meet Eastern Summit County standards.
Light levels shall be conducive to pedestrian comfort and safety.
Fencing
All service areas shall be screened from the public domain with opaque fences or walls.
Fences and walls shall match associated architecture in materials and style.
Sidewalk dining fences shall be visually nonobtrusive and shall not exceed 3 feet in height.
Fencing used as screens may be as tall as necessary to perform their function.
Outdoor Furniture
Transit stops shall reflect the community architectural character and be the same throughout the entire community 
in order to establish their identity and legibility.
Outdoor furniture shall reflect community character in materials, style, and color.
Drainage
53
B. HOYTSVILLE ROAD CEDAR CREST OVERLAY - DESIGN STANDARDS
54
C. SPRING CANYON ROAD CEDAR CREST OVERLAY - DESIGN STANDARDS
Description
Spring Canyon Road is intended to be a local, slow-movement thoroughfare suitable for low density environments.  
Spring Canyon Road is rural in character, at times without curbs or striping.  In instances where Spring Canyon Road 
abuts an identified place type it will be required to take on the design characteristics of said place type.
Landscaping
Permanent landscaping should include low water and drought tolerant materials which will blend with the natural 
surroundings.
Irrigation is not required.
In instances where Spring Canyon Road abuts an identified place type it will be required to take on the design 
characteristics of said place type.
Lighting
Lighting standards to meet Eastern Summit County standards.
Only low level lighting for pedestrian safety is allowed along permanent gravel roads and lanes.
Fencing
 In instances where Spring Canyon Road abuts an identified place type it will be required to take on the design 
characteristics of said place type.
Outdoor Furniture
 In instances where Spring Canyon Road abuts an identified place type it will be required to take on the design 
characteristics of said place type.
Drainage
55
D. CREAMERY LANE CEDAR CREST OVERLAY - DESIGN STANDARDS
Description
Creamery Road is intended to be a loca l, slow-movement thoroughfare suitable for low to moderate density 
environments.  Creamery Road is more rural in character, and flexible in the types of public frontages it will support.  
In instances where Creamery Road abuts an identified place type it will be required to take on the design 
characteristics of said place type.
Landscaping
 In instances where Creamery Road abuts an identified place type it will be required to take on the design 
characteristics of said place type.
Lighting
Lighting standards to meet Eastern Summit County standards.
Light levels shall be conducive to pedestrian comfort and safety.
Fencing
 In instances where Creamery Road abuts an identified place type it will be required to take on the design 
characteristics of said place type.
Outdoor Furniture
 In instances where Creamery Road abuts an identified Place Type it will be required to take on the design 
characteristics of said place type.
Drainage
56
E. BOULEVARDS CEDAR CREST OVERLAY - DESIGN STANDARDS
Street tree spacing along boulevards shall be consistent within individual blocks.
Description
Boulevards are community streets that incorporate the use of planted or programmed medians to separate traffic 
flow direction and provide a pleasant driving experience and reduce crossing distances for pedestrians and other 
forms of non-automobile mobility. Medians on boulevards may be 20' or more in width. Parking is encouraged on 
both sides of boulevards and may be angled, reverse angled, parallel, or perpendicular. 
Medians shall be primarily planted with native/drought tolerant vegetation.
Active recreation areas may be located in boulevard medians and may be planted with irrigated drought tolerant 
grasses and ornamental species.
Boulevards may be planted with tall tree species that can act as windbreaks.
Fencing shall reflect architectural character in materials, style, and color.
Fencing for rear yard privacy may be up to 6 feet in height and may be of opaque construction.
Rear yard privacy fencing that parallels boulevards shall be of consistent materials, color, height, and style.
Lighting
Lighting standards to meet Eastern Summit County standards.
Only low level lighting for pedestrians safety is allowed along pathway and trail alignments within boulevard 
medians.
Tree lawns between sidewalk and street edge shall be drought tolerant grasses, or low, durable groundcovers. Tree 
lawn landscape treatments shall be consistent within individual blocks and across streets.   
Constructed wetlands, including open water areas, are allowed in boulevard medians for the treatment and 
retention or detention of storm water.
Landscaping
Since architecture fronts on boulevards, there are no sound walls and/or development walls.
No fencing in boulevards is allowed other than service screening and safety fencing.
FencingOutoodr Furniture
Outdoor furniture shall reflect community character in materials, style, and color.
Transit stops shall reflect the community architectural character and be the same throughout the entire community 
in order to establish their identity and legibility.
Drainage
Central medians may be used for flood conveyance or biofiltration purposes, trails, and other forms of recreation.
Constructed wetlands, including open water areas, are allowed in boulevard medians for the treatment of 
stormwater
57
F. CONNECTOR STREETS CEDAR CREST OVERLAY - DESIGN STANDARDSDescription
Connector Streets carry the primary through-traffic loads and function as collector streets in the plan.  Traffic and 
parking lanes are a few feet wider so weave movements are not necessary when parking on both sides of this street 
type. Parking is encouraged on both side sides of connector streets.
Landscaping
Street tree spacing along local streets shall be consistent within individual blocks.
Tree lawns between sidewalk and street edge shall be drought tolerant grasses, or low, durable groundcovers. Tree lawn landscape 
treatments shall be consistent within individual blocks and across streets.   
Trees must be drip irrigated.
Lighting
Lighting standards to meet Eastern Summit County standards.
Fencing
Front yard and side yard fencing on individual residential parcels shall not exceed 3’ in height
Fencing shall reflect architectural character in materials, style, and color
Fencing for rear yard privacy may be up to 6’ in height and may be of opaque construction.
Rear yard privacy fencing may not parallel connector streets.
Outdoor Furniture
There are no outdoor furniture requirements for connector streets.
Drainage
58
F. CONNECTOR STREETS CEDAR CREST OVERLAY - DESIGN STANDARDS
59
F. CONNECTOR STREETS CEDAR CREST OVERLAY - DESIGN STANDARDS
60
G. LOCAL STREETS CEDAR CREST OVERLAY - DESIGN STANDARDS
61
H. REAR LANES or ALLEYS CEDAR CREST OVERLAY - DESIGN STANDARDS
Description
Rear lanes or alleys are public rights-of-way or courtyards that are narrower than local streets and allow vehicular 
access to rear yards and garages and accommodate city services such as garbage collection and emergency 
response. Lane adjacent parking may only occur outside of public rights-of-way within parking courts if available or 
on 20' driveways and garages. The standard lane right-of-way is 20' wide with 16' of concrete pavement. Lanes, 
needing to accommodate public safety access, must be 20' of concrete pavement in a 24' right-of-way and are 
only necessary when block depths exceed 300' from right-of-way to right of way. 
Landscaping
Landscape plantings may be used to give visual relief to alleys.
Planting area must be at least four (4’) in depth to accommodate the placement of shoveled snow.
Planting areas must be drip irrigated.
Lighting
Lighting standards to meet Eastern Summit County standards.
Fencing
Fencing shall reflect architectural character in materials, style, and color.
Fencing for rear yard privacy may be up to 6’ in height and may be of opaque construction.
All service areas shall be screened from the public domain with opaque fences or walls.
Fencing used to screen service areas may be as tall as necessary to perform their function.
Outdoor Furniture
There are no outdoor furniture requirements for rear lanes or alleys.
Drainage
Right-of-way design with inverted crown to flow stormwater to drain or street curb.
62
I. REAR PARKING COURTS CEDAR CREST OVERLAY - DESIGN STANDARDSDescription
Rear parking courts are the beginning and end point for automobiles within the circulation system.  These areas are 
for providing parking, internal to blocks, where the parking court is shielded from public view by buildings.  Rear 
parking courts can be found utilizing lot types that allow for building walls between the street and the parking court.
Landscaping
Landscaping primarily will consist of foundation plantings which are native/drought tolerant vegetation.
Foundation plantings must be drip irrigated.
Lighting
Lighting standards to meet Eastern Summit County standards.
Only low level lighting for pedestrians safety is allowed.
FencingOutdoor Furniture
There are no outdoor furniture requirements for rear parking courts.
Drainage
Design will flow stormwater  to appropriate location of parking courts.
63
J. RURAL STREET CEDAR CREST OVERLAY - DESIGN STANDARDSDescription
Rural streets are intended to be utilized as the upgrade opportunity for gravel roads which need to accommodate 
growing traffic volumes, and conditions where stormwater management can include directly adjacent natural 
areas.  Rural streets have an inverted asphalt surface with a concrete edge that will allow for sheet flow into 
adjacent natural areas allowing for light imprint solution to storm water management.  No curb and gutter is 
required.  Rural street cross section can be combined with other thoroughfare types when natural areas exist on one 
side only.
Landscaping
Landscaping will account for transition from street edge to the natural areas utilizing native/drought tolerant 
vegetation. 
Irrigation is not required.
Lighting
Lighting standards to meet Eastern Summit County standards.
Only low level lighting for pedestrians safety is allowed.
Fencing
Fencing is not required, but can be used at times to buffer natural areas which require added protection.
Fencing that may be used would be rural in nature (i.e. split rail).
Outdoor Furniture
There are no outdoor furniture requirements for rural streets.
Drainage
Storm water to flow from street to natural areas.
64
K. GRAVEL ROADS and LANES CEDAR CREST OVERLAY - DESIGN STANDARDS
Description
Gravel roads and lanes are utilized to maintain the rural characteristics of areas that will maintain their current state.  
They may also be utilized for purposes of providing light imprint infrastructure for areas of development which will 
deliver a low intensity pattern.  Gravel roads may also be used as part of an incremental strategy for providing 
secondary access to developing cluster and neighborhood place types.  Permanent development shall not directly 
abut gravel roads and lanes.
Landscaping
Landscaping shall only be required in situations where gravel roads and lanes are being delivered as light imprint 
infrastructure.  Any temporary or incremental use does not require permanent landscaping.
Permanent landscaping should include low water and drought tolerant materials which will blend with the natural 
surroundings.
Irrigation is not required.
Lighting
Lighting standards to meet Eastern Summit County standards.
Only low level lighting for pedestrian safety is allowed along permanent gravel roads and lanes.
Fencing
Vinyl and chain link fencing are prohibited.
Outdoor Furniture
There are no outdoor furniture requirements for rural streets.
Drainage
Light imprint swales shall be utilized for stormwater collection.
65
L. TRAILS, WALKS, and BIKEWAYS CEDAR CREST OVERLAY - DESIGN STANDARDS
Separate trail systems are allowed in open spaces and parks for incompatible uses such as hiking, horseback riding, 
and cycling.
Description
The multi or single use trail, walk and bikeway system  flow through all of the landscape or place types in the 
community. Trails and their associated furnishing shall meet the landscaping, fencing, lighting, and outdoor furniture 
requirements for each landscape or place type.
Bikeways located on streets shall meet NACTO Standards
 at time of construction
Tree plantings along bikeway alignments in open space areas must be set back from pavement edge a minimum 
of 4'.
Trails and bikeways may be a combination of hard paving and soft paving to appeal to a diverse group of trail users 
such as road and mountain bike users as well as runners.
Vinyl and chain link fencing are prohibited.
Lighting
Lighting, if provided shall match the style requirements for the landscape or place type where the trail is located 
and meet the Eastern Summit County standards.
Walk trails in natural areas may be as narrow as 4'  and have a soft surface such as pea gravel, sand, crusher fines or 
bark mulch.
LandscapingOutdoor Furniture
Furniture style shall match requirements for the landscape or place type where the trail is located.
Bench seating shall be located along walking trails and at civic nodes.
Drainage
Soft trails shall be constructed to divert water and prevent erosion.
Fencing
Fencing near trails shall be offset at least 4' from edge of trail surface.
Fencing style shall match the requirements for the landscape or  place type where the trail is located.
66
M. PARKING and ACCESS CEDAR CREST OVERLAY - DESIGN STANDARDS
Small parking areas may be allowed for access to public trails and parks.
Description
Parking areas within the community shall be screened with landscaping, fencing, or both. Landscape treatments for 
parking areas should be compatible with the surrounding landscape type in order to fit as seamlessly as possible 
into the community structure. The intent of landscape and screening efforts is to minimize the visual presence of 
asphalt and cars and to reduce heat islands in the community.
Tree planting shall be planted in a grid pattern to maximize shade, enhance the parking experience, and reduce 
the visual impact of the parking area. 
In areas where parking abuts a street, a minimum landscape buffer zone of 10' is required between the parking 
area and the parking area side of the street sidewalk
Buffer planting area planting shall match the surrounding landscape types.
Fencing or walls shall be used when landscaping does not provide year round screening.
Vinyl and chain link fencing are prohibited.
Lighting
Lighting standards to meet Eastern Summit County standards.
On-street angled, reverse angled, perpendicular, and or parallel parking is allowed on Village and Neighborhood 
center boulevards, connector streets and local streets. 
Parallel parking is allowed on neighborhood streets, but not allowed on rear lanes.
LandscapingOutdoor FurnitureDrainage
Bio-swales may be used between parking rows where possible and planted with grasses and shrubs suited to storm 
water treatment.
Fencing
Fencing used to screen parking shall reflect the surrounding landscape type in materials, style, and color
67
N. TRAFFIC CALMING CEDAR CREST OVERLAY - DESIGN STANDARDS
Description
A variety of traffic calming and control devices may be employed in the community to slow traffic, increase 
pedestrian safety, and increase traffic flow efficiency. Traffic calming devices include traffic circles, bulb-outs, and 
raised intersections. Traffic control mechanisms may include roundabouts, couplets, signals, and signs. 
Landscaping
Bulb-outs at intersections and pedestrian crossings shall be planted with street trees.   Trees shall be pruned to ensure 
driver visibility consistent with sight triangle guidelines.
Plantings in traffic calming areas may be native or drought tolerant plants or irrigated ornamental plants.  Planting 
types should reflect the surrounding placetypes.
Shrub and grass plantings in traffic calming areas shall not obstruct views within a range of 3-8' high
Lighting
Lighting standards to meet Eastern Summit County standards.
Accent lighting may be used at traffic calming areas to ensure pedestrian safety.
Fencing
No fencing shall be allowed in traffic calming areas.
Outdoor Furniture
Outdoor furniture shall reflect community character in materials, style, and color.
Drainage
Constructed wetlands for the treatment and retention or detention of storm water are allowed in traffic calming 
areas.
68
A. RIPARIAN / STREAM CEDAR CREST OVERLAY - DESIGN STANDARDS
Outdoor Furniture
Constructed wetlands, including open water areas, are allowed for the treatment and retention or detention of 
storm water.
Native and drought-tolerant plants may require temporary irrigation to become established.
Landscaping
Outdoor furniture shall reflect the landscape character of this zone in materials, style, and color. Outdoor furniture in 
irrigated parkland areas should match neighborhood park furniture.
Areas may be used to both convey and store storm water runoff.
Fencing
Fencing in this landscape type shall be visibly penetrable and may be used to screen undesirable views or adjacent 
land uses. Fencing may be opaque and not exceed 72” in height.
Fencing within the corridor should not impede the movement of wildlife through it.
Fencing shall reflect the landscape character of this zone in materials, style, and color. Fencing should recede into 
the landscape and not be visually dominant.
Lighting
Lighting may occur only along trails/pathways for safety purposes  and shall meet Eastern Summit County Standards
Only low-level lighting with cutoffs is allowed in the riparian/stream zone. Cut-offs protect adjacent uses from light 
source spillage and protect the night sky from light pollution.
Areas outside of the direct stream bed may be used as irrigated parkland. 
Any modification to native slopes shall be graded to reflect natural drainage patterns and be built to enhance 
visual character of slopes and withstand erosion.
Drainage Description
The riparian / stream zone is located along the natural drainage areas. The zone will be characterized by stream 
beds and basins that will flow and fill during storm events and will be enhanced with drought tolerant grasses and 
shrubs. Existing riparian/stream areas may be enhanced and/or restored to increase biodiversity and create wildlife 
habitat. Areas outside the immediate drainage corridor may be used as irrigated park lands.  The corridor will be 
used for low impact human recreation and relaxation. The corridor may also accommodate wildlife movement and 
provide habitat for small mammals and birds.
Riparian vegetation shall predominate near the constructed stream beds if it can be supported by existing 
groundwater  or nuisance runoff conditions. 
Native or drought-tolerant vegetation that is conducive to creating diverse wildlife habitat shall be used when 
revegetating disturbed areas within this zone. 
If groundwater conditions allow, riparian trees may be planted to enhance or restore the riparian character of the 
existing stream corridor. 
69
B. MEADOW CEDAR CREST OVERLAY - DESIGN STANDARDS
Description
Meadows are natural areas which are meant for reservation of public access with protections in place in order to 
preserve the natural habitat for existing plant and animal inhabitants.
Landscaping
Landscaping applications are intended to restore disturbance along edges of development while finding 
opportunities to enhance existing native conditions where appropriate.
Light imprint, low impact plant materials.  Tree clusters can also be appropriate.
If groundwater conditions allow, riparian trees  may be planted to enhance or restore the riparian character of the 
existing stream corridor. 
Lighting
No lighting in meadows.
Fencing
Fencing may be used to assist in defining the edge of where human engagement is deemed appropriate.
Primary materials for any fencing associated with a meadow must consist of natural materials.  Man-made materials 
may be considered of supportive uses.
Vinyl and chain link fencing are prohibited.
Fencing in this landscape type shall be visibly penetrable and may be used to screen undesirable views or adjacent 
land uses. Fencing may be opaque and not exceed 72” in height.
Outdoor Furniture
No outdoor furniture requirements.
Drainage
Any modification to native slopes shall be graded to reflect natural drainage patterns and be built to enhance 
visual character of slopes and withstand erosion.
70
C. NATIVE HILLSIDES CEDAR CREST OVERLAY - DESIGN STANDARDS
Description
Nature corridors are linear space defined by place type boundaries.  The space serves as connections for wildlife, 
horses, pedestrians, bicycles, etc. It can also serve as an extension of pedestrian and bicycle networks contained 
within place types. Nature corridors may be enhanced and/or restored to increase biodiversity and create wildlife 
habitat.  Nature corridors are informal space in design and engagement that also serves in creating a buffer 
between natural area and areas of development.
Existing native grasses and shrubs shall predominate in the native hillside zones. Manicured areas may line gravel 
hiking and mountain biking trails as well as asphalt or concrete multi-purpose trails in these areas.
Tree species adapted to local environmental conditions and slope aspects may be used on native hillsides for 
wildlife habitat, visual screening, and landscape variety.
If groundwater conditions allow, riparian trees  may be planted to enhance or restore the riparian character of the 
native hillsides. 
Irrigated, ornamental landscape treatments are allowed where this zone meets community entry streets and should 
reflect the landscape character of the adjacent communities. Constructed water features, including open water 
areas, are allowed at these entry points.
Fencing should not impede the movement of wildlife amongst the hillsides.
Fencing shall reflect the landscape character of this zone in materials, style, and color. Fencing should recede into 
the landscape and not be visually dominant.
Lighting may occur only along trails or pathways for safety purposes.
Only low-level lighting with cut-offs is allowed in these visually sensitive hillside zones. Cut-offs protect adjacent uses 
from light source spillage and protect the night sky from light pollution.
Lighting
Native or drought-tolerant plants may require temporary irrigation in order to become established.
LandscapingFencingOutdoor Furniture
Outdoor furniture shall reflect the open space character in materials, style, and color.
Drainage
Any modification to native slopes shall be graded to reflect natural drainage patterns and be built to enhance 
visual character of slopes and withstand erosion.
Fencing in this landscape type shall be visibly penetrable and may be used to screen undesirable views or adjacent 
land uses. Fencing may be opaque and not exceed 72” in height.
71
D. NATURE CORRIDOR CEDAR CREST OVERLAY - DESIGN STANDARDS
Description
Nature corridors are linear space defined by place type boundaries.  The space serves as connections for wildlife, 
horses, pedestrians, bicycles, etc. It can also serve as an extension of pedestrian and bicycle networks contained 
within place types. Nature corridors may be enhanced and/or restored to increase biodiversity and create wildlife 
habitat.  Nature corridors are informal space in design and engagement that also serves in creating a buffer 
between natural area and areas of development.
Landscaping
Landscaping applications are intended to restore disturbance along edges of development while finding 
opportunities to enhance existing native conditions where appropriate.
Light imprint, low impact plant materials.  Tree clusters can also be appropriate.
If groundwater conditions allow, riparian trees  may be planted to enhance or restore the riparian character of the 
existing stream corridor. 
Lighting
No lighting in nature corridor .
Fencing
Fencing may be used to assist in defining the edge of where human engagement is deemed appropriate.
Primary materials for any fencing associated with a  nature corridor must consist of natural materials.  Man-made 
materials may be considered of supportive uses.
Vinyl and chain link fencing are prohibited.
Fencing in this landscape type shall be visibly penetrable and may be used to screen undesirable views or adjacent 
land uses. Fencing may be opaque and not exceed 72” in height.
Outdoor Furniture
No outdoor furniture requirements.
Drainage
Any modification to native slopes shall be graded to reflect natural drainage patterns and be built to enhance 
visual character of slopes and withstand erosion.
72
E. AGRICULTURE CEDAR CREST OVERLAY - DESIGN STANDARDSDescription
Agricultural open space is intended to utilize existing or dedicated open spaces to maintain existing functional 
agricultural operations.  This open space type provides a desired public benefit. If agriculture use is no longer 
desired or viable, the land must transition to another open space type. 
Landscaping
Agricultural crops rather than native or ornamental plant materials. 
Agricultural irrigation techniques will be used.
If groundwater conditions allow, riparian trees may be planted to enhance or restore the riparian character of the 
existing stream corridor. 
Lighting
No lighting requirements.
Fencing
Fencing must account for deterring animals, while also being appropriate to the nature of any adjacent place 
types.
Vinyl and chain link fencing are prohibited.
Fencing in this landscape type shall be visibly penetrable and may be used to screen undesirable views or adjacent 
land uses. Fencing may be opaque and not exceed 72” in height.
Outdoor Furniture
No outdoor furniture requirements.
Drainage
This area may also be used for storm water treatment and/or retention.  Constructed wetlands, including open 
water areas, are allowed for the treatment and retention or detention of storm water.
73
F. RAIL-TO-TRAIL CORRIDOR CEDAR CREST OVERLAY - DESIGN STANDARDSDescription
The rail to trail corridor is defined by the current rail-to-trail alignment. The corridor shall be predominantly planted 
with native or drought-tolerant plant species. Irrigated, ornamental plantings are allowed at entries to the 
community and along regional trail connections and trailheads. Plantings are intended to enhance aesthetics and 
to buffer surrounding uses from the highway.  
Landscaping
Native, drought and salt tolerant vegetation shall predominate along the transportation corridor. Tree species 
adapted to local environmental conditions and slope aspects may be used for small game wildlife habitat, visual 
screening and landscape variety.
Irrigated, ornamental landscape treatments are allowed at entries and intersections and should reflect the 
landscape character of the adjacent communities.
If groundwater conditions allow, riparian trees may be planted to enhance or restore the riparian character of the 
existing stream corridor. 
Native or drought-tolerant plants may require temporary irrigation in order to become established.
Lighting
Lighting style shall meet Eastern Summit County standards.
Highway lighting should employ cutoffs to minimize light pollution and focus light on the highway.
Fencing
Fencing shall reflect adjacent architectural character in materials, style and color including R.O.W. fencing and 
safety fencing.
Vinyl and chain link fencing are prohibited.
Fencing in this landscape type shall be visibly penetrable and may be used to screen undesirable views or adjacent 
land uses. Fencing may be opaque and not exceed 72” in height.
Outdoor Furniture
Outdoor furniture shall reflect community character in materials, style, and color.
Drainage
This area may also be used for storm water treatment and/or retention
Any modification to native slopes shall be graded to reflect natural drainage patterns and be built to enhance 
visual character of slopes and withstand erosion.
74
G. PARKWAYS CEDAR CREST OVERLAY - DESIGN STANDARDS
Description
Parkways are wide open space corridors that are bounded by community streets. Parkways will be planted primarily 
with native or drought-tolerant plants. Irrigated, manicured active recreation areas and parks are allowed and 
encouraged. Parkways accommodate small game wildlife movement by linking habitat areas and enhance storm 
water management by retaining and detaining surface runoff in constructed wetlands. The community trail system 
utilizes parkways to link major open space components to key place types such as neighborhood and village 
centers.
Parkways may be used as vegetative windbreak spines. Vegetative windbreaks reduce wind velocities at ground 
level.
Active recreation areas located within parkways may include irrigated turf grass play areas and ornamental 
plantings.
If groundwater conditions allow, riparian trees  may be planted to enhance or restore the riparian character of the 
existing stream corridor. 
Shrubs and hedges in street side planters shall not exceed 30” high.
Landscaping
Fencing in this landscape type shall be visibly penetrable and may be used to screen undesirable views or adjacent 
land uses. Fencing may be opaque and not exceed 72” in height.
Lighting
Lighting standards shall meet Eastern Summit County standards.
Only low level lighting with cutoffs to ensure pedestrian safety is allowed along internal pathways and trails.
Highway lighting should employ cutoffs to minimize light pollution and focus light on the highway.
Constructed wetlands, including open water areas, are allowed for the treatment and retention or detention of 
storm water.
Native or drought-tolerant plants may require temporary irrigation in order to become established.
Outdoor Furniture
Outdoor furniture shall reflect community character in materials, style, and color.
Bench seating shall be located at convenient locations along trails and at civic nodes.
Drainage
This area may also be used for storm water treatment and/or retention
Fencing
No fencing in parkways is allowed other than service screening and safety fencing.
Vinyl and chain link fencing are prohibited.
75
H. TRAILHEAD CEDAR CREST OVERLAY - DESIGN STANDARDS
Description
A trailhead is a designated public access point to a trail, often—but not always—located at its terminus points. The 
trailhead is typically a place where users begin or end their journeys and where they get oriented to the trail or trail 
network.  Trailheads can act as the interface between trails and their adjacent communities.  A trailhead tends to 
be a developed site, purposefully designed to provide amenities to trail users.  Small area parking should be 
considered.
Landscaping
Trailhead landscaping can be more formalized since it serves as a transitional point between connector and nature 
trails.
Light imprint, low impact plant materials.  Tree clusters can also be appropriate.
If groundwater conditions allow, riparian trees may be planted to enhance or restore the riparian character of the 
existing stream corridor. 
Lighting
Only low level lighting with cut-offs to ensure pedestrian safety is allowed along internal pathways and trails.
Fencing
Vinyl and chain link fencing are prohibited.
Fencing in this landscape type shall be visibly penetrable and may be used to screen undesirable views or adjacent 
land uses. Fencing may be opaque and not exceed 72” in height.
Outdoor Furniture
Signage, benches, garbage receptacles, bathrooms, drinking fountains, picnic pavilions are all possible 
applications.
Drainage
76
I. PASEO CEDAR CREST OVERLAY - DESIGN STANDARDSDescription
Paseos are linear pedestrian corridors that are defined by homes fronting the space.  Often includes passive 
activities as well as tot lots, community gardens, and neighborhood games.
Landscaping
Formal landscaping reflecting the character of the adjacent residential properties.
Limited turf, shade trees, ornamental plantings.
If groundwater conditions allow, riparian trees may be planted to enhance or restore the riparian character of the 
existing stream corridor. 
Low flow and drip irrigation.  Sprinkler heads when turf is used.
Lighting
Only low level lighting with cut-offs to ensure pedestrian safety is allowed along internal pathways and trails.
Fencing
Fencing along paseos may occur on private lots in the form of picket fencing.
Vinyl and chain link fencing are prohibited.
Fencing in this landscape type shall be visibly penetrable and may be used to screen undesirable views or adjacent 
land uses. Fencing may be opaque and not exceed 72” in height.
Outdoor Furniture
Recreation, accessory structure, water fountains, paths and trails
Drainage
77
J. COMMUNITY GARDEN CEDAR CREST OVERLAY - DESIGN STANDARDSDescription
Community gardens are spaces programmed specifically for gardening.  Located in the center of a neighborhood 
to provide convenient and safe access, they can also be included in pocket parks or neighborhood parks. 
Landscaping
Landscaping applications are intended to frame the space between fencing and pedestrian paths.  Inside fencing 
consists of aggregate pathways and raised planter boxes.
Ornamental plantings.
If groundwater conditions allow, riparian trees may be planted to enhance or restore the riparian character of the 
existing stream corridor. 
Lighting
Only low level lighting with cut-offs to ensure pedestrian safety is allowed along internal pathways and trails.
Fencing
Fencing must account for deterring animals, while also being appropriate to the nature of the place type in which 
the community garden resides.
Vinyl and chain link fencing are prohibited.
Fencing in this landscape type shall be visibly penetrable and may be used to screen undesirable views or adjacent 
land uses. Fencing may be opaque and not exceed 72” in height.
Outdoor Furniture
Signage, benches, garbage receptacles are all possible applications.
Drainage
78
K. NEIGHBORHOOD PARKS CEDAR CREST OVERLAY - DESIGN STANDARDS
Description
Neighborhood parks are 1-2 acre parks located throughout the community in neighborhoods and centers. 
Neighborhood parks may share parking, open space, and other common amenities with neighborhood schools and 
churches. Commercial uses such as vending and retail kiosks and food trucks are allowed in neighborhood parks or 
adjacent neighborhood streets. This park type should have a public or private street along at least one edge and 
may not be located next to rear property lines.
Landscaping
Neighborhood parks may include active or passive recreation areas of irrigated turf grasses and ornamental 
plantings.
Landscape character should match scale and character of the neighborhood.
If groundwater conditions allow, riparian trees may be planted to enhance or restore the riparian character of the 
existing stream corridor. 
Constructed wetlands, including open water areas, are allowed for the treatment and retention or detention of 
storm water.
No chain link fencing allowed around schoolyards . Chain link fencing only allowed at active recreation ball fields 
for spectator safety.
Lighting
Low-level pedestrian-scaled lighting along pathways/trails and at public facilities.
* Regulation of items such as design character, building materials, architectural features, massing, etc. shall be governed by an architectural
pattern book for the Cedar Crest Overlay.
Fencing in this landscape type shall be visibly penetrable and may be used to screen undesirable views or adjacent 
land uses. Fencing may be opaque and not exceed 72” in height.
FencingOutdoor Furniture
Outdoor furniture shall reflect community character in materials, style, and color.
Bench seating shall be located at convenient locations along trails and at civic nodes.
Drainage
May also be used for storm water treatment and/or retention.  Constructed wetlands, including open water areas, 
are allowed for the treatment and retention or detention of storm water.
All service areas shall be screened with opaque fences or walls.
Fencing used as screens may be as tall as necessary to perform their function.
Fences and walls shall match associated architecture in materials and style.
79
L. POCKET PARKS CEDAR CREST OVERLAY - DESIGN STANDARDSDescription
Pocket parks are generally no larger than 1/3 to 1/2 acre parks located throughout the neighborhoods and centers . 
These parks may also integrate into the other park and open space types. Pocket parks are organized around one 
or two distinct land uses and provide relaxation and recreation opportunities for community residents. Pocket parks 
may be mostly urban with hard paving and trees in tree grates or may be irrigated gardens. Commercial uses such 
as vending, retail kiosks, and food trucks are allowed in and around pocket parks subject to reasable regulation by 
the Master Owners Association. This park type should have a public or private street along at least one edge and 
may not be located next to rear property lines.
Landscaping
Pocket parks may include irrigated turf grasses and ornamental plantings.
Landscape character should match scale and character of the neighborhood.
If groundwater conditions allow, riparian trees may be planted to enhance or restore the riparian character of the 
existing stream corridor. 
Lighting
Low-level pedestrian-scaled lighting along pathways/trails and at public facilities.
Fencing
All service areas shall be screened with opaque fences or walls.
Fencing in this landscape type shall be visibly penetrable and may be used to screen undesirable views or adjacent 
land uses. Fencing may be opaque and not exceed 72” in height.
Fences and walls shall match associated architecture in materials and style.
Privacy fencing may not abut parks
Outdoor Furniture
Outdoor furniture shall reflect community character in materials, style and color.
Drainage
May also be used for storm water treatment and/or retention.  Constructed wetlands, including open water areas, 
are allowed for the treatment and retention or detention of storm water.
80
M. SPECIAL USE CEDAR CREST OVERLAY - DESIGN STANDARDS
Description
Covers a broad range of parks and recreation facilities oriented toward single purpose use. Special uses generally 
fall into three categories: Historic/Cultural/Social Sites (ex: historic downtown areas, performing arts parks, 
arboretums, ornamental gardens, indoor theaters, churches, public buildings and amphitheaters). Recreation 
facilities (i.e. either specialized or single-purpose facilities) fall into this category; for example, community centers, 
senior centers, hockey arenas, marinas, golf courses and aquatic parks. Frequently community buildings and 
recreational facilities are located within neighborhood parks and community parks.
LandscapingLighting FencingOutdoor FurnitureDrainage
81
4866-7119-6021 
 
 
68 
 
Land Use Maps 
 
(Attached) 
 
82
4866-7119-6021 
 
 
69 
 
Infrastructure Plan 
 
(Attached) 
83
4866-7119-6021 
 
 
70 
 
 84
4866-7119-6021 
 
 
71 
 
 85
4866-7119-6021 
 
 
72 
 
 86
4866-7119-6021 
 
 
73 
 
 87
4866-7119-6021 
 
 
74 
 
 
88
Outline of Applicable Code Tables 
 
CODE SECTION PAGE 
Standards from Village Overlay (11-3-8) Table 1 Page 2 
Standards from Master Planned Development (MPD) Requirements (11-4-
12(E)) Table 2 
Page 3-8 
Standards from  11-5-3(B) Amendment To Zone District Map 
(Rezoning) Table 3 
Page 9 
Standards from Infrastructure Standards (11-6-8) Table 4 Page 10 
Standards from Development Evaluation Standards (11-2) Table 5 Page 11-15 
 
  
89
Standards from Village Overlay (11-3-8):  
The Village Overlay Committee shall develop a plan and proposed zoning districts that 
address the following: 
 
Table 1 
CODE STANDARD ANALYSIS 
VO Standard 1 – Land Uses: A mix of 
residential uses may be considered, including 
detached single-family, attached single-
family, and multi-family. Mixed-use land-uses 
may also be considered, including residential, 
commercial, service commercial, and light 
industrial. 
 
VO Standard 2 – Density: A proposed zoning 
district densities shall be based upon 
sufficient access, circulation, connectivity, 
water, and wastewater infrastructure. 
 
VO Standard 3 – Development Standards: 
Requirements for development, including but 
not limited to minimum lot sizes, building 
height, setbacks, parking, streets and 
circulation, community/civic space, and 
infrastructure. 
 
VO Standard 4 – Infrastructure: 
Infrastructure implementation including 
financing and phasing. 
 
 
  
90
Standards from Master Planned Development (MPD) Requirements (11-4-12(E)):  
 
Table 2 
CODE STANDARD ANALYSIS 
1. Density: The maximum density 
permitted on the project site will be 
determined as a result of a site analysis. 
The maximum density shall not exceed 
that set forth in the proposed or existing 
zone, except as otherwise provided in this 
section. In cases where a project site 
contains more than one (1) zone, the 
County Council may permit the clustering 
of density irrespective of zone boundaries 
so long as the relocation results in the 
project advancing the goals set forth in 
the General Plan. 
 
2. Density Bonus: A density bonus may 
be permitted in accordance with 
appendix B of this title. 
 
3. Setbacks: The minimum setback 
around the exterior boundary of an MPD 
shall match the setbacks of the more 
restrictive/larger abutting zone setback. 
In some cases, that setback may be 
increased to create an adequate buffer to 
adjacent uses. The County Council may 
reduce or increase setbacks within the 
project from those otherwise required 
provided the project meets minimum 
Building Code and Fire Code 
requirements and can demonstrate that 
such change: 
a. Maximizes agricultural land or open 
space; and/or 
b. Avoids important natural features 
of the site. 
 
 
4. Building Height: The maximum 
building height for all structures within a 
master planned development shall not 
exceed the zone standard. The County 
Council may grant additional building 
height beyond the maximum zone 
standard up to forty five feet (45') based 
 
91
on demonstrated good cause related, but 
not limited to, structured parking, 
affordable housing, deed restricted open 
space, community outdoor common area 
improvements or superior architectural 
design. 
5. Reduction Of Minimum Lot Size 
Requirements: The County Council may 
reduce the minimum lot size specified in 
a zone if it finds the proposed decrease in 
minimum lot size improves the site 
design, clustering of buildings, and/or 
preservation of agricultural land or open 
space. 
 
6. Open Space: Master planned 
developments shall provide for open 
space of at least ten percent (10%) of the 
site area. 
 
7. Off-Street Parking: Master planned 
developments shall meet the following 
off-street parking standards: 
a. Residential uses: 
1) Single family dwelling unit 
Minimum 2 spaces/unit 
2) Duplex dwelling unit  
Minimum 2 spaces/unit (total of 
4/building) 
3) Accessory dwelling unit  
Minimum 1 space/unit 
4) Guest house  
Minimum 1 space/unit 
5) Multi-unit (3 or more units) 
Minimum 1 space/unit 
b. Non-residential uses: 
1) Commercial/retail  
3 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. of net 
leasable floor area 
2) Commercial/restaurant-café  
3 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. of net 
leasable floor area 
3) Hotel/lodging  
1 space/guest room or suite;  
2 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. support 
commercial 
4) Offices  
 
92
2.5 spaces/1,000 sq. ft. net 
leasable area 
The off-street parking requirements for 
any other uses not listed above shall be 
determined by the County Council based 
on a project-specific parking study. The 
County Council may reduce or increase 
the overall parking requirement for a 
master planned development based upon 
the applicant demonstrating reasonable 
justifications for the increase/decrease in 
parking spaces. 
The County Council may grant additional 
exterior/surface parking provided such 
parking is designed to include permeable 
surfaces, additional landscaping and 
buffering. 
8. Designing With The Topography: 
Master planned developments shall be 
designed to fit into the topography of the 
site. The County Council may consider 
flexibility in the siting of development so 
as to best fit into the natural terrain, 
minimize excessive site grading and 
mitigate impacts on the natural 
environment and resources of the 
surrounding area. The project design shall 
demonstrate the preservation of 
watercourses, drainage areas, wooded 
areas, rough terrain and similar natural 
features and areas. 
 
9. Designing With Adjacent Uses: The 
master planned development plan shall 
take adjacent land uses into 
consideration. Development along the 
project perimeter shall adequately 
mitigate any potentially adverse effects, 
including but not limited to flooding, 
erosion, subsidence, sloping of the soil or 
other dangers and nuisances. 
 
10. Access: All master planned 
developments shall have vehicular access 
from a public road. All projects shall have 
a secondary point of access/emergency 
access unless otherwise mitigated to the 
 
93
satisfaction of the County Engineer 
and/or Fire Marshal. All roads/streets 
shall follow the natural contours of the 
site wherever possible to minimize the 
amount of grading. 
11. Utilities: Existing or proposed utilities, 
including private and public services for 
master planned developments will be 
adequate to support the proposed 
project at normal service levels and will 
be designed in a manner to avoid adverse 
impacts on adjacent land uses, public 
services, and utility resources. Unless 
otherwise permitted by this chapter, all 
master planned developments shall 
comply with all requisite infrastructure 
standards found in chapter 6 of this title. 
 
12. Building Locations: All buildings shall 
be located to avoid, to the extent 
practicable, wetlands, riparian areas, 
steep slopes and ridgelines. Building 
locations and associated lot 
configurations should be oriented to 
encourage active and passive solar design 
principles wherever practicable. 
 
13. Connectivity: Internal and external 
vehicular/pedestrian/bicycle circulation 
should be demonstrated at the time of 
application as deemed necessary by the 
County Council. 
Pedestrian/equestrian/bicycle circulation 
should be separated from vehicular 
circulation wherever reasonable. 
 
14. Snow Storage: Master planned 
developments shall include adequate 
areas for snow removal and snow 
storage. An appropriate form of 
landscaping plan shall allow for snow 
storage areas. Structures shall be set back 
from any hard surfaces so as to provide 
adequate areas to remove and store 
snow. The assumption is that snow 
should be able to be stored on site and 
not removed to an off-site location. 
 
94
15. Outdoor Lighting: All outdoor lighting 
shall be down directed and fully shielded. 
All outdoor lighting shall be designed and 
installed to prevent light trespass on 
adjacent properties. Lighting of the 
United States flag is exempt from this 
provision. 
 
16. Compliance With Development 
Evaluation Standards: Unless otherwise 
permitted by this chapter, all master 
planned developments shall comply with 
all requisite development evaluation 
standards found in chapter 2 of this title. 
See Table 5 Below 
17. Site Design Narrative: An application for a 
master planned development shall include a 
written explanation. 
a. Neighborhood Connectivity: How does 
the proposed development interconnect 
and the surrounding properties, 
neighborhood, and area? Including but 
not limited to: 
1) Where will vehicles enter and exit 
the site? 
2) Where will new streets be 
developed? 
3) Is there a need for pedestrian and 
bicycle routes (including trails and 
sidewalks) through the project area? 
If so, how are such needs 
addressed? 
 
b. Availability Of Neighborhood Facilities 
And Services: Is the location of the 
proposed development within reasonable 
proximity (including walking and biking) 
to community facilities such as schools, 
retail centers, parks, etc.? 
 
c. Meeting Housing Needs: How does the 
proposed development advance the 
community need for a mix of housing 
types and affordability? 
 
d. Character: What are the architectural 
design character objectives of the 
proposed development? How do these 
design objectives address the local 
 
95
context, climate, and/or community 
needs 
e. Site Design: How is the proposed 
development designed to take advantage 
of the existing topography, landscape 
features, trees, wildlife corridors, existing 
structures, minimize site grading, etc.? 
 
f. Complete Street Design: How is the 
proposed development street/circulation 
system designed to accommodate a 
variety of transportation modes (where 
appropriate), easy route finding, and safe 
speeds? 
 
g. Parking Areas: How does the proposed 
development balance the need for 
parking with the need to design parking 
areas in a manner that minimize visibility, 
site grading, and exterior lighting? 
 
h. Public And Private Outdoor Spaces: 
What are the proposed development's 
need(s) for outdoor space, open space, 
habitat/wildlife areas, parks, or outdoor 
amenity areas? How does the proposed 
development address these needs? 
 
i. External Storage: How does the 
proposed project address needs for 
garbage collection, equipment storage, 
etc.? 
 
 
  
96
Standards from 11-5-3(B) Amendment To Zone District Map (Rezoning) 
Approval of an amendment to the zone district map shall not be granted until both the planning 
commission and county council have reviewed the specific development proposal and 
determined: 
 
Table 3 
CODE STANDARD ANALYSIS 
(1) The amendment is generally 
consistent with the goals of the general 
plan; 
 
(2) The amendment is compatible with 
adjacent land uses and will not be overly 
burdensome on the local community; 
 
(3) The specific development plan is in 
compliance with all applicable standards 
and criteria for approval as described in 
chapter 4 of this title;  
 
(4) The amendment does not adversely 
affect the public health, safety and 
general welfare. 
 
 
 
  
97
Standards from Infrastructure Standards (11-6-8) 
The MPD review requires compliance with the Infrastructure Standards outlined in Chapter 6 of 
the Development Code. 
 
Table 4 
CODE STANDARD ANALYSIS 
A. Fire Protection Standards  
B. Road Standards 
 
C. Road Grades 
 
D. Intersections 
 
E. Turnaround/Cul-De-Sacs 
 
F. Bridges and Culverts  
G. Driveway Access   
H. Irrigation Ditch Easements  
I. Revised Standards Applicable  
J. Appeals  
 
  
98
Standards from Development Evaluation Standards (11-2) 
The MPD review requires compliance with the Development Evaluation Standards in Chapter 2 
of the Development Code. However, many of those standards have been addressed in previous 
tables above. The remaining standards for development are addressed below. 
 
Table 5 
STANDARD ANALYSIS 
11-2-2 Agriculture 
 
A. Plat Notes and Memorandums: 
Nonagricultural development shall not be 
approved without appropriate plat notes and 
memorandums of understanding, as 
described in this title, that educate new 
residents of the presence of agriculture 
operations in Eastern Summit County and 
protect the rights of farmers and ranchers to 
actively conduct normal operations 
associated with the farm or ranch. 
 
B. Minimization Of Complaints: 
Nonagricultural development shall not be 
approved in an agricultural area without 
appropriate efforts from the developer to 
minimize potential complaints from future 
residents of the development regarding 
noise, odor, length of work hours, and the 
normal characteristics of the agricultural 
operation 
 
 C.   Livestock Fencing: New, 
nonagricultural development immediately 
adjacent to an existing agricultural operation 
(defined by this title as "agriculture") shall 
not be approved unless the developer and/or 
subsequent owners of property within the 
development assume the responsibility for 
fencing or paying one-half (1/2) of the cost 
thereof for fencing out livestock in 
accordance with Utah Code.  
 
D. Preservation Of Agricultural Land: New 
nonagricultural development within Eastern 
Summit County shall preserve productive 
agricultural land to the extent possible and 
practical. 
 
99
E. Irrigation Patterns And Systems: 
Nonagricultural development shall preserve 
the integrity of existing irrigation patterns and 
systems. Surface irrigation ditches shall be 
mapped and easements of record created.  
 
11-2-3 Water and Sewage 
A.   Order Of State Engineer Required: 
New residential, commercial and industrial 
development shall not be approved in 
accordance with the provisions of chapter 4 of 
this title, nor shall a building permit be issued 
on a previously platted lot, without evidence 
of a memorandum of decision from the State 
Engineer demonstrating that water rights of 
adequate quantity are available on the site 
and that water pursuant to such water rights 
can be used on the site by the applicant to 
serve the proposed uses/lots, or a 
commitment from a municipality or private 
service company to provide water of 
adequate quantity and quality to serve the 
proposed use/lot. However, lots within all 
subdivisions consisting of three (3) or less 
lots shall not be required to have a 
memorandum of decision from the State 
Engineer nor commitment from a municipality 
or private service company for each lot. The 
applicant shall submit documentation 
indicating what type of water system shall be 
utilized within the subdivision consisting of 
three (3) or less lots, i.e., private wells, 
municipality or private service company. 
 
B. Capacity And Capability: No new 
development or building permit for a 
previously platted lot, for which water and/or 
sewer service will be provided by a private 
service provider, will be approved until the 
service provider has submitted 
documentation demonstrating that it has the 
capacity and capability to serve the 
development/lot and that it is committed to 
providing the service. 
 
C. Sewage Collection: New residential, 
commercial and industrial development shall 
not be approved in the vicinity of existing well 
and spring protection zones, which are used 
for domestic consumption purposes, without a 
contained sewage collection and disposal 
system. The impact on protection zones shall 
be determined based on distance, soil 
conditions, slope and drainage patterns, or in 
 
100
compliance with State law. Individual septic 
disposal systems will not be allowed when 
these zones can be impacted. 
D. Sewage Treatment: No development shall 
be approved without suitable sewage 
treatment capacity point of discharge, and 
dependability for the specific use proposed. 
 
E. Adequate Water: No building permit, low 
impact use, conditional use or commercial 
or industrial development shall be approved 
without adequate water quantity, quality, 
pressure and dependability to support the 
use intended and to provide for protection 
from fire. 
 
11-2-4 Natural Resources 
A. Undevelopable Lands: Development is 
prohibited on land which is found, on the 
basis of engineering and/or geologic data, to 
be within a geological hazard area. 
 
B. Erosion: Care shall be taken to ensure 
that development shall not contribute to the 
acceleration of the erosion of soil and rock 
and stream sedimentation or cause other 
significant environmental concerns. 
 
C. Hillside Development: Development shall 
minimize the highly visible placement of 
homes and other structures on hillsides. 
Whenever possible, development shall be 
sensitively sited in order to encourage 
effective open space and the conservation of 
the natural appearance and aesthetic beauty 
of the mountains. When hillside development 
is permitted, it shall be integrated into the site, 
using topography, vegetation and other 
reasonable techniques, in a manner that 
causes it to blend into the hillside. 
Development near the toe of the hill, including 
the transitional area between the hillside and 
flat meadow areas, is appropriate. 
 
D. Floodplain: Development shall be strongly 
discouraged in a 100-year floodplain or in 
areas where there is a high water table. 
 
E. Wetlands: Development is prohibited in 
wetlands unless appropriate mitigation is 
approved by the Army Corps of Engineers. 
 
F. Natural Grade Slopes (Prohibition): 
Development is prohibited on natural grade 
slopes in excess of thirty percent (30%). 
 
G. Natural Grade Slopes (Exception): In the 
event a conforming parcel has no locations 
(or insufficient area) for otherwise permissible 
 
101
development without violating subsection F of 
this section, or in the event access to a 
suitable development area on a conforming 
parcel requires the crossing of an area of 
thirty percent (30%) slope, the Community 
Development Director may approve 
development as a low impact permit subject 
to the findings in section 11-4-8 of this title 
and the additional findings outlined in 11-2-
4(G). 
H. Wildlife, Range Areas, Migration 
Corridors: Care shall be taken to ensure that 
development shall not significantly affect in a 
negative fashion wildlife birthing areas, critical 
winter range areas and migration corridors. 
 
I. Ridgeline Development (Prohibition): 
Ridgeline development shall not be 
placed on any hillside or ridgeline in a 
manner that causes any portion of a 
structure to extend into the skyline as 
viewed from a public road when: 
1. The public road is located below the 
ground elevation of the structure; and 
2. The public road is more than one-half 
(1/2) linear miles from the structure, 
measured from the proposed building 
location; and 
3. The public road is less than one and 
one-half (11/2) linear miles from the 
structure, measured from the 
proposed building location.  
 
J. Ridgeline Development (Exception): 
Where it is not possible to build on a 
conforming parcel without violating the 
prohibition in subsection I of this section, the 
Community Development Director may 
approve ridgeline development as a low 
impact permit subject to the findings in 
section 11-4-8 of this title and all of the 
additional criteria outlined in 11-2-4(J). 
 
K. Drainage: Development activity shall 
not cause run-off characteristics of a 
parcel to be more disruptive to perennial, 
intermittent and ephemeral streams, land 
uses or drainage systems, than existed 
prior to the development activity. The 
 
102
integrity of existing and natural drainage 
patterns shall be preserved so that: 
1.The aggregate of development 
activities will not cause storm 
drainage and floodwater patterns to 
exceed the capacity of natural or 
constructed drainages; 
2. Other areas are not subjected to 
increased potential for damage by 
flood, erosion or sedimentation; and 
3. Perennial, intermittent, and 
ephemeral streams are not 
contaminated with pollutants in 
violation of State and/or Federal 
standards. 
L. Air Quality: Development shall not 
contribute significantly to the degradation of 
air quality in the County, including violation of 
any applicable State and/or Federal pollution 
control laws. 
 
M. Noise Limits: Non-agriculture 
development activity shall not generate 
noise: 
1. Equal to or exceeding sixty (60) 
decibels, as measured at the property 
line of the parcel generating the 
noise; and 
2. Which would result in materially 
adverse impacts relating to the use of 
the parcel generating the noise, or to 
adjacent parcels and/or its 
occupants. 
 
 
 
 
 
103
Zone Acres Existing  Base Existing  + Bonus
If all AG‐5 
parcels rezoned 
to R‐2.5 R‐2.5 + Bonus
AG‐5 862.13 195.566 219 360.052 448
AG‐10 2.35 33 3 3
198.566 222 363.052 451Total Units
Exhibit C ‐ Density Comparison
104
 
 
 
 
 
 
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202     Lehi, UT 84043     p 801.766.4343    
www.halesengineering.com 
 
LHM Master Plan 
Traffic Impact Study 
 
Hoytsville, Utah 
 
April 12, 2024 
UT23-2414 
 
04/12/2024
NO. 12335093
JOSHUA D.
GIBBONS
105326
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 i
  
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
This study addresses the traffic impacts associated  with the proposed LHM Master Plan 
development located in Hoytsville, Utah. The development is located on the east and west sides 
of Hoytsville Road between Judd Lane and Hobson Lane. 
The purpose of this traffic impact study is to anal yze traffic operations at key intersections for 
existing (2023) and future (2025) conditions without the proposed project, and future (2025, 2030, 
and 2040) conditions with the proposed project and to recommend mitigation measures as 
needed. The morning and evening peak hour level of service (LOS) results are shown in Table 
ES-1. Recommended storage lengths are shown in Tabl e ES-2. Exhibits of the proposed 
mitigated roadway network is shown in Figures ES-1 through ES-4. 
Table ES-1: Peak Hour Level of Service Results 
 
  
106327
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 ii 
  
Table ES-2: Recommended Storage Length 
 
SUMMARY OF KEY FINDINGS & RECOMMENDATIONS 
Project Conditions  
• The development will consist of various commercial  and residential land uses 
• The project is anticipated to generate approximate ly 23,431 weekday daily trips, including 1,434 trip s in the 
morning peak hour, and 1,963 trips in the evening peak hour 
• The following auxiliary lanes are recommended by 2 040: 
o Access 1 / Hoytsville Rd: NB left-turn and SB righ t-turn 
o Access 2 / Hoytsville Rd: NB and SB left-turn and SB right-turn 
o Access 3 / Hoytsville Rd: NB left-turn 
o Access 6 / Hoytsville Rd: NB and SB left- and righ t-turn 
o Access 7 / Hoytsville Rd: SB left-turn 
o Access 10 / Hoytsville Rd: SB left-turn 
o Spring Canyon Rd: NB right-turn and SB left-turn 
o Creamery Ln / Hoytsville Rd: NB left-turn and SB r ight-turn 
o Hobson Lane / Hoytsville Rd: NB left-turn and SB r ight-turn 
2023 Background 
Findings • Acceptable LOS 
2025 Background Plus Project 
Assumptions  • 1.5% growth rate • First phase complete 
Findings • Acceptable LOS • Acceptable LOS 
107328
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 iii 
  
2030 Plus Project 
Assumptions  • Red Hills development added to background 
• Second project phase complete 
Findings • Acceptable LOS 
Mitigations 
• 100 South / Main St:  
o Install traffic signal 
§ This may require the removal of some on-street par king 
o Install NB left-turn pocket and SB right-turn pock et 
2040 Plus Project 
Assumptions  • Full build 
Findings • Acceptable LOS 
Mitigations 
• SB I-80 Ramps / 100 South: 
o Install traffic signal 
o Install WB left-turn and EB and SB right-turn lane s 
• 100 South / Main St: 
o Implement NB permissive/protected left-turn phasin g 
o Implement EB right-turn signal timing overlap 
• Hobson Ln / Hoytsville Rd : 
o Install EB and SB right-turn lanes and NB left-tur n lane 
• Spring Canyon Rd / Hoytsville Rd: 
o Install NB and WB right-turn lanes 
• Old Lincoln Hwy / S.R. 32: 
o Install AWSC 
• EB I-80 Ramps / S.R. 32: 
o Install separate EB right-turn pocket 
• Access 2 / Hoytsville Rd: 
o Install EB and WB right-turn pockets 
• Access 6 / Hoytsville Rd: 
o Install traffic signal 
o Install EB and WB left- and right-turn lanes 
• Access 10 / Hoytsville Rd: 
o Install WB right-turn pocket 
 
  
108329
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Mitigated Model Figure ES-1
 
Hales Engineering 801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West Ste 202, Lehi, UT, 84043 09/20/2023
SB I-80 On Ramp
Icy Spring Road
SB I-80 Off Ramp
NB I-80 Off Ramp
100 South
NB I-80 On Ramp
100 South
Main Street
Key
  Project Type
            Install Left-turn Lane
            Install Right-turn Lane
            Traffic Signal (when warranted)
            All-Way Stop Control (AWSC)
109330
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Mitigated Model Figure ES-2
Hales Engineering 801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West Ste 202, Lehi, UT, 84043 09/21/2023
Hobson Lane 
Hoytsville Road 
Access 10 
Key
  Project Type
            Install Left-turn Lane
            Install Right-turn Lane
            Traffic Signal (when warranted)
            All-Way Stop Control
110331
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Mitigated Model Figure ES-3
Hales Engineering 801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West Ste 202, Lehi, UT, 84043 09/20/2023
Access 1
Access 2
Access 2
Hoytsville Road
Access 3
Access 4
Creamery Lane
Access 5
Access 6
Access 6
Access 7
Spring Canyon Road
Access 8
Access 9
Key
  Project Type
            Install Left-turn Lane
            Install Right-turn Lane
            Traffic Signal (when warranted)
            All-Way Stop Control (AWSC)
111332
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Mitigated Model Figure ES-4
Hales Engineering 801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West Ste 202, Lehi, UT, 84043 09/20/2023
SE Wanship Road
Old Lincoln Highway
Old Lincoln Highway
SB I-80 Off Ramp
West Hoytsville Road
Hoytsville Road
Old Lincoln Highway W
B I-80 On Ram
p
S.R. 32
EB I-80 Off Ram
p
EB I-80 On Ramp
Key
  Project Type
            Install Left-turn Lane
            Install Right-turn Lane
            Traffic Signal (when warranted)
            All-Way Stop Control (AWSC)
112333
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 viii 
  
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ............................................................................................................................... i 
SUMMARY OF KEY FINDINGS & RECOMMENDATIONS ......................................................................... ii  
TABLE OF CONTENTS ............................................................................................................................ viii  
LIST OF TABLES ........................................................................................................................................ ix  
LIST OF FIGURES ...................................................................................................................................... ix 
I.  INTRODUCTION .................................................................................................................................. 1 
A.  Purpose ................................................................................................................................................. 1 
B.  Scope .................................................................................................................................................... 2 
C.  Analysis Methodology ........................................................................................................................... 2 
D.  Level of Service Standards ................................................................................................................... 2 
II.  EXISTING (2023) BACKGROUND CONDITIONS............................................................................... 4 
A.  Purpose ................................................................................................................................................. 4 
B.  Roadway System .................................................................................................................................. 4 
C.  Traffic Volumes ..................................................................................................................................... 4 
D.  Level of Service Analysis ...................................................................................................................... 5 
E.  Queuing Analysis .................................................................................................................................. 5 
F.  Mitigation Measures .............................................................................................................................. 8 
III.  FUTURE (2025) BACKGROUND CONDITIONS ................................................................................. 9 
A.  Purpose ................................................................................................................................................. 9 
B.  Roadway Network ................................................................................................................................. 9 
C.  Traffic Volumes ..................................................................................................................................... 9 
D.  Level of Service Analysis ...................................................................................................................... 9 
E.  Queuing Analysis .................................................................................................................................. 9 
F.  Mitigation Measures .............................................................................................................................. 9 
IV.  PROJECT CONDITIONS ................................................................................................................... 13  
A.  Purpose ............................................................................................................................................... 13  
B.  Project Description .............................................................................................................................. 13  
C.  Trip Generation ................................................................................................................................... 13  
D.  Trip Distribution and Assignment ........................................................................................................ 14  
E.  Access ................................................................................................................................................. 15  
F.  Auxiliary Lanes .................................................................................................................................... 25  
G.  Functional Classification ..................................................................................................................... 26  
H.  Active Transportation .......................................................................................................................... 26  
V.  FUTURE (2025) PLUS PROJECT CONDITIONS .............................................................................. 27  
A.  Purpose ............................................................................................................................................... 27  
B.  Traffic Volumes ................................................................................................................................... 27  
C.  Level of Service Analysis .................................................................................................................... 27  
D.  Queuing Analysis ................................................................................................................................ 27  
E.  Mitigation Measures ............................................................................................................................ 27  
VI.  FUTURE (2030) PLUS PROJECT CONDITIONS .............................................................................. 31  
A.  Purpose ............................................................................................................................................... 31  
B.  Traffic Volumes ................................................................................................................................... 31  
C.  Level of Service Analysis .................................................................................................................... 31  
D.  Queuing Analysis ................................................................................................................................ 31  
113334
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 ix 
  
E.  Mitigation Measures ............................................................................................................................ 31  
F.  Mitigated Scenario .............................................................................................................................. 34  
VII.  FUTURE (2040) PLUS PROJECT CONDITIONS .............................................................................. 36  
A.  Purpose ............................................................................................................................................... 36  
B.  Traffic Volumes ................................................................................................................................... 36  
C.  Level of Service Analysis .................................................................................................................... 36  
D.  Queuing Analysis ................................................................................................................................ 36  
E.  Mitigation Measures ............................................................................................................................ 40  
F.  Mitigated Scenario .............................................................................................................................. 40  
G.  Recommended Storage Lengths ........................................................................................................ 42  
 
Appendix A: Turning Movement Counts 
Appendix B: LOS Results 
Appendix C: Queuing Results 
Appendix D: Project Trip Generation Tables 
 
LIST OF TABLES 
Table 1: Level of Service Description .................................................................................................... 3 
Table 2: Existing (2023) Background Peak Hour LOS .......................................................................... 5 
Table 3: Future (2025) Background Peak Hour LOS .......................................................................... 12  
Table 4: Project Land Uses.................................................................................................................. 13  
Table 5: Land Use Intensity by Phase ................................................................................................. 13  
Table 6: Area’s Land Uses Added to Each Phase .............................................................................. 14  
Table 7: Internal Capture Percentages for Each Phase and Area ...................................................... 14  
Table 8: Trip Distribution ...................................................................................................................... 15  
Table 9: Future (2025) Plus Project Peak Hour LOS .......................................................................... 30  
Table 10: Future (2030) Plus Project Peak Hour LOS ........................................................................ 34  
Table 11: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project Peak Hour LOS ........................................................ 35  
Table 12: Future (2040) Plus Project Peak Hour LOS ........................................................................ 39  
Table 13: Mitigated Future (2040) Plus Project Peak Hour LOS ........................................................ 41  
Table 14: Recommended Storage Lengths ......................................................................................... 42  
 
 
LIST OF FIGURES 
Figure 1: Vicinity map showing the project location in Hoytsville, Utah ................................................ 1 
Figure 2: Existing (2023) background peak hour traffic volumes .......................................................... 6 
Figure 3: Future (2025) background peak hour traffic volumes .......................................................... 10  
Figure 4: Trip assignment for the peak hours ...................................................................................... 16  
Figure 5: Future (2025) plus project peak hour traffic volumes ........................................................... 28  
Figure 6: Future (2030) plus project peak hour traffic volumes ........................................................... 32  
Figure 7: Future (2040) plus project peak hour traffic volumes ........................................................... 37  
114335
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 1
  
I.  INTRODUCTION 
A. Purpose 
This study addresses the traffic impacts associated  with the proposed LHM Master Plan 
development located in Hoytsville, Utah. The development is located on the east and west sides 
of Hoytsville Road between Judd Lane and Hobson Lan e. Figure 1 shows a vicinity map of the 
proposed development. 
The purpose of this traffic impact study is to anal yze traffic operations at key intersections for 
existing (2023) and future (2025) conditions without the proposed project, and future (2025, 2030, 
and 2040) conditions with the proposed project and to recommend mitigation measures as 
needed. 
 
Figure 1: Vicinity map showing the project location in Hoytsville, Utah 
115336
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 2
  
B. Scope 
The study area was defined based on conversations with the development team. This study was 
scoped to evaluate the traffic operational performa nce impacts of the project on the following 
intersections: 
• SB I-80 Ramps / Icy Springs Road 
• NB I-80 Ramps / 100 South 
• 100 South / Main Street 
• Hobson Lane / Hoytsville Road 
• Spring Canyon Road / Hoytsville Road  
• Creamery Lane / Hoytsville Road 
• Judd Lane / Hoytsville Road 
• SE Wanship Road / Lincoln Highway 
• SB I-80 Off-ramp / Old Lincoln Hwy 
• Old Lincoln Highway / W. Hoytsville Rd  
• Old Lincoln Highway / S.R. 32  
• WB I-80 On-ramp / S.R. 32 
• EB I-80 Ramps / S.R. 32 
• Project Accesses (10) 
C. Analysis Methodology 
Level of service (LOS) is a term that describes the  operating performance of an intersection or 
roadway. LOS is measured quantitatively and reported on a scale from A to F, with A representing 
the best performance and F the worst. Table 1 provi des a brief description of each LOS letter 
designation and an accompanying average delay per vehicle for both signalized and unsignalized 
intersections. 
The Highway Capacity Manual  (HCM), 6
th  Edition, 2016 methodology was used in this study t o 
remain consistent with “state-of-the-practice” prof essional standards. This methodology has 
different quantitative evaluations for signalized a nd unsignalized intersections. For signalized, 
roundabout, and all-way stop-controlled (AWSC) intersections, the LOS is provided for the overall 
intersection (weighted average of all approach dela ys). For all other unsignalized intersections, 
LOS is reported based on the worst movement. 
Using Synchro/SimTraffic software, which follow the HCM methodology, the peak hour LOS was 
computed for each study intersection. Multiple runs of SimTraffic were used to provide a statistical 
evaluation of the interaction between the intersections. The detailed LOS reports are provided in 
Appendix B. Hales Engineering also calculated the 9 5 
th  percentile queue lengths for the study 
intersections using SimTraffic. The detailed queue length reports are provided in Appendix C. 
D. Level of Service Standards 
For the purposes of this study, a minimum acceptabl e intersection performance for each of the 
study intersections was set at LOS D for UDOT roads  and LOS C for City and County roads. If 
levels of service D (on City or County roads), E, o r F conditions exist, an explanation and/or 
mitigation measures will be presented.  
  
116337
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 3
  
Table 1: Level of Service Description 
LOS Description of 
Traffic Conditions 
Average Delay 
(seconds/vehicle) 
Signalized 
Intersections 
Unsignalized 
Intersections 
A 
 
Free Flow / 
Insignificant Delay ≤ 10 ≤ 10 
B 
 
Stable Operations / 
Minimum Delays > 10 to 20 > 10 to 15 
C 
 
Stable Operations / 
Acceptable Delays > 20 to 35 > 15 to 25 
D 
 
Approaching 
Unstable Flows / 
Tolerable Delays 
> 35 to 55 > 25 to 35 
E 
 
Unstable Operations 
/ Significant Delays  > 55 to 80 > 35 to 50 
F 
 
Forced Flows / 
Unpredictable Flows 
/ Excessive Delays  
> 80 > 50 
Source: Hales Engineering Descriptions, based on th e Highway Capacity Manual  (HCM), 7th  Edition, 2023 
Methodology (Transportation Research Board) 
  
117338
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 4
  
II.  EXISTING (2023) BACKGROUND CONDITIONS 
A. Purpose 
The purpose of the background analysis is to study the intersections and roadways during the 
peak travel periods of the day with background traf fic and geometric conditions. Through this 
analysis, background traffic operational deficienci es can be identified, and potential mitigation 
measures recommended. This analysis provides a base line condition that may be compared to 
the build conditions to identify the impacts of the development. 
B. Roadway System 
The primary roadways that will provide access to the project site are described below: 
Hoytsville Road – is a county-maintained roadway wh ich is classified by the Eastern Summit 
County Transportation Master Plan (2011) as an arterial street. The roadway has one travel lane 
in each direction. The posted speed limit is between 30 and 40 mph in the study area. 
C. Traffic Volumes 
Weekday morning (7:00 to 9:00 a.m.) and evening (4: 00 to 6:00 p.m.) peak period traffic counts 
were performed on Wednesday, January 4, 2023, and Monday, August 28, 2023, at the following 
intersections: 
• SB I-80 Ramps / Icy Springs Road (Aug) 
• NB I-80 Ramps / 100 South (Aug) 
• 100 South / Main Street (Jan) 
• Hobson Lane / Hoytsville Road (Jan) 
• Spring Canyon Road / Hoytsville Road (Aug) 
• Creamery Lane / Hoytsville Road (Jan) 
• Judd Lane / Hoytsville Road (Aug) 
• SE Wanship Road / Lincoln Highway (Jan) 
• SB I-80 Off-ramp / Old Lincoln Hwy (Aug) 
• Old Lincoln Hwy / W. Hoytsville Rd (Jan) 
• Old Lincoln Highway / S.R. 32 (Aug) 
• WB I-80 On-ramp / S.R. 32 (Aug) 
• EB I-80 Ramps / S.R. 32 (Aug) 
The morning peak hour was determined to be between 7:00 and 8:00 a.m., and the evening peak 
hour was determined to be between 4:00 and 5:00 p.m . The evening peak hour volumes were 
approximately 13% higher than the morning peak hour  volumes. Both the morning and evening 
peak hour volumes were used in the analysis. Detailed count data are included in Appendix A. 
Hales Engineering made seasonal adjustments to the observed traffic volumes. Monthly traffic 
volume data were obtained from a nearby UDOT automa tic traffic recorder (ATR) on I-80 (ATR 
#309). In recent years, traffic volumes on I-80 in January have been equal to approximately 75% 
of average traffic volumes and traffic volumes in August have been equal to approximately 130% 
of average traffic volumes. Since I-80 volumes likely experience greater seasonal variability than 
the studies roadways do, the counts were not adjust ed based on the ATR data. However, the 
traffic volumes which were collected in January were increased where necessary to balance with 
the traffic volumes collected in August.  
118339
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 5
  
Figure 2 shows the existing morning and evening pea k hour volumes as well as intersection 
geometry at the study intersections. 
D. Level of Service Analysis 
Hales Engineering determined that all study interse ctions are currently operating at acceptable 
levels of service during the morning and evening peak hours, as shown in Table 2. These results 
serve as a baseline condition for the impact analysis of the proposed development during existing 
(2023) conditions. 
Table 2: Existing (2023) Background Peak Hour LOS 
Intersection LOS (Sec. Delay / Veh.) / Movement 1 
Description Control Morning Peak  Evening Peak  
SB I-80 Ramps / Icy Spring Road & 100 South SB Stop  a (8.1) / SBL a (5.3) / SBL 
NB I-80 On & Off Ramps / 100 South NB Stop a (6.0) / NBL a (4.8) / NBL 
100 South / Main Street EB Stop b (10.6) / EBL a (9 .3) / EBL 
Hobson Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (4.6) / EBL  a (4.8) / EBL 
Spring Canyon Road / Hoytsville Road WB Stop a (4.6 ) / WBL a (4.0) / WBL 
Creamery Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (3.7) / E BL a (4.0) / EBL 
Judd Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (4.3) / EBL a  (3.7) / EBL 
SE Wanship Road / Old Lincoln Highway NB Stop a (3. 7) / NBL a (2.3) / NBL 
Old Lincoln Highway / SB I-80 Off Ramp SB Stop a (2 .9) / SWR a (4.8) / SWL 
Old Lincoln Highway / West Hoytsville Road EB/WB St op a (5.9) / WBT a (5.0) / WBL 
Old Lincoln Highway / S.R. 32 EB Stop a (8.1) / EBT  a (9.3) / EBT 
WB I-80 On Ramp / S.R. 32 - a (3.4) / NBL a (2.8) /  NBL 
EB I-80 On & Off Ramps / S.R. 32 EB Stop a (5.5) / EBL a (7.7) / EBT 
1. Movement indicated for unsignalized intersections where delay and LOS represents worst movement. SBL = Southbound left movement, etc. 
2. Uppercase LOS used for signalized, roundabout, and AWSC intersections. Lowercase LOS used for all other unsignalized intersections. 
Source: Hales Engineering, April 2024  
E. Queuing Analysis 
Hales Engineering calculated the 95 th  percentile queue lengths for each of the study intersections. 
No significant queueing was observed during the morning and evening peak hours. 
119340
DATE
PROJECT
Existing (2023) Background
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
Figure 2A
UT23-2414
09/19/2023
Judd Ln/Hoytsville Rd
1
2
4
5
7
10
8
11
13
NB I-80 Ramps/100 South
38
218
16
150
14
0
80
Hobson Ln/Hoytsville Rd
3
100 South/Main Street
190
40
202
62
54
133
6
Creamery Ln/Hoytsville Rd
9
Old Lincoln Hwy/SB I-80
Ramp
23
9
90
1
12
SB I-80 Ramps/100 South
34
198
36
24
12
1
130
Spring Canyon Rd/
Hoytsville Rd
19
9
55
21
71
6
SE Wanship Rd/Old Lincoln
Hwy
Old Lincoln Hwy/S.R. 32
WB I-80 Ramp/S.R. 32
13
225
6
26
30
49
EB I-80 Ramps/S.R. 32
97
134
81
79
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
53
0
45
108
26
107
45
Old Lincoln Hwy/West
Hoytsville Rd
11
12
13
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
32
4
5
5
45
5
63
31
3
14
73
1
116
15
1
9
65
0
29
9
1
7
0
16
1
4
2
107
2
0
51
2
75
2
16
27
7
Morning
Peak Hour
120341
DATE
PROJECT
Existing (2023) Background
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
Figure 2B
UT23-2414
09/19/2023
Judd Ln/Hoytsville Rd
1
2
4
5
7
10
8
11
13
NB I-80 Ramps/100 South
92
117
13
82
9
0
214
Hobson Ln/Hoytsville Rd
3
100 South/Main Street
221
75
153
100
56
104
6
Creamery Ln/Hoytsville Rd
9
Old Lincoln Hwy/SB I-80
Ramp
23
16
69
5
12
SB I-80 Ramps/100 South
30
96
39
22
19
0
56
Spring Canyon Rd/
Hoytsville Rd
13
3
62
11
87
9
SE Wanship Rd/Old Lincoln
Hwy
Old Lincoln Hwy/S.R. 32
WB I-80 Ramp/S.R. 32
13
145
5
35
12
88
EB I-80 Ramps/S.R. 32
70
94
58
120
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
83
1
94
76
18
95
45
Old Lincoln Hwy/West
Hoytsville Rd
11
12
13
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
32
4
5
11
74
5
72
15
5
30
95
10
95
5
2
14
35
5
69
15
6
1
0
22
0
12
0
80
0
0
30
2
30
1
35
51
15
Evening
Peak Hour
121342
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 8
  
F. Mitigation Measures 
No mitigation measures are recommended. 
122343
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 9
  
III.  FUTURE (2025) BACKGROUND CONDITIONS 
A. Purpose 
The purpose of the future (2025) background analysis is to study the intersections and roadways 
during the peak travel periods of the day for futur e background traffic and geometric conditions. 
Through this analysis, future background traffic op erational deficiencies can be identified, and 
potential mitigation measures recommended. 
B. Roadway Network 
According to the Summit County Long Range Transportation Plan, there are no projects planned 
before 2025 in the study area. Therefore, no changes were made to the roadway network for the 
future (2025) analysis. 
C. Traffic Volumes 
Hales Engineering estimated future (2025) volumes u sing the Summit County Travel Demand 
Model, which projects an annual growth rate of appr oximately 1.5% in the area. Future (2025) 
morning and evening peak hour turning movement volumes are shown in Figure 3. 
D. Level of Service Analysis 
Hales Engineering determined that all study intersections are anticipated to operate at acceptable 
levels of service during the morning and evening pe ak hours in future (2025) background 
conditions, as shown in Table 3. These results serv e as a baseline condition for the impact 
analysis of the proposed development for future (2025) conditions. 
E. Queuing Analysis 
Hales Engineering calculated the 95 th  percentile queue lengths for each of the study intersections. 
No significant queueing is anticipated during the morning and evening peak hours.  
F. Mitigation Measures 
No mitigation measures are recommended. 
  
123344
DATE
PROJECT
Future (2025) Background
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
Figure 3A
UT23-2414
09/19/2023
Judd Ln/Hoytsville Rd
1
2
4
5
7
10
8
11
13
NB I-80 Ramps/100 South
40
230
20
160
15
0
85
Hobson Ln/Hoytsville Rd
3
100 South/Main Street
200
45
210
65
60
140
6
Creamery Ln/Hoytsville Rd
9
Old Lincoln Hwy/SB I-80
Ramp
30
20
95
5
12
SB I-80 Ramps/100 South
35
210
40
25
15
5
140
Spring Canyon Rd/
Hoytsville Rd
20
10
60
25
75
10
SE Wanship Rd/Old Lincoln
Hwy
Old Lincoln Hwy/S.R. 32
WB I-80 Ramp/S.R. 32
15
235
10
30
35
50
EB I-80 Ramps/S.R. 32
100
145
85
85
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
55
0
50
115
30
115
50
Old Lincoln Hwy/West
Hoytsville Rd
11
12
13
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
32
5
10
10
50
10
35
35
5
15
80
5
120
20
5
10
70
5
30
20
5
10
5
20
5
5
5
115
5
5
55
5
80
5
20
30
10
Morning
Peak Hour
124345
DATE
PROJECT
Future (2025) Background
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
Figure 3B
UT23-2414
09/19/2023
Judd Ln/Hoytsville Rd
1
2
4
5
7
10
8
11
13
NB I-80 Ramps/100 South
95
125
15
85
10
5
225
Hobson Ln/Hoytsville Rd
3
100 South/Main Street
230
80
160
105
60
110
6
Creamery Ln/Hoytsville Rd
9
Old Lincoln Hwy/SB I-80
Ramp
30
30
75
10
12
SB I-80 Ramps/100 South
35
100
40
25
20
5
60
Spring Canyon Rd/
Hoytsville Rd
15
5
65
15
90
10
SE Wanship Rd/Old Lincoln
Hwy
Old Lincoln Hwy/S.R. 32
WB I-80 Ramp/S.R. 32
10
150
10
40
15
95
EB I-80 Ramps/S.R. 32
75
100
60
130
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
90
5
100
80
20
100
50
Old Lincoln Hwy/West
Hoytsville Rd
11
12
13
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
32
5
10
15
80
10
75
20
10
35
100
15
100
10
5
15
40
10
75
30
10
5
5
25
5
15
5
85
5
5
35
5
35
5
40
55
20
Evening
Peak Hour
125346
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 12 
  
Table 3: Future (2025) Background Peak Hour LOS 
Intersection LOS (Sec. Delay / Veh.) / Movement 1 
Description Control Morning Peak  Evening Peak  
SB I-80 Ramps / Icy Spring Road & 100 South SB Stop  b (10.2) / SBT a (5.8) / SBT 
NB I-80 On & Off Ramps / 100 South NB Stop a (7.0) / NBL a (7.0) / NBT 
100 South / Main Street EB Stop b (10.9) / EBL a (1 0.0) / EBL 
Hobson Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (4.6) / EBL  a (4.7) / EBL 
Spring Canyon Road / Hoytsville Road WB Stop a (5.0 ) / WBL a (4.5) / WBL 
Creamery Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (3.5) / E BL a (4.5) / EBL 
Judd Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (4.3) / EBL a  (3.9) / EBL 
SE Wanship Road / Old Lincoln Highway NB Stop a (4. 0) / NBL a (3.6) / NBL 
Old Lincoln Highway / SB I-80 Off Ramp SB Stop a (4 .1) / SWL a (4.3) / SWL 
Old Lincoln Highway / West Hoytsville Road EB/WB St op a (5.5) / WBL a (6.1) / EBT 
Old Lincoln Highway / S.R. 32 EB Stop a (9.2) / EBT  a (7.2) / EBT 
WB I-80 On Ramp / S.R. 32 - a (3.3) / NBL a (2.9) /  NBL 
EB I-80 On & Off Ramps / S.R. 32 EB Stop a (5.7) / EBL a (6.6) / EBT 
1. Movement indicated for unsignalized intersections where delay and LOS represents worst movement. SBL = Southbound left movement, etc. 
2. Uppercase LOS used for signalized, roundabout, and AWSC intersections. Lowercase LOS used for all other unsignalized intersections. 
Source: Hales Engineering, April 2024  
  
126347
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 13 
  
IV.  PROJECT CONDITIONS 
A. Purpose 
The project conditions discussion explains the type  and intensity of development. This provides 
the basis for trip generation, distribution, and assignment of project trips to the surrounding study 
intersections defined in Chapter I. 
B. Project Description 
The proposed LHM Master Plan development is located on the east and west sides of Hoytsville 
Road between Judd Lane and Hobson Lane. The development will consist of various residential 
and commercial uses. The proposed land use for the development has been identified in Table 
4. 
Table 4: Project Land Uses 
Land Use Intensity 
Multifamily housing 462 Units 
Townhomes 655 Units 
Single-family detached housing 883 Units 
Commercial / Retail 156,000 sq. ft. 
C. Trip Generation 
Trip generation for the development was calculated using trip generation rates published in the 
Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE), Trip Generation , 11th  Edition, 2021. For the purposes 
of this study, it was assumed that the project woul d be constructed with an absorption rate of 
approximately 150 residential units per year. Phasing details provided by the developer were used 
to determine where development would occur between each horizon year. A summary of the total 
residential unit count and retail square footage for each phase is shown in Table 5. 
Table 5: Land Use Intensity by Phase 
Land Use Phase 1 (2025) Phase 2 (2030) Full Build (2040) 
Residential 150 Units 900 Units 2000 Units 
Retail 13,400 sq. ft. 69,000 sq. ft. 156,000 sq. ft. 
Trip generation for the development was split into the following geographical areas based on the 
phasing details that were provided:  
• North (North of Spring Canyon Road and east of Hoy tsville Road)  
• East (South of Spring Canyon Road and east of Hoyt sville Road)  
127348
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 14 
  
• West (West of Hoytsville Road)  
A summary of the additional residential units and r etail space from each area added for each 
horizon year is shown in Table 6. 
Table 6: Phased Land Use by Area 
Land Use Phase 1 (2025) Phase 2 (2030) Phase 3 (2040) 
Land Use North  East West  North  East West  North  East West  
Residential (Dwelling Uints) - - 150 - 250 500 345 391 364 
Retail (1,000 sq. ft.) - - 13.4 - 17.5 37.6 14 16.5 57 
Due to the mixed-use nature of the development, the  NCHRP 684 Internal Trip Capture 
Estimation Tool was used to estimate internal captu re trips between land uses. The following 
internal capture percentages, shown in Table 7, wer e applied as trip reductions to the trip 
generation for the following phases. 
Table 7: Internal Capture Percentages for Each Phase and Area 
 Phase 1 (2025) Phase 1 +Phase 2 (2030)  Full Build (2040) 
Time Period North East West  North  East West North  East West  
Daily  - - 6% - 6% 6% 5% 5% 4% 
Morning Peak Hour   3%  2% 2% 2% 2% 2% 
Evening Peak Hour - - 10% - 10% 10% 9% 9% 7% 
Detailed trip generation for the proposed project f or future (2025, 2030, and 2040) analyses are 
included in Appendix D, as well as a listing of the anticipated uses in each horizon year. 
The total trip generation for the development is as follows: 
• Daily Trips:      23,431 
• Morning Peak Hour Trips:     1,434 
• Evening Peak Hour Trips:     1,963 
D. Trip Distribution and Assignment 
Project traffic is assigned to the roadway network based on the type of trip and the proximity of 
project access points to major streets, high popula tion densities, and regional trip attractions. 
Existing travel patterns observed during data colle ction also provide helpful guidance to 
establishing these distribution percentages, especi ally near the site. Trip distribution varies by 
phase as development is focused in different areas in each phase. The resulting distribution of 
project generated trips during the morning and even ing peak hour is shown in Table 8. Detailed 
trip distribution percentages are shown in Figure 4. 
128349
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 15 
  
Table 8: Trip Distribution 
Direction 
% To/From Project 
2025 2030 2040 
North 47% 45% 45% 
South 45% 42% 42% 
West 7% 7% 7% 
East 1% 1% 1% 
Between Areas  - 5% 5% 
These trip distribution assumptions were used to assign the morning and evening peak hour trip 
generation at the study intersections to create trip assignment for the proposed development. Trip 
assignment for the development is shown in Figure 4. 
E. Access 
The proposed access for the site will be gained at the following locations: 
Hoytsville Road: 
• Access 1 will be located approximately 1,300 feet north of the Creamery Lane / 
Hoytsville Road intersection. It will access the pr oject on the west side of Hoytsville 
Road. It is anticipated that the access will be stop-controlled. 
• Access 2 will be located approximately 500 feet no rth of the Creamery Lane / 
Hoytsville Road intersection. It will access the pr oject on the east and west side of 
Hoytsville Road. It is anticipated that the access will be stop-controlled. 
• Access 3 will be located approximately 1,300 feet south of the Creamery Lane / 
Hoytsville Road intersection. It will access the pr oject on the west side of Hoytsville 
Road. It is anticipated that the access will be stop-controlled. 
• Access 6 will be located approximately 600 feet so uth of the Spring Canyon Road / 
Hoytsville Road intersection. It will access the pr oject on the east and west side of 
Hoytsville Road. It is anticipated that the access will be stop-controlled. 
• Access 7 will be located approximately 800 feet so uth of the Creamery Lane / 
Hoytsville Road intersection. It will access the pr oject on the east side of Hoytsville 
Road. It is anticipated that the access will be stop-controlled. 
• Access 10 will be located approximately 4,300 feet  north of the Spring Canyon Road 
/ Hoytsville Road intersection. It will access the project on the east and west side of 
Hoytsville Road. It is anticipated that the access will be stop-controlled.  
129350
DATE
PROJECT
Trip Distribution (2025)
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
UT23-2414
11/03/2023
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
10%
37%
5%
35%
2%
5%
0%
5%
Between Areas
0%
1%
Figure 4A
130351
DATE
PROJECT
Trip Assignment (2025)
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
Figure 4B
UT23-2414
09/19/2023
Judd Ln/Hoytsville Rd
1
2
4
5
7
10
8
11
13
14
15
NB I-80 Ramps/100 South
5
4
0
2
0
0
3
Hobson Ln/Hoytsville Rd
3
100 South/Main Street
0
5
0
16
9
26
6
Creamery Ln/Hoytsville Rd
9
Old Lincoln Hwy/SB I-80
Ramp
3
2
0
0
12
SB I-80 Ramps/100 South
0
4
0
0
0
0
2
Spring Canyon Rd/
Hoytsville Rd
0
0
21
0
35
0
SE Wanship Rd/Old Lincoln
Hwy
Old Lincoln Hwy/S.R. 32
WB I-80 Ramp/S.R. 32
2
30
0
0
0
18
EB I-80 Ramps/S.R. 32
26
4
0
18
1
2
3
4
7
8
9
10
15
0
0
4
0
3
0
Old Lincoln Hwy/West
Hoytsville Rd
11
12
13
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
32
3
0
4
32
0
18
0
0
0
21
0
35
0
0
0
32
0
18
2
0
0
0
3
0
0
0
3
0
0
0
0
29
0
0
16
2
18
18
11
10
10
17
17
18
10
18
11
10
Access 1/Hoytsville Rd
Access 2/Hoytsville Rd
Morning
Peak Hour
6
5
15
14
131352
DATE
PROJECT
Trip Assignment (2025)
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
Figure 4C
UT23-2414
09/19/2023
Judd Ln/Hoytsville Rd
1
2
4
5
7
10
8
11
13
14
15
NB I-80 Ramps/100 South
11
4
0
12
0
0
5
Hobson Ln/Hoytsville Rd
3
100 South/Main Street
0
17
0
38
15
30
6
Creamery Ln/Hoytsville Rd
9
Old Lincoln Hwy/SB I-80
Ramp
3
4
0
0
12
SB I-80 Ramps/100 South
0
4
0
0
0
0
12
Spring Canyon Rd/
Hoytsville Rd
0
0
55
0
45
0
SE Wanship Rd/Old Lincoln
Hwy
Old Lincoln Hwy/S.R. 32
WB I-80 Ramp/S.R. 32
1
33
3
0
0
41
EB I-80 Ramps/S.R. 32
29
4
0
41
1
2
3
4
6
7
8
9
10
36
0
0
4
0
5
0
Old Lincoln Hwy/West
Hoytsville Rd
11
12
13
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
32
5
0
4
34
0
44
0
0
0
55
0
45
0
0
0
34
0
44
4
0
0
0
3
0
0
0
3
0
0
0
0
31
0
0
40
4
23
18
28
27
24
22
22
20
27
18
25
24
Access 1/Hoytsville Rd
Access 2/Hoytsville Rd
Evening
Peak Hour
5
15
14
132353
DATE
PROJECT
Trip Distribution (2030)
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
UT23-2414
11/03/2023
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
10%
35%
5%
32%
2%
5%
0%
5
Between Areas
5%
5%
1%
Figure 4D
133354
DATE
PROJECT
Trip Assignment (2030)
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
Figure 4E
UT23-2414
09/19/2023
Judd Ln/Hoytsville Rd
1
2
4
5
7
10
8
11
13
14
15
NB I-80 Ramps/100 South
44
22
0
25
0
0
12
Hobson Ln/Hoytsville Rd
3
100 South/Main Street
0
37
0
84
66
155
6
Creamery Ln/Hoytsville Rd
9
Old Lincoln Hwy/SB I-80
Ramp
15
8
0
0
12
16
17
18
SB I-80 Ramps/100 South
0
22
0
0
0
0
25
Spring Canyon Rd/
Hoytsville Rd
0
2
121
0
221
5
SE Wanship Rd/Old Lincoln
Hwy
Old Lincoln Hwy/S.R. 32
WB I-80 Ramp/S.R. 32
8
162
3
0
0
88
EB I-80 Ramps/S.R. 32
140
22
0
88
1
2
3
4
6
7
8
9
10
76
0
0
22
0
12
0
Old Lincoln Hwy/West
Hoytsville Rd
11
12
13
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
32
34
23
20
143
5
107
0
0
0
121
0
221
0
0
0
170
0
91
8
0
0
0
15
0
0
0
15
0
0
0
0
155
0
0
83
8
43
30
24
127
20
150
54
37
31
126
25
116
Access 1/Hoytsville Rd
Access 2/Hoytsville Rd
Morning
Peak Hour
30
21
17
149
9
82
Access 3/Hoytsville Rd
Access 4/Creamery Ln
3
29
1
2
0
10
7
0
18
7
13
5
Access 5/Creamery Ln
6
4
2
3
0
13
10
0
16
8
9
5
19
Access 6/Creamery Ln
18
3
13
7
148
38
9
78
36
60
3
61
16
15
14
19
5
17
18
134355
DATE
PROJECT
Trip Assignment (2030)
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
Figure 4F
UT23-2414
09/19/2023
Judd Ln/Hoytsville Rd
1
2
4
5
7
10
8
11
13
14
15
NB I-80 Ramps/100 South
37
21
0
48
0
0
28
Hobson Ln/Hoytsville Rd
3
100 South/Main Street
0
76
0
190
58
138
6
Creamery Ln/Hoytsville Rd
9
Old Lincoln Hwy/SB I-80
Ramp
14
19
0
0
12
16
17
18
SB I-80 Ramps/100 South
0
21
0
0
0
0
48
Spring Canyon Rd/
Hoytsville Rd
0
6
266
0
196
3
SE Wanship Rd/Old Lincoln
Hwy
Old Lincoln Hwy/S.R. 32
WB I-80 Ramp/S.R. 32
9
149
10
0
0
200
EB I-80 Ramps/S.R. 32
128
21
0
200
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
172
0
0
21
0
28
0
Old Lincoln Hwy/West
Hoytsville Rd
11
12
13
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
32
34
22
44
156
28
188
0
0
0
266
0
196
0
0
0
158
0
210
19
0
0
0
14
0
0
0
14
0
0
0
0
144
0
0
191
19
38
26
54
206
39
184
49
33
65
167
48
174
Access 1/Hoytsville Rd
Access 2/Hoytsville Rd
Evening
Peak Hour
30
18
38
140
24
186
Access 3/Hoytsville Rd
Access 4/Creamery Ln
8
27
2
2
0
10
7
0
19
27
37
8
Access 5/Creamery Ln
14
10
4
4
0
8
7
0
19
26
9
11
19
Access 6/Creamery Ln
14
6
11
15
129
78
20
176
76
56
6
73
16
18
17
15
14
19
135356
DATE
PROJECT
Trip Distribution (2040)
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
UT23-2414
11/03/2023
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
10%
35%
10%
27%
2%
5%
2%
Between Areas
5%
1%
3%
Figure 4G
136357
DATE
PROJECT
Trip Assignment (2040)
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
Figure 4H
UT23-2414
09/19/2023
Judd Ln/Hoytsville Rd
1
2
4
5
7
10
8
11
13
14
15
NB I-80 Ramps/100 South
89
93
25
267
0
0
51
Hobson Ln/Hoytsville Rd
3
100 South/Main Street
0
99
0
179
182
324
6
Creamery Ln/Hoytsville Rd
9
Old Lincoln Hwy/SB I-80
Ramp
28
15
0
0
12
16
17
18
SB I-80 Ramps/100 South
0
93
0
0
0
0
48
Spring Canyon Rd/
Hoytsville Rd
5
3
286
0
449
6
SE Wanship Rd/Old Lincoln
Hwy
Old Lincoln Hwy/S.R. 32
WB I-80 Ramp/S.R. 32
19
297
11
0
0
163
EB I-80 Ramps/S.R. 32
250
47
0
163
1
2
3
4
6
7
8
9
10
138
0
0
47
0
25
0
Old Lincoln Hwy/West
Hoytsville Rd
11
12
13
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
32
40
25
29
292
7
229
0
11
0
278
19
506
0
0
0
316
0
174
15
0
0
0
28
0
0
0
28
0
0
0
0
288
0
0
159
15
43
30
44
283
20
292
Access 1/Hoytsville Rd
Access 2/Hoytsville Rd
Morning
Peak Hour
40
29
26
287
17
157
Access 3/Hoytsville Rd
Access 4/Creamery Ln
3
32
1
3
0
15
8
0
18
10
21
5
Access 5/Creamery Ln
6
7
3
4
0
13
8
0
16
11
16
5
19
Access 6/Creamery Ln
102
5
50
33
247
55
81
151
57
106
13
126
54
0
37
25
232
12
35
265
13
26
0
19
20
55
23
290
27
181
Access 7/Hoytsville Rd
16
23
84
29
257
32
441
Access 10/Hoytsville Rd
13
21
Access 8/Spring Canyon
Rd
2
0
4
1
3
0
22
Access 9/Spring Canyon
Rd
0
0
2
1
0
0
22
21
23
20
16
17
18
15
14
19
5
137358
DATE
PROJECT
Trip Assignment (2040)
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
Figure 4I
UT23-2414
09/19/2023
Judd Ln/Hoytsville Rd
1
2
4
5
7
10
8
11
13
14
15
NB I-80 Ramps/100 South
80
86
0
106
0
0
114
Hobson Ln/Hoytsville Rd
3
100 South/Main Street
0
220
0
396
166
291
6
Creamery Ln/Hoytsville Rd
9
Old Lincoln Hwy/SB I-80
Ramp
24
35
0
0
12
16
17
18
SB I-80 Ramps/100 South
0
86
0
0
0
0
106
Spring Canyon Rd/
Hoytsville Rd
21
12
564
12
398
35
SE Wanship Rd/Old Lincoln
Hwy
Old Lincoln Hwy/S.R. 32
WB I-80 Ramp/S.R. 32
17
267
24
0
0
362
EB I-80 Ramps/S.R. 32
225
42
0
362
1
2
3
7
8
9
10
305
0
0
42
0
57
0
Old Lincoln Hwy/West
Hoytsville Rd
11
12
13
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
32
40
29
55
325
30
364
0
24
0
616
17
440
0
0
0
284
0
386
35
0
0
0
24
0
0
0
24
0
0
0
0
260
0
0
351
35
45
30
65
424
45
373
Access 1/Hoytsville Rd
Access 2/Hoytsville Rd
Evening
Peak Hour
35
25
48
259
30
356
Access 3/Hoytsville Rd
Access 4/Creamery Ln
9
34
4
5
0
12
10
0
23
30
45
10
Access 5/Creamery Ln
16
15
5
5
0
12
10
0
20
33
9
18
19
Access 6/Hoytsville Road
60
10
43
45
308
65
105
371
100
65
10
75
55
15
35
50
328
26
75
334
45
35
15
11
20
38
28
279
75
356
Access 7/Hoytsville Rd
35
23
58
27
549
91
399
Access 10/Hoytsville Rd
20
21
Access 8/Spring Canyon
Rd
14
28
15
0
19
0
22
Access 9/Spring Canyon
Rd
2
19
9
0
0
0
4
6
22
21
23
20
5
19
14
15
18
17
16
138359
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 25 
  
Creamery Lane: 
• Access 4 will be located approximately 1,100 feet west of the Creamery Lane / 
Hoytsville Road intersection. It will access the pr oject on the north and south side of 
Creamery Lane. It is anticipated that the access will be stop-controlled. 
• Access 5 will be located approximately 1,900 feet west of the Creamery Lane / 
Hoytsville Road intersection. It will access the pr oject on the north and south side of 
Creamery Lane. It is anticipated that the access will be stop-controlled. 
Spring Canyon Road: 
• Access 8 will be located approximately 900 feet ea st of the Spring Canyon Road / 
Hoytsville Road intersection. It will access the pr oject on the north side of Spring 
Canyon Road. It is anticipated that the access will be stop-controlled. 
• Access 9 will be located approximately 3,300 feet east of the Spring Canyon Road / 
Hoytsville Road intersection. It will access the pr oject on the north side of Spring 
Canyon Road. It is anticipated that the access will be stop-controlled. 
F. Auxiliary Lanes 
Auxiliary lanes are deceleration (ingress) or acceleration (egress) turn lanes that provide for safe 
turning movements that have less impact on through traffic. These lanes are sometimes needed 
at accesses or roadway intersections if right- or left-turn volumes are high enough.  
Deceleration (ingress) lanes are generally needed w hen there are at least 50 right-turn vehicles 
or 25 left-turn vehicles in an hour. These guidelin es were used for the County roadways in the 
study area. 
Due to low through traffic volumes on Hoytsville Ro ad, it is anticipated that auxiliary lanes will 
have little benefit and are therefore not recommend ed until the future (2040) analysis where the 
following deceleration lanes are recommended: 
• Access 1 / Hoytsville Road: Northbound left-turn a nd southbound right-turn 
• Access 2 / Hoytsville Road: Northbound left-turn a nd southbound right-turn 
• Access 3 / Hoytsville Road: Northbound left-turn 
• Access 6 / Hoytsville Road: Northbound and southbo und left- and right-turn 
• Access 7 / Hoytsville Road: Southbound left-turn 
• Access 10 / Hoytsville Road: Southbound left-turn 
• Spring Canyon Road: Southbound left-turn 
• Creamery Lane / Hoytsville Road: Northbound left-t urn and southbound right-turn 
It is worth noting that the left-turn lanes on acce sses spaced closely to one another could be 
accommodated with a center two-way left-turn lane (TWLTL). 
139360
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 26 
  
G. Functional Classification 
New roadways throughout the development are classif ied as connectors and local roads. A 
functional classification map with these roadways i s provided in Appendix E. As shown, several 
connector streets are planned to run parallel to Hoytsville Road. It is anticipated that these roads 
will serve as alternative routes and could help reduce traffic on Hoytsville Road.  
H. Active Transportation 
There are several proposed trails throughout the development. Two of these trails are anticipated 
to intersect Hoysville Road. The southern trail wil l intersect Hoytsille Road at the approximately 
the Access 2 / Hoytsville Road intersection. It is recommended that a crosswalk be installed at 
this location to provide a safe crossing on Hoytsville Road. To maximize safety for pedestrians, it 
is recommended that the project and County consider  additional safety treatments such as 
rectangular rapid flashing beacons (RRFBs) at the crossing. 
The northern trail will intersect Hoytsville Road b etween Spring Canyon Road and Access 6. 
Since this crossing is not at an intersection, additional safety measures might be needed. These 
could include a midblock crosswalk with curb extens ions, RRFBs, and / or a pedestrian refuge 
island. Alternatively, the northern trail could be diverted to the Access 6 / Hoytsville Road 
intersection. 
  
140361
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 27 
  
V.  FUTURE (2025) PLUS PROJECT CONDITIONS 
A. Purpose 
The purpose of the future (2025) plus project analysis is to study the intersections and roadways 
during the peak travel periods of the day for existing background traffic and geometric conditions 
plus the net trips generated by the proposed development. This scenario provides valuable insight 
into the potential impacts of the proposed project on background traffic conditions. 
B. Traffic Volumes 
Hales Engineering added the project trips discussed in Chapter III to the future (2025) background 
traffic volumes to predict turning movement volumes  for future (2025) plus project conditions. 
Future (2025) plus project morning and evening peak hour turning movement volumes are shown 
in Figure 5. 
C. Level of Service Analysis 
Hales Engineering determined that all intersections are anticipated to operate at acceptable levels 
of service during the morning and evening peak hour s with project traffic added, as shown in 
Table 9. 
D. Queuing Analysis 
Hales Engineering calculated the 95 th  percentile queue lengths for each of the study intersections. 
No significant queueing is anticipated during the morning and evening peak hours.  
E. Mitigation Measures 
No mitigation measures are recommended. 
  
141362
DATE
PROJECT
Future (2025) Plus Project
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
Figure 5A
UT23-2414
09/19/2023
Judd Ln/Hoytsville Rd
1
2
4
5
7
10
8
11
13
14
15
NB I-80 Ramps/100 South
45
234
20
162
15
0
88
Hobson Ln/Hoytsville Rd
3
100 South/Main Street
200
50
210
81
69
166
6
Creamery Ln/Hoytsville Rd
9
Old Lincoln Hwy/SB I-80
Ramp
33
22
95
5
12
SB I-80 Ramps/100 South
35
214
40
25
15
5
142
Spring Canyon Rd/
Hoytsville Rd
20
10
81
25
110
10
SE Wanship Rd/Old Lincoln
Hwy
Old Lincoln Hwy/S.R. 32
WB I-80 Ramp/S.R. 32
17
265
10
30
35
68
EB I-80 Ramps/S.R. 32
126
149
85
103
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
70
0
50
119
30
118
50
Old Lincoln Hwy/West
Hoytsville Rd
11
12
13
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
32
8
10
14
82
10
53
35
5
15
101
5
155
20
5
10
102
5
48
22
5
10
5
23
5
5
5
118
5
5
55
5
109
5
20
46
12
14
15
18
18
11
70
10
57
17
18
10
78
11
50
Access 1/Hoytsville Rd
Access 2/Hoytsville Rd
Morning
Peak Hour
142363
DATE
PROJECT
Future (2025) Plus Project
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
Figure 5B
UT23-2414
09/19/2023
Judd Ln/Hoytsville Rd
1
2
4
5
7
10
8
11
13
14
15
NB I-80 Ramps/100 South
106
129
15
97
10
5
230
Hobson Ln/Hoytsville Rd
3
100 South/Main Street
230
97
160
143
75
140
6
Creamery Ln/Hoytsville Rd
9
Old Lincoln Hwy/SB I-80
Ramp
33
34
75
10
12
SB I-80 Ramps/100 South
35
104
40
25
20
5
72
Spring Canyon Rd/
Hoytsville Rd
15
5
120
15
135
10
SE Wanship Rd/Old Lincoln
Hwy
Old Lincoln Hwy/S.R. 32
WB I-80 Ramp/S.R. 32
11
183
13
40
15
136
EB I-80 Ramps/S.R. 32
104
104
60
171
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
126
5
100
84
20
105
50
Old Lincoln Hwy/West
Hoytsville Rd
11
12
13
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
32
10
10
19
114
10
119
20
10
35
155
15
145
10
5
15
74
10
119
34
10
5
5
28
5
15
5
88
5
5
35
5
66
5
40
95
24
14
15
23
18
28
122
24
102
22
20
27
113
25
104
Access 1/Hoytsville Rd
Access 2/Hoytsville Rd
Evening
Peak Hour
143364
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 30 
  
Table 9: Future (2025) Plus Project Peak Hour LOS 
Intersection LOS (Sec. Delay / Veh.) / Movement 1 
Description Control Morning Peak  Evening Peak  
SB I-80 Ramps / Icy Spring Road & 100 South SB Stop  a (9.1) / SBL a (5.7) / SBL 
NB I-80 On & Off Ramps / 100 South NB Stop a (6.2) / NBL a (6.0) / NBT 
100 South / Main Street EB Stop b (14.1) / EBL b (1 2.2) / EBL 
Hobson Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (5.0) / EBL  a (5.2) / EBL 
Spring Canyon Road / Hoytsville Road WB Stop a (5.3 ) / WBL a (6.0) / WBL 
Creamery Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (4.5) / E BL a (5.0) / EBL 
Judd Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (4.4) / EBL a  (5.0) / EBL 
SE Wanship Road / Old Lincoln Highway NB Stop a (3. 8) / NBL a (4.0) / NBL 
Old Lincoln Highway / SB I-80 Off Ramp SB Stop a (3 .9) / SWL a (4.1) / SWL 
Old Lincoln Highway / West Hoytsville Road EB/WB St op a (6.4) / EBT a (7.7) / EBT 
Old Lincoln Highway / S.R. 32 EB Stop b (11.4) / EB T a (9.4) / EBT 
WB I-80 On Ramp / S.R. 32 - a (3.5) / NBL a (3.2) /  NBL 
EB I-80 On & Off Ramps / S.R. 32 EB Stop a (6.0) / EBL a (7.1) / EBT 
Access 1 / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (4.4) / EBL a (5.4) / EBL 
Access 2 / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (4.8) / EBL a (5.2) / EBL 
1. Movement indicated for unsignalized intersections where delay and LOS represents worst movement. SBL = Southbound left movement, etc. 
2. Uppercase LOS used for signalized, roundabout, and AWSC intersections. Lowercase LOS used for all other unsignalized intersections. 
Source: Hales Engineering, April 2024  
  
144365
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 31 
  
VI.  FUTURE (2030) PLUS PROJECT CONDITIONS 
A. Purpose 
The purpose of the future (2030) plus project analysis is to study the intersections and roadways 
during the peak travel periods of the day for futur e background traffic and geometric conditions 
plus the net trips generated by the proposed development. This scenario provides valuable insight 
into the potential impacts of the proposed project on future background traffic conditions. 
B. Traffic Volumes 
Hales Engineering estimated future (2030) backgroun d volumes using the same 1.5% annual 
growth rate assumed previously. Hales Engineering t hen added the project trips discussed in 
Chapter III to the future (2030) background traffic volumes to predict turning movement volumes 
for future (2030) plus project conditions. Future ( 2030) plus project morning and evening peak 
hour turning movement volumes are shown in Figure 6. 
C. Level of Service Analysis 
Hales Engineering determined that the 100 South / M ain Street and NB I-80 On & Off-Ramps 
intersections are anticipated to operate at a poor LOS during the morning or evening peak hours 
in future (2030) plus project conditions, as shown in Table 10. 
D. Queuing Analysis 
Hales Engineering calculated the 95 th  percentile queue lengths for each of the study intersections. 
Some significant queueing is anticipated during the morning and evening peak hours. Significant 
95 th  percentile queue lengths during the morning and ev ening peak hour are summarized as 
follows: 
 
• 100 South / Main St: 
o Eastbound: 925’ (AM), >1,000’ (PM) 
 
 
E. Mitigation Measures 
It is anticipated that a signal will be warranted a t the 100 South / Main Street intersection, and it 
is recommended that one be installed. With the inst allation of a signal, it may be necessary to 
install a northbound left-turn lane and a southboun d right-turn lane. Additionally, the parking on 
the east side of Main Street will likely need to be removed through the intersection. 
  
145366
DATE
PROJECT
Future (2030) Plus Project
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
Figure 6A
UT23-2414
09/20/2023
Judd Ln/Hoytsville Rd
1
2
4
5
7
10
8
11
13
14
15
NB I-80 Ramps/100 South
161
334
20
219
20
5
126
Hobson Ln/Hoytsville Rd
3
100 South/Main Street
215
130
225
160
270
323
6
Creamery Ln/Hoytsville Rd
9
Old Lincoln Hwy/SB I-80
Ramp
45
28
100
5
12
16
17
18
SB I-80 Ramps/100 South
40
314
40
30
15
5
199
Spring Canyon Rd/
Hoytsville Rd
25
12
186
25
301
15
SE Wanship Rd/Old Lincoln
Hwy
Old Lincoln Hwy/S.R. 32
WB I-80 Ramp/S.R. 32
23
412
13
30
35
143
EB I-80 Ramps/S.R. 32
250
172
90
178
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
136
5
50
142
30
132
50
Old Lincoln Hwy/West
Hoytsville Rd
11
12
13
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
32
39
33
30
193
15
177
35
5
20
260
5
513
20
5
10
245
5
126
28
5
10
5
35
5
5
5
135
5
5
60
5
240
5
20
113
18
14
15
43
30
24
187
20
225
54
37
31
186
25
191
Access 1/Hoytsville Rd
Access 2/Hoytsville Rd
16
Morning
Peak Hour
30
21
17
209
9
162
Access 3/Hoytsville Rd
Access 4/Creamery Ln
3
44
1
2
0
10
7
0
18
7
33
5
Access 5/Creamery Ln
6
19
2
3
0
13
10
0
16
8
29
5
19
Access 6/Creamery Ln
18
3
13
7
223
38
9
138
36
60
3
61
19
17
18
146367
DATE
PROJECT
Future (2030) Plus Project
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
Figure 6B
UT23-2414
09/20/2023
Judd Ln/Hoytsville Rd
1
2
4
5
7
10
8
11
13
14
15
NB I-80 Ramps/100 South
190
199
15
224
10
5
349
Hobson Ln/Hoytsville Rd
3
100 South/Main Street
250
323
170
325
219
269
6
Creamery Ln/Hoytsville Rd
9
Old Lincoln Hwy/SB I-80
Ramp
44
49
80
10
12
16
17
18
SB I-80 Ramps/100 South
35
174
45
25
25
5
194
Spring Canyon Rd/
Hoytsville Rd
15
11
336
15
296
13
SE Wanship Rd/Old Lincoln
Hwy
Old Lincoln Hwy/S.R. 32
WB I-80 Ramp/S.R. 32
19
314
20
40
15
300
EB I-80 Ramps/S.R. 32
208
126
65
340
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
267
5
105
106
20
138
50
Old Lincoln Hwy/West
Hoytsville Rd
11
12
13
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
32
39
32
59
241
38
268
20
10
35
558
15
417
10
5
20
198
10
290
49
10
5
5
39
5
15
5
104
5
5
35
5
179
5
40
251
39
14
15
38
26
54
306
39
269
49
33
65
267
48
259
Access 1/Hoytsville Rd
Access 2/Hoytsville Rd
16
Evening
Peak Hour
30
18
38
235
24
276
Access 3/Hoytsville Rd
Access 4/Creamery Ln
8
42
2
2
0
10
7
0
19
27
62
8
Access 5/Creamery Ln
14
25
4
4
0
8
7
0
19
26
34
11
19
Access 6/Creamery Ln
14
6
11
15
214
78
20
276
76
56
6
73
19
17
18
147368
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 34 
  
Table 10: Future (2030) Plus Project Peak Hour LOS 
Intersection LOS (Sec. Delay / Veh.) / Movement 1 
Description Control Morning Peak  Evening Peak  
SB I-80 Ramps / Icy Spring Road & 100 South SB Stop  b (13.2) / SBL a (8.0) / SBT 
NB I-80 On & Off Ramps / 100 South NB Stop b (14.5)  / EBL f (>50) / NBT 
100 South / Main Street EB Stop f (>50) / EBL f (>5 0) / EBL 
Hobson Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (9.9) / EBL  b (13.7) / EBL 
Spring Canyon Road / Hoytsville Road WB Stop a (7.1 ) / WBL a (8.6) / WBL 
Creamery Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (6.3) / E BL a (8.3) / EBL 
Judd Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (5.6) / EBL a  (6.0) / EBL 
SE Wanship Road / Old Lincoln Highway NB Stop a (4. 1) / NBL a (4.3) / NBL 
Old Lincoln Highway / SB I-80 Off Ramp SB Stop a (5 .1) / SWL a (4.6) / SWL 
Old Lincoln Highway / West Hoytsville Road EB/WB St op a (8.3) / WBL a (9.3) / WBL 
Old Lincoln Highway / S.R. 32 EB Stop c (16.9) / EB T c (18.6) / EBT 
WB I-80 On Ramp / S.R. 32 - a (5.7) / NBL a (4.3) /  NBL 
EB I-80 On & Off Ramps / S.R. 32 EB Stop a (9.2) / EBT b (10.6) / EBT 
Access 1 / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (6.6) / EBL a (9.2) / EBL 
Access 2 / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (7.4) / EBL a (9.3) / EBL 
Access 3 / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (6.3) / EBL a (7.3) / EBL 
Access 4 /Creamery Lane NB/SB Stop a (5.0) / NBL a (4.3) / SBL 
Access 5 / Creamery Lane NB/SB Stop a (4.7) / NBL a  (4.5) / NBL 
Access 6 / Hoytsville Road EB/WB Stop b (11.9) / WB T c (16.3) / WBT 
1. Movement indicated for unsignalized intersections where delay and LOS represents worst movement. SBL = Southbound left movement, etc. 
2. Uppercase LOS used for signalized, roundabout, and AWSC intersections. Lowercase LOS used for all other unsignalized intersections. 
Source: Hales Engineering, April 2024  
F. Mitigated Scenario 
Hales Engineering ran a mitigated scenario assuming the recommended mitigation measures had 
been implemented. With the proposed improvement, it  is anticipated that all study intersections 
will operate at acceptable levels of service, as shown in Table 11.  
Additionally, a roundabout was also considered at this intersection instead of a signal at the 100 
South / Main Street intersection. As a result, it is anticipated that the intersection would continue 
148369
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 35 
  
to operate at a poor level of service as a roundabout. Significant northbound queues of over 1,000 
ft would also be anticipated. Therefore, a roundabout is not recommended at this intersection. 
Table 11: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project Peak Hour LOS 
Intersection LOS (Sec. Delay / Veh.) / Movement 1 
Description Control Morning Peak  Evening Peak  
SB I-80 Ramps / Icy Spring Road & 100 South SB Stop  b (14.0) / SBT a (8.2) / SBL 
NB I-80 On & Off Ramps / 100 South NB Stop a (9.8) / NBT b (11.0) / NBT 
100 South / Main Street Signal A (9.7) B (10.3) 
Hobson Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (9.1) / EBL  b (13.1) / EBL 
Spring Canyon Road / Hoytsville Road WB Stop a (7.0 ) / WBL a (9.0) / WBL 
Creamery Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (6.3) / E BL a (8.3) / EBL 
Judd Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (5.7) / EBL a  (7.6) / EBL 
SE Wanship Road / Old Lincoln Highway NB Stop a (4. 0) / NBL a (4.4) / NBL 
Old Lincoln Highway / SB I-80 Off Ramp SB Stop a (5 .2) / SWL a (4.4) / SWL 
Old Lincoln Highway / West Hoytsville Road EB/WB St op a (8.6) / WBT a (9.7) / WBL 
Old Lincoln Highway / S.R. 32 EB Stop c (16.3) / EB T c (15.5) / EBT 
WB I-80 On Ramp / S.R. 32 - a (5.7) / NBL a (4.6) /  NBL 
EB I-80 On & Off Ramps / S.R. 32 EB Stop a (8.0) / EBT b (13.1) / EBT 
Access 1 / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (6.9) / EBL a (9.3) / EBL 
Access 2 / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (7.7) / EBL b (11.2) / EBL 
Access 3 / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (6.2) / EBL a (7.1) / EBL 
Access 4 /Creamery Lane NB/SB Stop a (4.3) / SBL a (4.3) / SBL 
Access 5 / Creamery Lane NB/SB Stop a (4.5) / SBL a  (4.3) / SBL 
Access 6 / Hoytsville Road EB/WB Stop a (8.1) / WBL  b (14.3) / EBT 
1. Movement indicated for unsignalized intersections where delay and LOS represents worst movement. SBL = Southbound left movement, etc. 
2. Uppercase LOS used for signalized, roundabout, and AWSC intersections. Lowercase LOS used for all other unsignalized intersections. 
Source: Hales Engineering, April 2024  
  
149370
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 36 
  
VII.  FUTURE (2040) PLUS PROJECT CONDITIONS 
A. Purpose 
The purpose of the future (2040) plus project analysis is to study the intersections and roadways 
during the peak travel periods of the day for futur e background traffic and geometric conditions 
plus the net trips generated by the proposed development. This scenario provides valuable insight 
into the potential impacts of the proposed project on future background traffic conditions. 
B. Traffic Volumes 
Hales Engineering estimated future (2040) backgroun d volumes using the same 1.5% annual 
growth rate assumed previously. Hales Engineering t hen added the project trips discussed in 
Chapter III to the future (2040) background traffic volumes to predict turning movement volumes 
for future (2040) plus project conditions. Future ( 2040) plus project morning and evening peak 
hour turning movement volumes are shown in Figure 7. 
C. Level of Service Analysis 
Hales Engineering determined that multiple intersections are anticipated to operate at poor levels 
of service during the morning and evening peak hours in future (2040) plus project conditions, as 
shown in Table 12. 
D. Queuing Analysis 
Hales Engineering calculated the 95 th  percentile queue lengths for each of the study intersections. 
Some significant queueing is anticipated during the morning and evening peak hours. Significant 
95 th  percentile queue lengths during the morning and ev ening peak hour are summarized as 
follows: 
 
• SB I-80 Ramps / 100 South: 
o Southbound: 250’ (AM), 200’ (PM) 
 
• Hobson Ln / Hoytsville Rd: 
o Northbound: 275’ (PM) 
 
• 100 South / Main St: 
o Northbound: 600’ (AM), 625’ (PM) 
o Eastbound: 900’ (PM) 
 
• EB I-80 Ramps / S.R. 32: 
o Eastbound: 375’ (PM) 
 
  150371
DATE
PROJECT
Future (2040) Plus Project
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
Figure 7A
UT23-2414
09/19/2023
Judd Ln/Hoytsville Rd
1
2
4
5
7
10
8
11
13
14
15
NB I-80 Ramps/100 South
211
450
25
267
20
5
180
Hobson Ln/Hoytsville Rd
3
100 South/Main Street
245
202
265
265
396
517
6
Creamery Ln/Hoytsville Rd
9
Old Lincoln Hwy/SB I-80
Ramp
63
35
120
5
12
16
17
18
SB I-80 Ramps/100 South
45
425
50
35
20
5
242
Spring Canyon Rd/
Hoytsville Rd
30
18
361
30
544
16
SE Wanship Rd/Old Lincoln
Hwy
Old Lincoln Hwy/S.R. 32
WB I-80 Ramp/S.R. 32
39
587
21
35
40
228
EB I-80 Ramps/S.R. 32
375
222
105
268
1
2
3
4
7
8
9
10
208
5
60
187
35
165
60
Old Lincoln Hwy/West
Hoytsville Rd
11
12
13
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
32
50
35
39
352
17
314
40
5
20
427
5
818
20
5
15
401
5
214
35
5
10
5
53
5
10
5
168
5
5
70
5
388
5
25
194
25
43
30
44
353
20
387
Access 1/Hoytsville Rd
Access 2/Hoytsville Rd
Morning
Peak Hour
40
29
26
357
17
252
Access 3/Hoytsville Rd
Access 4/Creamery Ln
3
52
1
3
0
15
8
0
18
10
41
5
Access 5/Creamery Ln
3
52
1
3
0
15
8
0
16
11
36
5
19
Access 6/Creamery Ln
102
5
50
33
342
55
81
221
57
106
13
126
54
0
37
25
327
12
35
335
13
26
0
19
20
55
23
360
27
276
Access 7/Hoytsville Rd
16
23
84
29
400
32
739
Access 10/Hoytsville Rd
13
21
Access 8/Spring Canyon
Rd
63
0
4
1
40
0
22
Access 9/Spring Canyon
Rd
0
0
2
1
0
0
5
6
14
15
16
17
18
20
22
21
23
19
151372
DATE
PROJECT
Future (2040) Plus Project
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
Figure 7B
UT23-2414
09/19/2023
Judd Ln/Hoytsville Rd
1
2
4
5
7
10
8
11
13
14
15
NB I-80 Ramps/100 South
248
289
20
297
15
5
470
Hobson Ln/Hoytsville Rd
3
100 South/Main Street
285
482
200
546
337
437
6
Creamery Ln/Hoytsville Rd
9
Old Lincoln Hwy/SB I-80
Ramp
59
65
95
10
12
16
17
18
SB I-80 Ramps/100 South
40
264
55
30
25
5
262
Spring Canyon Rd/
Hoytsville Rd
41
17
644
27
513
50
SE Wanship Rd/Old Lincoln
Hwy
Old Lincoln Hwy/S.R. 32
WB I-80 Ramp/S.R. 32
27
457
34
45
20
477
EB I-80 Ramps/S.R. 32
320
167
75
522
1
2
3
4
8
9
10
415
5
125
142
25
182
60
Old Lincoln Hwy/West
Hoytsville Rd
11
12
13
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
32
50
39
70
425
40
459
20
34
40
923
32
672
10
5
20
329
10
476
65
10
5
5
54
5
20
5
129
5
5
40
5
300
5
45
421
55
45
30
65
539
45
478
Access 1/Hoytsville Rd
Access 2/Hoytsville Rd
Evening
Peak Hour
35
25
48
369
30
461
Access 3/Hoytsville Rd
Access 4/Creamery Ln
9
54
4
5
0
12
10
0
23
30
70
10
Access 5/Creamery Ln
16
35
5
5
0
12
10
0
20
33
34
18
19
Access 6/Hoytsville Road
60
10
43
45
413
65
105
486
100
65
10
75
55
15
35
50
433
26
75
449
45
35
15
11
20
38
28
389
75
461
Access 7/Hoytsville Rd
35
23
58
27
866
91
646
Access 10/Hoytsville Rd
20
21
Access 8/Spring Canyon
Rd
29
28
15
0
34
0
22
Access 9/Spring Canyon
Rd
2
19
9
0
0
0
5
6
14
15
16
17
18
20
22
21
23
19
7
152373
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 39 
  
Table 12: Future (2040) Plus Project Peak Hour LOS 
Intersection LOS (Sec. Delay / Veh.) / Movement 1 
Description Control Morning Peak  Evening Peak  
SB I-80 Ramps / Icy Spring Road & 100 South SB Stop  d (33.3) / SBT b (14.3) / SBT 
NB I-80 On & Off Ramps / 100 South NB Stop b (14.0)  / NBT b (11.7) / NBT 
100 South / Main Street Signal C (22.0) D (47.3) 
Hobson Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop c (18.3) / EB L f (>50) / EBL 
Spring Canyon Road / Hoytsville Road WB Stop b (14. 6) / WBL d (26.4) / WBL 
Creamery Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop b (11.4) / EBL b (14.0) / EBL 
Judd Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (7.4) / EBL a  (8.2) / EBL 
SE Wanship Road / Old Lincoln Highway NB Stop a (3. 8) / NBL a (5.1) / NBL 
Old Lincoln Highway / SB I-80 Off Ramp SB Stop a (4 .8) / SWL a (4.7) / SWL 
Old Lincoln Highway / West Hoytsville Road EB/WB St op b (14.7) / WBL c (19.3) / WBL 
Old Lincoln Highway / S.R. 32 EB Stop e (44.2) / EB T e (47.6) / EBT 
WB I-80 On Ramp / S.R. 32 - a (9.5) / NBL a (7.2) /  NBL 
EB I-80 On & Off Ramps / S.R. 32 EB Stop b (12.7) /  EBT c (24.6) / EBL 
Access 1 / Hoytsville Road EB Stop b (12.9) / EBL c  (20.5) / EBL 
Access 2 / Hoytsville Road EB Stop b (11.9) / WBL d  (34.2) / EBL 
Access 3 / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (8.1) / EBL a (9.8) / EBL 
Access 4 /Creamery Lane NB/SB Stop a (5.3) / NBL a (4.8) / SBL 
Access 5 / Creamery Lane NB/SB Stop a (4.5) / NBL a  (4.9) / NBL 
Access 6 / Hoytsville Road EB/WB Stop c (23.9) / WB T e (39.9) / WBT 
Access 7 / Hoytsville Road WB Stop a (8.3) / WBL b (13.2) / WBL 
Access 8 / Spring Canyon Road SB Stop a (2.0) / SBR  a (1.9) / SBR 
Access 9 / Spring Canyon Road SB Stop a (2.8) / SBR  a (2.8) / SBR 
Access 10 / Hoytsville Road WB Stop c (19.6) / WBL e (36.7) / WBL 
1. Movement indicated for unsignalized intersections where delay and LOS represents worst movement. SBL = Southbound left movement, etc. 
2. Uppercase LOS used for signalized, roundabout, and AWSC intersections. Lowercase LOS used for all other unsignalized intersections. 
Source: Hales Engineering, April 2024  
 
153374
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 40 
  
E. Mitigation Measures 
The following mitigation measures are recommended: 
• SB I-80 Ramps / 100 South: 
o Install traffic signal 
o Install westbound left-turn and eastbound and sout hbound right-turn lanes 
• 100 South / Main Street: 
o Implement northbound permissive/protected left-tur n phasing 
o Implement eastbound right-turn signal timing overl ap 
• Hobson Lane / Hoytsville Road: 
o Install eastbound and southbound right-turn lanes and northbound left-turn lane 
• Spring Canyon Road / Hoytsville Road: 
o Install northbound and westbound right-turn lanes 
• Old Lincoln Highway / S.R. 32: 
o Install all-way stop control (AWSC) 
• EB I-80 Ramps / S.R. 32: 
o Install separate eastbound right-turn pocket 
• Access 2 / Hoytsville Road: 
o Install eastbound and westbound right-turn pockets  
• Access 6 / Hoytsville Road: 
o Install traffic signal 
o Install eastbound and westbound left- and right-tu rn lanes 
• Access 10 / Hoytsville Road: 
o Install westbound right-turn pocket 
F. Mitigated Scenario 
With the proposed improvements, it is anticipated t hat all study intersections will perform at 
acceptable levels of service during the morning and evening peak hour with the exception of the 
Hobson Lane / Hoytsville Road, Access 2 / Hoytsvill e Road, and Access 10 / Hoytsville Road 
intersections, as shown in Table 13. Little can be done to mitigate these remaining intersections 
as they do not warrant signalization. Drivers will learn to adapt and reroute. 
  
154375
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 41 
  
Table 13: Mitigated Future (2040) Plus Project Peak Hour LOS 
Intersection LOS (Sec. Delay / Veh.) / Movement 1 
Description Control Morning Peak  Evening Peak  
SB I-80 Ramps / Icy Spring Road & 100 South Signal B (12.1) A (9.2) 
NB I-80 On & Off Ramps / 100 South NB Stop c (15.3)  / NBT b (14.1) / NBT 
100 South / Main Street Signal B (16.8) C (22.3) 
Hobson Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop c (23.6) / EB L e (40.3) / EBL 
Spring Canyon Road / Hoytsville Road WB Stop b (12. 8) / WBL c (22.4) / WBL 
Creamery Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop b (11.0) / EBL b (14.0) / EBL 
Judd Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (7.8) / EBL a  (9.3) / EBL 
SE Wanship Road / Old Lincoln Highway NB Stop a (4. 1) / NBL a (4.1) / NBL 
Old Lincoln Highway / SB I-80 Off Ramp SB Stop a (5 .2) / SWL a (4.9) / SWL 
Old Lincoln Highway / West Hoytsville Road EB/WB St op b (14.2) / EBT c (22.6) / WBL 
Old Lincoln Highway / S.R. 32 EB Stop B (10.3) A (7 .7) 
WB I-80 On Ramp / S.R. 32 - a (9.6) / NBL a (6.9) /  NBL 
EB I-80 On & Off Ramps / S.R. 32 EB Stop b (10.3) /  EBT c (16.1) / EBT 
Access 1 / Hoytsville Road EB Stop b (11.9) / EBL c  (23.2) / EBL 
Access 2 / Hoytsville Road EB Stop b (14.1) / EBL d  (28.1) / EBL 
Access 3 / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (8.6) / EBL b (10.4) / EBL 
Access 4 /Creamery Lane NB/SB Stop a (5.5) / NBL a (4.8) / SBL 
Access 5 / Creamery Lane NB/SB Stop a (4.0) / SBL a  (4.5) / SBL 
Access 6 / Hoytsville Road Signal A (7.5) A (7.1) 
Access 7 / Hoytsville Road WB Stop a (9.2) / WBL b (14.1) / WBL 
Access 8 / Spring Canyon Road SB Stop a (1.8) / SBR  a (2.2) / SBR 
Access 9 / Spring Canyon Road SB Stop a (3.1) / SBR  a (2.7) / SBR 
Access 10 / Hoytsville Road WB Stop c (17.8) / WBL e (42.8) / WBL 
1. Movement indicated for unsignalized intersections where delay and LOS represents worst movement. SBL = Southbound left movement, etc. 
2. Uppercase LOS used for signalized, roundabout, and AWSC intersections. Lowercase LOS used for all other unsignalized intersections. 
Source: Hales Engineering, April 2024  
 
155376
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 42 
  
G. Recommended Storage Lengths 
Hales Engineering determined recommended storage lengths based on the 95 th  percentile queue 
lengths given in the future (2040) plus project scenario. These storage lengths do not include the 
taper length. Recommended storage lengths for the s tudy intersections are shown in Table 14. 
Intersections shown in Table 14 include new interse ctions and existing intersections that have 
recommended storage length changes. 
Table 14: Recommended Storage Lengths 
 
 
 
156377
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
APPENDIX A 
Turning Movement Counts 
  
157378
2364 North 1450 East 
Lehi, UT 84043 
801.636.0891 
Intersection: SB I-80 On and Off Ramp / Icy Springs Road Date: 8-23-23, Wed 
North/South: SB I-80 On and Off Ramp Day of Week Adjustment: 100.0% 
East/West: Icy Springs Road Month of Year Adjustment: 100.0% 
Jurisdiction: Hoytsville Adjustment Station #: 309 
Project  Title: Master Plan TS Growth Rate: 0.0% 
Project No: UT23-2414 Number of Years: 0
Weather: Clear 
AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:00 AM-8:00 AM 
AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 7:15 AM-7:30 AM 75 
AM PHF: 0.69 
143 
-
-
75 0
PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 4:45 PM-5:45 PM 142 1
PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 4:45 PM-5:00 PM 
PM PHF: 0.88 19 0 56 
0 12 1 129 
0 0
1
Icy Springs Road 
0 0
49 49 34 30 232 126 
106 108 0 1 198 96 395 217 
57 59 35 34 163 91 
22 24 
Icy Springs Road 
0
0 0 3 0 0
0 Legend 
0 0 0
AM 
223 3 Midday 
PM 
118 0
226 
118 Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds 
AM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
7:00 - 7:15 3 0 0 0 28 0 0 1 1 9 4 0 48 7 0 0 100 
7:15 - 7:30 0 0 0 0 61 1 4 0 0 9 7 0 68 8 0 0 158 
7:30 - 7:45 0 0 0 0 22 0 8 0 0 9 12 0 49 11 0 0 111 
7:45 - 8:00 0 0 0 0 18 0 0 0 0 7 1 0 33 8 0 0 67 
8:00 - 8:15 1 0 0 0 13 0 2 0 0 3 5 0 37 7 0 0 68 
8:15 - 8:30 0 0 0 0 14 0 8 0 0 9 7 0 25 5 0 0 68 
8:30 - 8:45 0 0 0 0 7 0 3 0 0 8 6 0 26 10 0 0 60 
8:45 - 9:00 0 0 0 0 7 1 4 0 0 5 7 0 24 4 0 0 52 
MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
9:00 - 9:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:15 - 9:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:30 - 9:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:45 - 10:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:00 - 10:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:15 - 10:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:30 - 10:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:45 - 11:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:00 - 11:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:15 - 11:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:30 - 11:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:45 - 12:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:00 - 12:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:15 - 12:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:30 - 12:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:45 - 13:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:00 - 13:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:15 - 13:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:30 - 13:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:45 - 14:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:00 - 14:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:15 - 14:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:30 - 14:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:45 - 15:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:00 - 15:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:15 - 15:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:30 - 15:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:45 - 16:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
PM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
16:00 - 16:15 0 0 0 0 10 0 2 0 0 2 4 0 22 3 0 0 43 
16:15 - 16:30 0 1 0 0 10 0 8 0 0 9 10 0 25 5 0 0 68 
16:30 - 16:45 0 0 0 0 10 0 2 0 0 4 5 0 19 9 0 0 49 
16:45 - 17:00 0 0 0 0 14 0 8 0 0 7 7 0 28 9 0 0 73 
17:00 - 17:15 0 0 0 0 16 0 4 0 0 8 6 0 9 10 0 0 53 
17:15 - 17:30 0 0 0 0 11 0 3 0 0 12 4 0 30 8 0 0 68 
17:30 - 17:45 0 0 0 0 15 0 4 0 0 8 5 0 29 3 0 0 64 
17:45 - 18:00 0 0 0 0 14 1 0 0 0 10 7 0 26 11 0 0 69 
Intersection Turning Movement Summary 
Northbound 
SB I-80 On and Off Ramp 
Southbound 
SB I-80 On and Off Ramp 
Eastbound 
SB I-80 On and Off Ramp 
SB I-80 On and Off Ramp 
Total Entering Vehicles 
436 
258 
MIDDAY PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PHF: 
Icy Springs Road Icy Springs Road 
Westbound TOTAL 
Period 
Period 
RAW COUNT 
SUMMARIES 
Period 
158379
2364 North 1450 East 
Lehi, UT 84043 
801.636.0891 
Intersection: NB I-80 On and Off Ramps / Icy Springs Road Date: 8-23-23, Wed 
North/South: NB I-80 On and Off Ramps Day of Week Adjustment: 100.0% 
East/West: Icy Springs Road Month of Year Adjustment: 100.0% 
Jurisdiction: Hoytsville Adjustment Station #: 309 
Project  Title: Master Plan TS Growth Rate: 0.0% 
Project No: UT23-2414 Number of Years: 0
Weather: Clear 
AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:00 AM-8:00 AM 
AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 7:15 AM-7:30 AM 105 
AM PHF: 0.68 
52 
-
-
0 105 
PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 5:00 PM-6:00 PM 0 52 
PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 5:15 PM-5:30 PM 
PM PHF: 0.86 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0
0
Icy Springs Road 
38 92 
119 230 216 110 255 202 
214 386 13 14 1 0 475 498 
95 156 82 142 220 296 
0 0
Icy Springs Road 
0
0 0 14 0 78 
0 Legend 
9 0 214 
AM 
1 92 Midday 
PM 
0 223 
93 
223 
Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds 
AM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
7:00 - 7:15 2 0 13 0 0 0 0 0 1 27 0 0 1 52 7 0 103 
7:15 - 7:30 5 0 29 0 0 0 0 0 4 69 0 0 0 71 8 0 186 
7:30 - 7:45 4 0 24 0 0 0 0 0 6 27 0 0 0 58 15 0 134 
7:45 - 8:00 3 0 12 0 0 0 0 0 3 19 0 0 0 35 8 0 80 
8:00 - 8:15 2 0 14 0 0 0 0 0 1 12 0 0 0 43 11 0 83 
8:15 - 8:30 1 0 12 0 0 0 0 0 3 19 0 0 0 28 4 0 67 
8:30 - 8:45 6 0 21 0 0 0 0 0 2 12 0 0 0 33 12 0 86 
8:45 - 9:00 1 0 20 0 0 0 0 0 1 8 0 0 0 27 13 0 70 
MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
9:00 - 9:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:15 - 9:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:30 - 9:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:45 - 10:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:00 - 10:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:15 - 10:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:30 - 10:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:45 - 11:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:00 - 11:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:15 - 11:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:30 - 11:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:45 - 12:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:00 - 12:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:15 - 12:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:30 - 12:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:45 - 13:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:00 - 13:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:15 - 13:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:30 - 13:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:45 - 14:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:00 - 14:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:15 - 14:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:30 - 14:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:45 - 15:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:00 - 15:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:15 - 15:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:30 - 15:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:45 - 16:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
PM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
16:00 - 16:15 2 0 34 0 0 0 0 0 1 16 0 0 0 30 25 0 108 
16:15 - 16:30 4 0 28 0 0 0 0 0 1 15 0 0 0 19 23 0 90 
16:30 - 16:45 0 0 39 0 0 0 0 0 3 15 0 0 0 34 43 0 134 
16:45 - 17:00 2 1 51 0 0 0 0 0 2 19 0 0 0 26 16 0 117 
17:00 - 17:15 1 0 29 0 0 0 0 0 3 24 0 0 0 18 31 0 106 
17:15 - 17:30 5 0 63 0 0 0 0 0 4 20 0 0 0 33 26 0 151 
17:30 - 17:45 1 0 60 0 0 0 0 0 2 20 0 0 0 27 14 0 124 
17:45 - 18:00 2 0 62 0 0 0 0 0 4 18 0 0 0 32 21 0 139 
Intersection Turning Movement Summary 
Northbound 
NB I-80 On and Off Ramps 
Southbound 
NB I-80 On and Off Ramps 
Eastbound 
NB I-80 On and Off Ramps 
NB I-80 On and Off Ramps 
Total Entering Vehicles 
503 
520 
MIDDAY PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PHF: 
Icy Springs Road Icy Springs Road 
Westbound TOTAL 
Period 
Period 
RAW COUNT 
SUMMARIES 
Period 
159380
2364 North 1450 East 
Lehi, UT 84043 
801.636.0891 
Intersection: Main Street / 100 South Date: 1-4-23, Wed 
North/South: Main Street Day of Week Adjustment: 100.0% 
East/West: 100 South Month of Year Adjustment: 100.0% 
Jurisdiction: Hoytsville Adjustment Station #: 309 
Project  Title: Master Plan TS Growth Rate: 0.0% 
Project No: UT23-2414 Number of Years: 0
Weather: Clear 
AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:00 AM-8:00 AM 
AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 7:30 AM-7:45 AM 591 
AM PHF: 0.71 
549 
-
-
296 295 
PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 4:30 PM-5:30 PM 226 323 
PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 5:15 PM-5:30 PM 
PM PHF: 0.97 163 133 0
3 164 62 0
0 0
0
100 South 
0 0
227 206 0 0 0 0
476 437 191 190 0 0 1 0
249 231 0 1 1 0
58 40 
100 South 
0
0 0 42 133 0
0 Legend 
64 104 0
AM 
102 175 Midday 
PM 
191 168 
277 
359 Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds 
AM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
7:00 - 7:15 10 18 0 0 0 7 41 0 24 1 8 0 0 0 0 0 109 
7:15 - 7:30 12 26 0 0 0 13 45 0 50 0 6 0 0 0 0 0 152 
7:30 - 7:45 12 66 0 0 0 16 47 0 75 0 5 0 0 0 0 0 221 
7:45 - 8:00 8 23 0 0 0 26 31 0 41 0 21 0 0 0 0 0 150 
8:00 - 8:15 9 23 0 0 0 10 29 0 20 0 5 0 0 0 0 0 96 
8:15 - 8:30 4 9 0 0 0 7 28 0 19 0 5 0 0 0 0 0 72 
8:30 - 8:45 5 7 0 0 0 4 24 0 29 0 10 0 0 0 0 0 79 
8:45 - 9:00 13 19 0 0 0 15 20 0 26 0 6 0 0 0 0 0 99 
MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
9:00 - 9:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:15 - 9:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:30 - 9:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:45 - 10:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:00 - 10:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:15 - 10:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:30 - 10:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:45 - 11:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:00 - 11:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:15 - 11:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:30 - 11:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:45 - 12:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:00 - 12:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:15 - 12:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:30 - 12:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:45 - 13:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:00 - 13:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:15 - 13:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:30 - 13:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:45 - 14:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:00 - 14:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:15 - 14:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:30 - 14:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:45 - 15:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:00 - 15:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:15 - 15:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:30 - 15:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:45 - 16:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
PM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
16:00 - 16:15 5 14 0 0 0 32 29 0 58 0 6 0 0 0 0 0 144 
16:15 - 16:30 9 21 0 0 0 29 32 0 38 0 6 0 0 0 0 0 135 
16:30 - 16:45 33 25 0 0 0 23 44 0 33 0 12 0 0 0 0 0 170 
16:45 - 17:00 12 22 0 0 0 38 37 0 56 0 17 0 0 0 0 0 182 
17:00 - 17:15 14 33 0 0 0 39 38 0 38 0 16 0 0 0 0 0 178 
17:15 - 17:30 5 24 0 0 0 33 44 3 64 0 13 0 0 0 0 0 183 
17:30 - 17:45 6 22 0 0 0 25 35 0 47 1 12 0 0 0 0 0 148 
17:45 - 18:00 7 15 0 0 0 19 26 0 42 1 10 0 0 0 0 0 120 
Intersection Turning Movement Summary 
Northbound 
Main Street 
Southbound 
Main Street 
Eastbound 
Main Street 
Main Street 
Total Entering Vehicles 
632 
713 
MIDDAY PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PHF: 
100 South 100 South 
Westbound TOTAL 
Period 
Period 
RAW COUNT 
SUMMARIES 
Period 
160381
2364 North 1450 East 
Lehi, UT 84043 
801.636.0891 
Intersection: Hoytsville Road / Hobson Lane Date: 1-4-23, Wed 
North/South: Hoytsville Road Day of Week Adjustment: 100.0% 
East/West: Hobson Lane Month of Year Adjustment: 100.0% 
Jurisdiction: Hoytsville Adjustment Station #: 309 
Project  Title: Master Plan TS Growth Rate: 0.0% 
Project No: UT23-2414 Number of Years: 0
Weather: Clear 
AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:15 AM-8:15 AM 
AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 7:30 AM-7:45 AM 219 
AM PHF: 0.82 
166 
-
-
123 96 
PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 4:15 PM-5:15 PM 44 122 
PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 4:45 PM-5:00 PM 
PM PHF: 0.84 20 103 0
0 7 37 0
0 0
0
Hobson Lane 
0 0
23 8 0 0 0 0
39 32 13 24 0 0 0 0
16 24 0 0 0 0
3 0
Hobson Lane 
0
0 0 1 98 0
0 Legend 
3 83 0
AM 
37 99 Midday 
PM 
106 86 
136 
192 Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds 
AM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
7:00 - 7:15 0 11 0 0 0 9 3 0 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 29 
7:15 - 7:30 0 22 0 0 0 4 2 0 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 34 
7:30 - 7:45 0 35 0 0 0 6 2 0 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 51 
7:45 - 8:00 1 25 0 0 0 21 1 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 51 
8:00 - 8:15 0 16 0 0 0 6 2 0 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 31 
8:15 - 8:30 0 6 0 0 0 3 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 10 
8:30 - 8:45 0 7 0 0 0 6 1 0 3 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 18 
8:45 - 9:00 0 17 0 0 0 8 2 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 30 
MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
9:00 - 9:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:15 - 9:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:30 - 9:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:45 - 10:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:00 - 10:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:15 - 10:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:30 - 10:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:45 - 11:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:00 - 11:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:15 - 11:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:30 - 11:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:45 - 12:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:00 - 12:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:15 - 12:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:30 - 12:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:45 - 13:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:00 - 13:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:15 - 13:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:30 - 13:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:45 - 14:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:00 - 14:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:15 - 14:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:30 - 14:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:45 - 15:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:00 - 15:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:15 - 15:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:30 - 15:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:45 - 16:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
PM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
16:00 - 16:15 0 14 0 0 0 18 7 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 41 
16:15 - 16:30 0 17 0 0 0 26 3 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 47 
16:30 - 16:45 2 22 0 0 0 21 3 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 52 
16:45 - 17:00 1 25 0 0 0 31 3 0 5 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 67 
17:00 - 17:15 0 19 0 0 0 25 11 0 3 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 59 
17:15 - 17:30 0 13 0 0 0 16 2 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 35 
17:30 - 17:45 0 16 0 0 0 15 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 34 
17:45 - 18:00 0 5 0 0 0 14 2 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 24 
Intersection Turning Movement Summary 
Northbound 
Hoytsville Road 
Southbound 
Hoytsville Road 
Eastbound 
Hoytsville Road 
Hoytsville Road 
Total Entering Vehicles 
167 
225 
MIDDAY PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PHF: 
Hobson Lane Hobson Lane 
Westbound TOTAL 
Period 
Period 
RAW COUNT 
SUMMARIES 
Period 
161382
2364 North 1450 East 
Lehi, UT 84043 
801.636.0891 
Intersection: Hoytsville Road / Spring Canyon Road Date: 8-23-23, Wed 
North/South: Hoytsville Road Day of Week Adjustment: 100.0% 
East/West: Spring Canyon Road Month of Year Adjustment: 100.0% 
Jurisdiction: Hoytsville Adjustment Station #: 309 
Project  Title: Master Plan TS Growth Rate: 0.0% 
Project No: UT23-2414 Number of Years: 0
Weather: Clear 
AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:00 AM-8:00 AM 
AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 7:30 AM-7:45 AM 173 
AM PHF: 0.81 
166 
-
-
73 100 
PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 4:15 PM-5:15 PM 76 90 
PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 4:30 PM-4:45 PM 
PM PHF: 0.75 0 62 11 
0 0 55 21 
0 0
0
Spring Canyon Road 
19 13 
0 0 0 0 28 16 
0 0 0 0 9 3 55 36 
0 0 0 0 27 20 
0 0
Spring Canyon Road 
0
0 0 0 71 6
0 Legend 
0 87 9
AM 
64 77 Midday 
PM 
65 96 
141 
161 Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds 
AM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
7:00 - 7:15 0 11 2 0 2 9 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 7 0 33 
7:15 - 7:30 0 23 0 0 6 17 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 6 0 54 
7:30 - 7:45 0 24 1 0 9 18 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 2 0 56 
7:45 - 8:00 0 13 3 0 4 11 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 0 4 0 38 
8:00 - 8:15 0 8 0 0 2 15 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 27 
8:15 - 8:30 0 13 1 0 0 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 0 2 0 27 
8:30 - 8:45 0 6 0 0 3 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 18 
8:45 - 9:00 0 4 2 0 0 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 2 0 17 
MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
9:00 - 9:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:15 - 9:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:30 - 9:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:45 - 10:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:00 - 10:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:15 - 10:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:30 - 10:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:45 - 11:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:00 - 11:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:15 - 11:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:30 - 11:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:45 - 12:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:00 - 12:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:15 - 12:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:30 - 12:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:45 - 13:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:00 - 13:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:15 - 13:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:30 - 13:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:45 - 14:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:00 - 14:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:15 - 14:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:30 - 14:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:45 - 15:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:00 - 15:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:15 - 15:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:30 - 15:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:45 - 16:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
PM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
16:00 - 16:15 0 20 1 0 2 19 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 2 0 45 
16:15 - 16:30 0 19 1 0 2 15 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 3 0 41 
16:30 - 16:45 0 36 0 0 2 19 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 4 0 62 
16:45 - 17:00 0 14 1 0 4 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 0 30 
17:00 - 17:15 0 18 7 0 3 20 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 3 0 52 
17:15 - 17:30 0 18 1 0 2 15 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 4 0 41 
17:30 - 17:45 0 15 3 0 5 12 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 0 40 
17:45 - 18:00 0 20 1 0 7 12 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 41 
Intersection Turning Movement Summary 
Northbound 
Hoytsville Road 
Southbound 
Hoytsville Road 
Eastbound 
Hoytsville Road 
Hoytsville Road 
Total Entering Vehicles 
181 
185 
MIDDAY PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PHF: 
Spring Canyon Road Spring Canyon Road 
Westbound TOTAL 
Period 
Period 
RAW COUNT 
SUMMARIES 
Period 
162383
2364 North 1450 East 
Lehi, UT 84043 
801.636.0891 
Intersection: Hoytsville Road / Creamery Lane Date: 1-4-23, Wed 
North/South: Hoytsville Road Day of Week Adjustment: 100.0% 
East/West: Creamery Lane Month of Year Adjustment: 100.0% 
Jurisdiction: Hoytsville Adjustment Station #: 309 
Project  Title: Master Plan TS Growth Rate: 0.0% 
Project No: UT23-2414 Number of Years: 0
Weather: Clear 
AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:15 AM-8:15 AM 
AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 7:30 AM-7:45 AM 151 
AM PHF: 0.78 
113 
-
-
85 66 
PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 4:30 PM-5:30 PM 46 67 
PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 4:45 PM-5:00 PM 
PM PHF: 0.86 11 74 0
0 1 45 0
0 0
0
Creamery Lane 
0 0
16 1 0 0 0 0
25 10 4 4 0 0 0 0
9 9 0 0 0 0
5 5
Creamery Lane 
0
0 0 0 63 0
0 Legend 
5 62 0
AM 
50 63 Midday 
PM 
79 67 
113 
146 Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds 
AM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
7:00 - 7:15 0 4 0 0 0 8 0 0 2 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 16 
7:15 - 7:30 0 15 0 0 0 8 0 0 1 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 26 
7:30 - 7:45 0 21 0 0 0 11 0 0 3 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 38 
7:45 - 8:00 0 15 0 0 0 18 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 34 
8:00 - 8:15 0 12 0 0 0 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 20 
8:15 - 8:30 0 5 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 10 
8:30 - 8:45 1 8 0 0 0 10 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 21 
8:45 - 9:00 0 11 0 0 0 10 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 22 
MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
9:00 - 9:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:15 - 9:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:30 - 9:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:45 - 10:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:00 - 10:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:15 - 10:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:30 - 10:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:45 - 11:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:00 - 11:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:15 - 11:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:30 - 11:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:45 - 12:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:00 - 12:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:15 - 12:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:30 - 12:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:45 - 13:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:00 - 13:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:15 - 13:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:30 - 13:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:45 - 14:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:00 - 14:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:15 - 14:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:30 - 14:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:45 - 15:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:00 - 15:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:15 - 15:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:30 - 15:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:45 - 16:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
PM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
16:00 - 16:15 0 14 0 0 0 11 1 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 28 
16:15 - 16:30 2 14 0 0 0 16 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 34 
16:30 - 16:45 0 10 0 0 0 19 4 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 35 
16:45 - 17:00 2 23 0 0 0 17 2 0 2 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 47 
17:00 - 17:15 1 11 0 0 0 18 4 0 1 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 37 
17:15 - 17:30 2 18 0 0 0 20 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 42 
17:30 - 17:45 0 16 0 0 0 15 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 32 
17:45 - 18:00 0 15 0 0 0 13 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 29 
Intersection Turning Movement Summary 
Northbound 
Hoytsville Road 
Southbound 
Hoytsville Road 
Eastbound 
Hoytsville Road 
Hoytsville Road 
Total Entering Vehicles 
118 
161 
MIDDAY PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PHF: 
Creamery Lane Creamery Lane 
Westbound TOTAL 
Period 
Period 
RAW COUNT 
SUMMARIES 
Period 
163384
2364 North 1450 East 
Lehi, UT 84043 
801.636.0891 
Intersection: Hoystville Road / Judd Lane Date: 8-23-23, Wed 
North/South: Hoystville Road Day of Week Adjustment: 100.0% 
East/West: Judd Lane Month of Year Adjustment: 100.0% 
Jurisdiction: Hoytsville Adjustment Station #: 309 
Project  Title: Master Plan TS Growth Rate: 0.0% 
Project No: UT23-2414 Number of Years: 0
Weather: Clear 
AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:00 AM-8:00 AM 
AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 7:15 AM-7:30 AM 123 
AM PHF: 0.68 
118 
-
-
49 74 
PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 4:00 PM-5:00 PM 74 44 
PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 5:15 PM-5:30 PM 
PM PHF: 0.81 14 35 0
0 9 65 0
0 0
0
Judd Lane 
0 0
19 9 0 0 0 0
26 25 5 15 0 0 0 0
7 16 0 0 0 0
2 1
Judd Lane 
0
0 4 0 29 0
0 Legend 
5 69 0
AM 
66 29 Midday 
PM 
37 74 
95 
111 
Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds 
AM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
7:00 - 7:15 0 7 0 0 0 16 1 0 2 0 0 4 0 0 0 0 26 
7:15 - 7:30 0 9 0 0 0 23 5 0 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 44 
7:30 - 7:45 0 7 0 0 0 19 2 0 3 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 32 
7:45 - 8:00 0 6 0 0 0 7 1 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 17 
8:00 - 8:15 2 6 0 0 0 15 2 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 26 
8:15 - 8:30 0 6 0 0 0 16 1 0 2 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 26 
8:30 - 8:45 1 4 0 0 0 6 2 0 2 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 16 
8:45 - 9:00 0 2 0 0 0 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 12 
MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
9:00 - 9:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:15 - 9:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:30 - 9:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:45 - 10:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:00 - 10:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:15 - 10:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:30 - 10:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:45 - 11:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:00 - 11:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:15 - 11:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:30 - 11:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:45 - 12:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:00 - 12:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:15 - 12:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:30 - 12:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:45 - 13:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:00 - 13:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:15 - 13:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:30 - 13:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:45 - 14:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:00 - 14:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:15 - 14:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:30 - 14:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:45 - 15:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:00 - 15:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:15 - 15:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:30 - 15:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:45 - 16:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
PM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
16:00 - 16:15 0 18 0 0 0 12 4 0 3 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 39 
16:15 - 16:30 3 20 0 0 0 11 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 34 
16:30 - 16:45 2 18 0 0 0 10 5 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 36 
16:45 - 17:00 0 13 0 0 0 2 5 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 21 
17:00 - 17:15 1 11 0 0 0 10 3 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 26 
17:15 - 17:30 1 21 0 0 0 7 7 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 40 
17:30 - 17:45 1 12 0 0 0 6 3 0 4 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 27 
17:45 - 18:00 0 22 0 0 0 7 3 0 3 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 36 
Intersection Turning Movement Summary 
Northbound 
Hoystville Road 
Southbound 
Hoystville Road 
Eastbound 
Hoystville Road 
Hoystville Road 
Total Entering Vehicles 
119 
130 
MIDDAY PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PHF: 
Judd Lane Judd Lane 
Westbound TOTAL 
Period 
Period 
RAW COUNT 
SUMMARIES 
Period 
164385
2364 North 1450 East 
Lehi, UT 84043 
801.636.0891 
Intersection: SE Wanship Road / Old Lincoln Highway Date: 1-4-23, Wed 
North/South: SE Wanship Road Day of Week Adjustment: 100.0% 
East/West: Old Lincoln Highway Month of Year Adjustment: 100.0% 
Jurisdiction: Hoytsville Adjustment Station #: 309 
Project  Title: Master Plan TS Growth Rate: 0.0% 
Project No: UT23-2414 Number of Years: 0
Weather: Clear 
AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:00 AM-8:00 AM 
AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 7:15 AM-7:30 AM 37 
AM PHF: 0.75 
25 
-
-
22 15 
PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 4:00 PM-5:00 PM 17 8
PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 4:00 PM-4:15 PM 
PM PHF: 0.69 22 0 0
1 16 0 1
0 0
0
Old Lincoln Highway 
0 0
23 24 1 0 1 0
44 35 15 8 0 0 4 0
21 11 0 2 3 0
6 1
Old Lincoln Highway 
0
0 0 7 0 0
0 Legend 
1 0 0
AM 
1 7 Midday 
PM 
6 1
8
7Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds 
AM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
7:00 - 7:15 4 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 2 0 0 0 1 0 0 9
7:15 - 7:30 2 0 0 0 0 0 6 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 12 
7:30 - 7:45 1 0 0 0 0 0 5 0 2 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 9
7:45 - 8:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 6
8:00 - 8:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 4
8:15 - 8:30 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3
8:30 - 8:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 4
8:45 - 9:00 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 2
MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
9:00 - 9:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:15 - 9:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:30 - 9:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:45 - 10:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:00 - 10:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:15 - 10:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:30 - 10:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:45 - 11:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:00 - 11:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:15 - 11:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:30 - 11:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:45 - 12:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:00 - 12:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:15 - 12:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:30 - 12:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:45 - 13:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:00 - 13:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:15 - 13:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:30 - 13:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:45 - 14:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:00 - 14:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:15 - 14:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:30 - 14:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:45 - 15:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:00 - 15:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:15 - 15:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:30 - 15:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:45 - 16:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
PM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
16:00 - 16:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 7 1 7 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 16 
16:15 - 16:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 7 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 8
16:30 - 16:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 3 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 10 
16:45 - 17:00 1 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 4 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 10 
17:00 - 17:15 0 0 0 0 0 1 3 0 4 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 9
17:15 - 17:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2
17:30 - 17:45 1 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 4 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 8
17:45 - 18:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 5
Intersection Turning Movement Summary 
Northbound 
SE Wanship Road 
Southbound 
SE Wanship Road 
Eastbound 
SE Wanship Road 
SE Wanship Road 
Total Entering Vehicles 
36 
44 
MIDDAY PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PHF: 
Old Lincoln Highway Old Lincoln Highway 
Westbound TOTAL 
Period 
Period 
RAW COUNT 
SUMMARIES 
Period 
165386
2364 North 1450 East 
Lehi, UT 84043 
801.636.0891 
Intersection: SB I-80 Off-Ramp / Old Lincoln Highway Date: 8-23-23, Wed 
North/South: SB I-80 Off-Ramp Day of Week Adjustment: 100.0% 
East/West: Old Lincoln Highway Month of Year Adjustment: 100.0% 
Jurisdiction: Hoytsville Adjustment Station #: 309 
Project  Title: Master Plan TS Growth Rate: 0.0% 
Project No: UT23-2414 Number of Years: 0
Weather: Clear 
AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:30 AM-8:30 AM 
AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 7:45 AM-8:00 AM 74 
AM PHF: 0.85 
91 
-
-
74 0
PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 4:30 PM-5:30 PM 91 0
PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 4:30 PM-4:45 PM 
PM PHF: 0.84 69 0 5
0 90 0 1
0 0
0
Old Lincoln Highway 
0 0
83 106 16 14 16 14 
99 115 0 0 0 0 26 35 
16 9 16 9 10 21 
0 0
Old Lincoln Highway 
0
0 0 0 0 0
0 Legend 
0 0 0
AM 
0 0 Midday 
PM 
0 0
0
0Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds 
AM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
7:00 - 7:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 22 0 0 1 0 0 0 7 0 0 30 
7:15 - 7:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 11 0 0 0 0 0 0 7 0 0 18 
7:30 - 7:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 26 0 0 2 0 0 0 3 0 0 31 
7:45 - 8:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 28 0 0 2 0 0 0 4 0 0 34 
8:00 - 8:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 19 0 0 1 0 0 0 5 0 0 25 
8:15 - 8:30 0 0 0 0 1 0 17 0 0 4 0 0 0 4 0 0 26 
8:30 - 8:45 0 0 0 0 0 2 14 0 0 2 0 0 0 4 0 0 22 
8:45 - 9:00 0 0 0 0 2 0 16 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 18 
MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
9:00 - 9:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:15 - 9:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:30 - 9:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:45 - 10:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:00 - 10:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:15 - 10:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:30 - 10:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:45 - 11:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:00 - 11:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:15 - 11:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:30 - 11:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:45 - 12:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:00 - 12:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:15 - 12:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:30 - 12:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:45 - 13:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:00 - 13:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:15 - 13:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:30 - 13:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:45 - 14:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:00 - 14:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:15 - 14:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:30 - 14:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:45 - 15:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:00 - 15:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:15 - 15:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:30 - 15:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:45 - 16:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
PM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
16:00 - 16:15 0 0 0 0 1 1 11 0 0 5 0 0 0 6 0 0 24 
16:15 - 16:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 8 0 0 4 0 0 0 4 0 0 16 
16:30 - 16:45 0 0 0 0 1 0 20 0 0 2 0 0 0 8 0 0 31 
16:45 - 17:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 22 0 0 4 0 0 0 1 0 0 27 
17:00 - 17:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 12 0 0 9 0 0 0 3 0 0 24 
17:15 - 17:30 0 0 0 0 4 0 15 0 0 1 0 0 0 2 0 0 22 
17:30 - 17:45 0 0 0 0 2 0 12 0 0 4 0 0 0 7 0 0 25 
17:45 - 18:00 0 0 0 0 2 0 19 0 0 1 0 0 0 2 0 0 24 
Intersection Turning Movement Summary 
Northbound 
SB I-80 Off-Ramp 
Southbound 
SB I-80 Off-Ramp 
Eastbound 
SB I-80 Off-Ramp 
SB I-80 Off-Ramp 
Total Entering Vehicles 
116 
104 
MIDDAY PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PHF: 
Old Lincoln Highway Old Lincoln Highway 
Westbound TOTAL 
Period 
Period 
RAW COUNT 
SUMMARIES 
Period 
166387
2364 North 1450 East 
Lehi, UT 84043 
801.636.0891 
Intersection: Hoytsville Road / Old Lincoln Highway & W Hoytsville Road Date: 1-4-23, Wed 
North/South: Hoytsville Road Day of Week Adjustment: 100.0% 
East/West: Old Lincoln Highway & W Hoytsville Road Month of Year Adjustment: 100.0% 
Jurisdiction: Hoytsville Adjustment Station #: 309 
Project  Title: Master Plan TS Growth Rate: 0.0% 
Project No: UT23-2414 Number of Years: 0
Weather: Clear 
AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:00 AM-8:00 AM 
AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 7:15 AM-7:30 AM 87 
AM PHF: 0.89 
86 
-
-
33 54 
PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 4:30 PM-5:30 PM 65 21 
PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 4:30 PM-4:45 PM 
PM PHF: 0.92 2 30 1
0 2 61 2
0 0
0
Old Lincoln Highway & W Hoytsville Road 
4 3
37 13 2 0 102 60 
60 55 0 2 96 57 109 79 
23 42 0 0 7 19 
23 40 
Old Lincoln Highway & W Hoytsville Road 
0
0 0 9 15 5
0 Legend 
35 51 18 
AM 
197 29 Midday 
PM 
110 104 
226 
214 Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds 
AM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
7:00 - 7:15 0 4 1 0 0 19 1 0 0 0 7 0 23 0 1 0 56 
7:15 - 7:30 5 7 0 0 1 20 0 0 0 0 10 0 22 1 1 0 67 
7:30 - 7:45 3 1 1 0 1 15 0 0 1 0 8 0 32 1 0 0 63 
7:45 - 8:00 1 3 3 0 0 7 1 0 1 0 15 0 19 0 2 0 52 
8:00 - 8:15 1 6 2 0 0 12 0 0 1 0 8 0 17 0 1 0 48 
8:15 - 8:30 3 7 2 0 0 9 0 0 0 0 3 0 15 0 1 0 40 
8:30 - 8:45 1 5 0 2 1 17 0 0 0 0 5 0 9 1 4 0 43 
8:45 - 9:00 4 3 1 0 1 5 0 0 0 0 7 0 7 3 0 0 31 
MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
9:00 - 9:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:15 - 9:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:30 - 9:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:45 - 10:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:00 - 10:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:15 - 10:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:30 - 10:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:45 - 11:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:00 - 11:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:15 - 11:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:30 - 11:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:45 - 12:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:00 - 12:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:15 - 12:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:30 - 12:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:45 - 13:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:00 - 13:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:15 - 13:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:30 - 13:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:45 - 14:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:00 - 14:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:15 - 14:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:30 - 14:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:45 - 15:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:00 - 15:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:15 - 15:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:30 - 15:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:45 - 16:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
PM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
16:00 - 16:15 3 13 8 0 1 2 1 0 0 0 3 0 15 1 2 0 49 
16:15 - 16:30 6 8 1 0 0 5 0 0 0 0 3 0 14 1 0 0 38 
16:30 - 16:45 6 10 5 0 0 13 2 0 0 0 9 0 15 0 0 0 60 
16:45 - 17:00 10 16 6 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 4 0 13 0 0 0 52 
17:00 - 17:15 11 12 4 0 0 7 0 0 0 0 2 0 14 0 1 0 51 
17:15 - 17:30 8 13 3 0 1 7 0 0 0 0 8 0 15 0 2 0 57 
17:30 - 17:45 3 15 5 0 0 6 0 0 0 0 4 0 7 1 1 0 42 
17:45 - 18:00 7 14 3 2 0 2 0 0 0 0 4 0 10 0 0 0 40 
Intersection Turning Movement Summary 
Northbound 
Hoytsville Road 
Southbound 
Hoytsville Road 
Eastbound 
Hoytsville Road 
Hoytsville Road 
Total Entering Vehicles 
238 
220 
MIDDAY PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PHF: 
Old Lincoln Highway & W Hoytsville Road Old Lincoln Highway & W Hoytsville Road 
Westbound TOTAL 
Period 
Period 
RAW COUNT 
SUMMARIES 
Period 
167388
2364 North 1450 East 
Lehi, UT 84043 
801.636.0891 
Intersection: S.R. 32 / Old Lincoln Highway Date: 8-23-23, Wed 
North/South: S.R. 32 Day of Week Adjustment: 100.0% 
East/West: Old Lincoln Highway Month of Year Adjustment: 100.0% 
Jurisdiction: Hoytsville Adjustment Station #: 309 
Project  Title: Master Plan TS Growth Rate: 0.0% 
Project No: UT23-2414 Number of Years: 0
Weather: Clear 
AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:00 AM-8:00 AM 
AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 7:00 AM-7:15 AM 1
AM PHF: 0.93 
0
-
-
0 1
PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 4:00 PM-5:00 PM 0 0
PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 4:30 PM-4:45 PM 
PM PHF: 0.93 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0
0
Old Lincoln Highway 
0 0
17 43 13 5 238 150 
57 75 0 0 225 145 293 243 
40 32 5 6 55 93 
35 26 
Old Lincoln Highway 
0
1 1 30 0 49 
0 Legend 
12 1 88 
AM 
251 79 Midday 
PM 
180 101 
330 
281 Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds 
AM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
7:00 - 7:15 11 0 15 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 12 0 53 1 0 0 94 
7:15 - 7:30 4 0 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 4 1 51 1 0 0 71 
7:30 - 7:45 5 0 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 9 0 61 7 0 0 91 
7:45 - 8:00 10 0 16 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 0 60 4 0 0 93 
8:00 - 8:15 5 0 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 0 51 0 0 0 71 
8:15 - 8:30 11 0 12 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 50 2 0 0 76 
8:30 - 8:45 5 0 11 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 39 1 0 0 58 
8:45 - 9:00 4 0 15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 39 1 0 0 63 
MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
9:00 - 9:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:15 - 9:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:30 - 9:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:45 - 10:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:00 - 10:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:15 - 10:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:30 - 10:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:45 - 11:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:00 - 11:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:15 - 11:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:30 - 11:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:45 - 12:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:00 - 12:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:15 - 12:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:30 - 12:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:45 - 13:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:00 - 13:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:15 - 13:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:30 - 13:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:45 - 14:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:00 - 14:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:15 - 14:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:30 - 14:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:45 - 15:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:00 - 15:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:15 - 15:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:30 - 15:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:45 - 16:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
PM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
16:00 - 16:15 1 0 22 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 7 0 38 1 0 0 69 
16:15 - 16:30 3 0 31 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 12 0 27 2 0 0 75 
16:30 - 16:45 7 0 21 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 45 1 0 0 78 
16:45 - 17:00 1 1 14 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 12 1 35 1 0 0 69 
17:00 - 17:15 3 2 19 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 4 0 32 0 0 0 61 
17:15 - 17:30 4 0 20 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 6 0 19 1 0 0 51 
17:30 - 17:45 4 0 25 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 8 0 29 2 0 0 68 
17:45 - 18:00 6 0 26 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 9 0 35 1 0 0 77 
Intersection Turning Movement Summary 
Northbound 
S.R. 32 
Southbound 
S.R. 32 
Eastbound 
S.R. 32 
S.R. 32 
Total Entering Vehicles 
349 
291 
MIDDAY PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PHF: 
Old Lincoln Highway Old Lincoln Highway 
Westbound TOTAL 
Period 
Period 
RAW COUNT 
SUMMARIES 
Period 
168389
2364 North 1450 East 
Lehi, UT 84043 
801.636.0891 
Intersection: S.R. 32 / WB I-80 On-Ramp Date: 8-23-23, Wed 
North/South: S.R. 32 Day of Week Adjustment: 100.0% 
East/West: WB I-80 On-Ramp Month of Year Adjustment: 100.0% 
Jurisdiction: Hoytsville Adjustment Station #: 309 
Project  Title: Master Plan TS Growth Rate: 0.0% 
Project No: UT23-2414 Number of Years: 0
Weather: Clear 
AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:15 AM-8:15 AM 
AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 8:00 AM-8:15 AM 107 
AM PHF: 0.85 
106 
-
-
70 37 
PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 4:00 PM-5:00 PM 97 9
PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 4:15 PM-4:30 PM 
PM PHF: 0.90 70 0 0
0 97 0 0
0 0
0
WB I-80 On-Ramp 
0 0
128 178 0 0 0 0
128 178 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0
WB I-80 On-Ramp 
0
0 0 81 9 0
0 Legend 
58 37 0
AM 
0 90 Midday 
PM 
0 95 
90 
95 Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds 
AM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
7:00 - 7:15 15 13 1 0 0 0 24 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 53 
7:15 - 7:30 18 2 0 0 0 0 26 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 46 
7:30 - 7:45 15 2 0 0 0 0 23 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 40 
7:45 - 8:00 24 3 0 0 0 0 19 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 46 
8:00 - 8:15 24 2 0 0 0 0 29 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 55 
8:15 - 8:30 12 0 0 0 0 0 20 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 32 
8:30 - 8:45 14 2 0 0 0 0 16 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 32 
8:45 - 9:00 12 2 0 0 0 0 12 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 26 
MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
9:00 - 9:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:15 - 9:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:30 - 9:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:45 - 10:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:00 - 10:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:15 - 10:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:30 - 10:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:45 - 11:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:00 - 11:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:15 - 11:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:30 - 11:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:45 - 12:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:00 - 12:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:15 - 12:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:30 - 12:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:45 - 13:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:00 - 13:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:15 - 13:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:30 - 13:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:45 - 14:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:00 - 14:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:15 - 14:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:30 - 14:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:45 - 15:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:00 - 15:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:15 - 15:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:30 - 15:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:45 - 16:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
PM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
16:00 - 16:15 9 17 0 0 0 0 16 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 42 
16:15 - 16:30 19 12 0 0 0 0 15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 46 
16:30 - 16:45 20 5 0 0 0 0 20 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 45 
16:45 - 17:00 10 3 0 0 0 0 19 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 32 
17:00 - 17:15 15 7 0 0 0 0 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 28 
17:15 - 17:30 9 7 0 0 0 0 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 26 
17:30 - 17:45 19 5 0 0 0 0 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 30 
17:45 - 18:00 9 7 2 0 0 0 23 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 41 
Intersection Turning Movement Summary 
Northbound 
S.R. 32 
Southbound 
S.R. 32 
Eastbound 
S.R. 32 
S.R. 32 
Total Entering Vehicles 
187 
165 
MIDDAY PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PHF: 
WB I-80 On-Ramp WB I-80 On-Ramp 
Westbound TOTAL 
Period 
Period 
RAW COUNT 
SUMMARIES 
Period 
169390
2364 North 1450 East 
Lehi, UT 84043 
801.636.0891 
Intersection: SR 32 / EB I-80 Ramps Date: 8-23-23, Wed 
North/South: SR 32 Day of Week Adjustment: 100.0% 
East/West: EB I-80 Ramps Month of Year Adjustment: 100.0% 
Jurisdiction: Hoytsville Adjustment Station #: 309 
Project  Title: Master Plan TS Growth Rate: 0.0% 
Project No: UT23-2414 Number of Years: 0
Weather: Clear 
AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:00 AM-8:00 AM 
AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 7:30 AM-7:45 AM 177 
AM PHF: 0.82 
187 
-
-
94 83 
PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 4:45 PM-5:45 PM 134 53 
PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 5:00 PM-5:15 PM 
PM PHF: 0.95 0 76 18 
0 0 108 26 
0 0
0
EB I-80 Ramps 
0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0
178 98 83 53 0 0 71 118 
178 98 1 0 71 118 
94 45 
EB I-80 Ramps 
0
0 0 0 0 45 
0 Legend 
0 0 99 
AM 
153 45 Midday 
PM 
170 99 
198 
269 Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds 
AM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
7:00 - 7:15 0 0 9 0 9 28 0 0 19 0 9 0 0 0 0 0 74 
7:15 - 7:30 0 0 10 0 10 18 0 0 8 0 11 0 0 0 0 0 57 
7:30 - 7:45 0 0 18 0 5 36 0 0 12 0 13 0 0 0 0 0 84 
7:45 - 8:00 0 0 8 0 2 26 0 0 14 0 12 0 0 0 0 0 62 
8:00 - 8:15 0 0 4 0 1 24 0 0 13 0 20 0 0 0 0 0 62 
8:15 - 8:30 0 0 8 0 2 19 0 0 11 0 16 0 0 0 0 0 56 
8:30 - 8:45 0 0 9 0 1 12 0 0 7 0 21 0 0 0 0 0 50 
8:45 - 9:00 0 0 15 0 0 17 0 0 9 0 14 0 0 0 0 0 55 
MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
9:00 - 9:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:15 - 9:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:30 - 9:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:45 - 10:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:00 - 10:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:15 - 10:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:30 - 10:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:45 - 11:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:00 - 11:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:15 - 11:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:30 - 11:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:45 - 12:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:00 - 12:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:15 - 12:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:30 - 12:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:45 - 13:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:00 - 13:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:15 - 13:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:30 - 13:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:45 - 14:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:00 - 14:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:15 - 14:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:30 - 14:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:45 - 15:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:00 - 15:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:15 - 15:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:30 - 15:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:45 - 16:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
PM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
16:00 - 16:15 0 0 18 0 5 24 0 0 14 0 20 0 0 0 0 0 81 
16:15 - 16:30 1 1 17 0 5 12 1 0 18 0 21 0 0 0 0 0 76 
16:30 - 16:45 0 0 19 0 6 23 0 0 25 0 13 0 0 0 0 0 86 
16:45 - 17:00 0 0 19 0 5 20 0 0 12 1 35 0 0 0 0 0 92 
17:00 - 17:15 0 0 29 0 3 23 0 0 27 0 16 0 0 0 0 0 98 
17:15 - 17:30 0 0 24 0 1 13 0 0 22 0 24 0 0 0 0 0 84 
17:30 - 17:45 0 0 27 0 9 20 0 0 22 0 19 0 0 0 0 0 97 
17:45 - 18:00 0 0 26 0 2 15 0 0 28 0 19 0 0 0 0 0 90 
Intersection Turning Movement Summary 
Northbound 
SR 32 
Southbound 
SR 32 
Eastbound 
SR 32 
SR 32 
Total Entering Vehicles 
277 
371 
MIDDAY PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PHF: 
EB I-80 Ramps EB I-80 Ramps 
Westbound TOTAL 
Period 
Period 
RAW COUNT 
SUMMARIES 
Period 
170391
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
APPENDIX B 
LOS Results 
  
171392
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Existing (2023) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 130 128 99 8.1 A
T 1 1 100 2.8 A
R 12 12 102 5.1 A
Subtotal 143 141 99 7.8 A
T 36 36 100 0.4 A
R 24 25 103 0.1 A
Subtotal 60 61 102 0.3 A
L 198 192 97 3.1 A
T 34 34 101 2.5 A
Subtotal 232 226 97 3.0 A
Total 434 428 99 4.3 A
Intersection: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 14 12 86 6.0 A
R 80 84 105 0.6 A
Subtotal 94 96 102 1.3 A
L 16 17 105 4.1 A
T 150 149 99 1.1 A
Subtotal 166 166 100 1.4 A
T 218 215 99 2.4 A
R 38 42 110 3.2 A
Subtotal 256 257 100 2.5 A
Total 517 519 100 2.0 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
EB
WB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
172393
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Existing (2023) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Main Street & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 54 50 92 4.5 A
T 133 130 98 1.2 A
Subtotal 187 180 96 2.1 A
T 62 64 103 2.0 A
R 202 207 103 1.0 A
Subtotal 264 271 103 1.2 A
L 190 194 102 10.6 B
R 40 39 97 3.2 A
Subtotal 230 233 101 9.4 A
Total 682 684 100 4.2 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 1 0 0
T 116 116 100 0.2 A
Subtotal 117 116 99 0.2 A
T 73 73 100 0.2 A
R 14 17 121 0.1 A
Subtotal 87 90 103 0.2 A
L 31 30 96 4.6 A
R 3 4 123 2.4 A
Subtotal 34 34 100 4.3 A
Total 239 240 100 0.8 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
173394
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Existing (2023) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 71 69 98 0.2 A
R 6 9 144 0.1 A
Subtotal 77 78 101 0.2 A
L 21 20 96 1.9 A
T 55 54 98 0.2 A
Subtotal 76 74 97 0.7 A
L 9 9 103 4.6 A
R 19 20 104 2.7 A
Subtotal 28 29 104 3.3 A
Total 181 181 100 0.9 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 4 76 0.9 A
T 63 64 102 0.1 A
Subtotal 68 68 100 0.1 A
T 45 41 91 0.1 A
R 5 8 152 0.1 A
Subtotal 50 49 98 0.1 A
L 4 4 94 3.7 A
R 5 6 114 1.4 A
Subtotal 9 10 111 2.3 A
Total 128 127 99 0.3 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
174395
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Existing (2023) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 29 31 108 0.1 A
Subtotal 29 31 107 0.1 A
T 65 64 98 0.2 A
R 9 12 130 0.1 A
Subtotal 74 76 103 0.2 A
L 15 15 98 4.3 A
R 1 2 200 2.1 A
Subtotal 16 17 106 4.0 A
Total 120 124 104 0.7 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 7 6 83 3.7 A
Subtotal 7 6 86 3.7 A
T 9 11 119 0.2 A
R 1 1 100 0.1 A
Subtotal 10 12 120 0.2 A
L 1 0 0
T 16 21 129 0.0 A
Subtotal 17 21 124 0.0 A
Total 35 39 112 0.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
NE
SW
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
175396
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Existing (2023) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 9 11 119 0.4 A
Subtotal 9 11 122 0.4 A
T 24 27 115 0.5 A
Subtotal 24 27 113 0.5 A
L 1 1 100 2.8 A
R 90 90 100 2.9 A
Subtotal 91 91 100 2.9 A
Total 124 129 104 2.2 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 16 16 98 2.1 A
T 32 31 98 0.5 A
R 7 10 138 0.5 A
Subtotal 55 57 104 0.9 A
L 2 2 100 1.8 A
T 75 77 103 0.2 A
R 2 2 100 0.0 A
Subtotal 79 81 103 0.2 A
L 2 2 100 5.4 A
R 51 52 101 1.3 A
Subtotal 53 54 102 1.5 A
L 107 109 102 5.2 A
T 3 3 100 5.9 A
R 4 5 125 2.8 A
Subtotal 114 117 103 5.1 A
Total 301 309 103 2.4 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
WB
SW
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
EB
176397
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Existing (2023) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 30 30 101 2.3 A
T 0 0 0
R 49 52 106 0.5 A
Subtotal 79 82 104 1.2 A
T 6 4 67 8.1 A
R 26 28 109 4.5 A
Subtotal 32 32 100 5.0 A
L 225 228 101 2.3 A
T 14 16 119 2.4 A
Subtotal 239 244 102 2.3 A
Total 349 358 103 2.3 A
Intersection: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 81 79 98 3.4 A
T 80 84 105 1.0 A
Subtotal 161 163 101 2.2 A
T 153 155 101 1.5 A
R 97 103 106 1.1 A
Subtotal 250 258 103 1.3 A
Total 411 421 102 1.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
177398
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Existing (2023) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 107 108 101 0.6 A
R 45 44 98 0.3 A
Subtotal 152 152 100 0.5 A
L 26 26 101 2.6 A
T 110 109 100 0.7 A
Subtotal 136 135 99 1.1 A
L 53 54 101 5.5 A
R 45 45 100 3.7 A
Subtotal 98 99 101 4.7 A
Total 385 386 100 1.8 A
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
178399
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Existing (2023) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 56 57 102 5.3 A
R 19 19 99 3.0 A
Subtotal 75 76 101 4.7 A
T 39 36 92 0.2 A
R 22 23 103 0.1 A
Subtotal 61 59 97 0.2 A
L 96 97 101 2.1 A
T 30 29 96 0.7 A
Subtotal 126 126 100 1.8 A
Total 263 261 99 2.3 A
Intersection: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 9 9 100 4.8 A
R 214 214 100 0.9 A
Subtotal 223 223 100 1.1 A
L 13 11 85 2.2 A
T 83 83 100 0.7 A
Subtotal 96 94 98 0.9 A
T 117 117 100 0.5 A
R 92 93 101 0.4 A
Subtotal 209 210 100 0.5 A
Total 528 527 100 0.8 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
EB
WB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
179400
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Existing (2023) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Main Street & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 56 54 97 3.5 A
T 104 109 105 0.9 A
Subtotal 160 163 102 1.8 A
T 100 99 99 1.5 A
R 153 156 102 0.7 A
Subtotal 253 255 101 1.0 A
L 221 217 98 9.3 A
T 0 0 0
R 75 78 104 4.2 A
Subtotal 296 295 100 8.0 A
Total 709 713 101 4.1 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 9 92 1.3 A
T 95 98 103 0.3 A
Subtotal 105 107 102 0.4 A
T 95 91 96 0.4 A
R 30 30 100 0.2 A
Subtotal 125 121 97 0.4 A
L 15 14 93 4.8 A
R 5 6 114 2.3 A
Subtotal 20 20 100 4.1 A
Total 250 248 99 0.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
180401
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Existing (2023) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 87 85 98 0.1 A
R 9 9 100 0.1 A
Subtotal 96 94 98 0.1 A
L 11 10 89 1.0 A
T 62 62 100 0.2 A
Subtotal 73 72 99 0.3 A
L 3 3 92 4.0 A
R 13 12 91 2.6 A
Subtotal 16 15 94 2.9 A
Total 186 181 98 0.4 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 5 95 1.1 A
T 72 73 101 0.1 A
Subtotal 77 78 101 0.2 A
T 74 72 97 0.2 A
R 11 11 102 0.1 A
Subtotal 85 83 98 0.2 A
L 4 4 94 4.0 A
R 5 5 95 1.6 A
Subtotal 9 9 100 2.7 A
Total 172 170 99 0.3 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
181402
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Existing (2023) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 5 95 1.1 A
T 69 70 101 0.3 A
Subtotal 74 75 101 0.4 A
T 35 32 92 0.3 A
R 14 15 107 0.1 A
Subtotal 49 47 96 0.2 A
L 5 6 114 3.7 A
R 2 3 150 1.5 A
Subtotal 7 9 129 3.0 A
Total 130 131 100 0.5 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 1 1 100 2.3 A
Subtotal 1 1 100 2.3 A
T 15 14 92 0.5 A
R 6 6 100 0.2 A
Subtotal 21 20 95 0.4 A
T 22 23 106 0.0 A
Subtotal 22 23 105 0.0 A
Total 44 44 100 0.3 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
NE
SW
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
182403
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Existing (2023) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 16 17 105 0.2 A
Subtotal 16 17 106 0.2 A
T 23 24 104 0.2 A
Subtotal 23 24 104 0.2 A
L 5 3 60 4.8 A
R 69 68 99 2.7 A
Subtotal 74 71 96 2.8 A
Total 113 112 99 1.8 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 35 34 97 2.1 A
T 51 52 101 0.8 A
R 15 16 105 0.5 A
Subtotal 101 102 101 1.2 A
L 1 0 0
T 30 32 108 0.2 A
R 2 3 150 0.1 A
Subtotal 33 35 106 0.2 A
R 30 30 101 1.3 A
Subtotal 30 30 100 1.3 A
L 80 79 99 5.0 A
R 12 12 98 2.6 A
Subtotal 92 91 99 4.7 A
Total 256 258 101 2.3 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
WB
SW
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
EB
183404
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Existing (2023) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 12 10 82 1.2 A
T 20 21 108 0.1 A
R 88 90 102 0.3 A
Subtotal 120 121 101 0.3 A
T 5 4 80 9.3 A
R 35 38 109 4.3 A
Subtotal 40 42 105 4.8 A
L 145 145 100 2.0 A
T 5 6 120 2.7 A
Subtotal 150 151 101 2.0 A
Total 310 314 101 1.8 A
Intersection: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 58 56 96 2.8 A
T 121 122 101 0.8 A
Subtotal 179 178 99 1.4 A
T 110 114 104 0.8 A
R 70 69 99 0.6 A
Subtotal 180 183 102 0.7 A
Total 359 361 101 1.1 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
184405
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Existing (2023) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 95 97 102 0.6 A
R 45 46 102 0.3 A
Subtotal 140 143 102 0.5 A
L 18 17 93 2.1 A
T 76 77 101 0.5 A
Subtotal 94 94 100 0.8 A
L 83 80 96 5.9 A
T 1 1 100 7.7 A
R 94 92 98 3.9 A
Subtotal 178 173 97 4.8 A
Total 413 410 99 2.4 A
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
185406
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 140 140 100 8.7 A
T 5 4 84 10.2 B
R 15 15 100 5.2 A
Subtotal 160 159 99 8.4 A
T 40 36 89 0.5 A
R 25 25 99 0.1 A
Subtotal 65 61 94 0.3 A
L 210 214 102 3.3 A
T 36 35 98 2.5 A
Subtotal 246 249 101 3.2 A
Total 471 469 100 4.6 A
Intersection: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 15 15 100 7.0 A
R 85 79 93 0.6 A
Subtotal 100 94 94 1.6 A
L 20 17 86 3.8 A
T 160 159 99 1.1 A
Subtotal 180 176 98 1.4 A
T 230 233 101 2.2 A
R 40 37 92 3.1 A
Subtotal 270 270 100 2.3 A
Total 551 540 98 1.9 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
EB
WB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
186407
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Main Street & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 60 60 100 4.2 A
T 140 144 103 1.3 A
Subtotal 200 204 102 2.2 A
T 65 68 105 2.0 A
R 210 209 100 1.0 A
Subtotal 275 277 101 1.2 A
L 200 192 96 10.9 B
T 0 0 0
R 45 46 102 3.4 A
Subtotal 245 238 97 9.5 A
Total 720 719 100 4.2 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 5 95 1.1 A
T 120 115 96 0.2 A
Subtotal 125 120 96 0.2 A
T 80 83 104 0.2 A
R 15 14 93 0.0 A
Subtotal 95 97 102 0.2 A
L 35 34 98 4.6 A
R 5 7 133 2.3 A
Subtotal 40 41 103 4.2 A
Total 260 258 99 0.9 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
187408
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 75 74 99 0.1 A
R 10 10 103 0.1 A
Subtotal 85 84 99 0.1 A
L 25 26 104 1.8 A
T 60 62 104 0.2 A
Subtotal 85 88 104 0.7 A
L 10 8 82 5.0 A
R 20 23 116 2.9 A
Subtotal 30 31 103 3.4 A
Total 199 203 102 0.9 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 9 90 1.1 A
T 35 38 108 0.2 A
Subtotal 45 47 104 0.4 A
T 50 47 94 0.3 A
R 10 12 120 0.1 A
Subtotal 60 59 98 0.3 A
L 5 5 95 3.5 A
R 10 10 100 1.9 A
Subtotal 15 15 100 2.4 A
Total 120 121 101 0.5 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
188409
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 5 105 1.2 A
T 30 31 104 0.1 A
Subtotal 35 36 103 0.3 A
T 70 69 99 0.2 A
R 10 12 123 0.1 A
Subtotal 80 81 101 0.2 A
L 20 23 115 4.3 A
R 5 5 105 3.1 A
Subtotal 25 28 112 4.1 A
Total 139 145 104 1.0 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 9 88 4.0 A
R 5 7 140 2.3 A
Subtotal 15 16 107 3.3 A
T 20 18 91 0.3 A
R 5 5 100 0.3 A
Subtotal 25 23 92 0.3 A
L 5 4 80 2.0 A
T 20 20 101 0.1 A
Subtotal 25 24 96 0.4 A
Total 65 63 97 1.1 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
NE
SW
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
189410
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 21 21 101 0.9 A
Subtotal 21 21 100 0.9 A
T 30 29 97 0.6 A
Subtotal 30 29 97 0.6 A
L 5 5 100 4.1 A
R 95 98 103 2.9 A
Subtotal 100 103 103 3.0 A
Total 151 153 101 2.2 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 20 19 96 2.6 A
T 30 34 111 0.8 A
R 10 12 117 0.4 A
Subtotal 60 65 108 1.3 A
L 5 3 60 1.5 A
T 80 81 101 0.3 A
R 5 7 140 0.1 A
Subtotal 90 91 101 0.3 A
L 5 4 80 4.8 A
T 5 5 100 5.3 A
R 55 56 101 1.4 A
Subtotal 65 65 100 1.9 A
L 115 117 102 5.5 A
T 6 7 117 5.5 A
R 5 5 100 3.5 A
Subtotal 126 129 102 5.4 A
Total 342 350 102 2.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
WB
SW
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
EB
190411
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 35 34 97 2.5 A
R 50 54 107 0.8 A
Subtotal 85 88 104 1.5 A
T 10 9 88 9.2 A
R 30 29 97 5.0 A
Subtotal 40 38 95 6.0 A
L 235 238 101 2.4 A
T 16 17 106 2.1 A
Subtotal 251 255 102 2.4 A
Total 376 381 101 2.5 A
Intersection: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 85 81 95 3.3 A
T 85 88 103 1.0 A
Subtotal 170 169 99 2.1 A
T 165 169 102 1.5 A
R 100 97 97 1.1 A
Subtotal 265 266 100 1.4 A
Total 435 435 100 1.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
191412
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 115 113 98 0.7 A
R 50 48 96 0.4 A
Subtotal 165 161 98 0.6 A
L 30 32 108 2.7 A
T 115 118 102 0.7 A
Subtotal 145 150 103 1.1 A
L 55 55 100 5.7 A
R 50 53 105 3.7 A
Subtotal 105 108 103 4.7 A
Total 416 419 101 1.9 A
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
192413
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 60 57 95 5.3 A
T 5 5 100 5.8 A
R 20 21 104 3.0 A
Subtotal 85 83 98 4.7 A
T 40 39 97 0.3 A
R 25 28 111 0.1 A
Subtotal 65 67 103 0.2 A
L 100 93 93 2.2 A
T 36 32 89 1.0 A
Subtotal 136 125 92 1.9 A
Total 286 275 96 2.4 A
Intersection: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 8 80 6.1 A
T 5 6 120 7.0 A
R 225 232 103 1.0 A
Subtotal 240 246 103 1.3 A
L 15 15 100 2.5 A
T 85 82 96 0.7 A
Subtotal 100 97 97 1.0 A
T 126 117 93 0.5 A
R 95 90 95 0.4 A
Subtotal 221 207 94 0.5 A
Total 562 550 98 0.9 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
EB
WB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
193414
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Main Street & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 60 55 92 3.4 A
T 110 109 99 0.8 A
Subtotal 170 164 96 1.7 A
T 105 110 105 1.4 A
R 160 152 95 0.7 A
Subtotal 265 262 99 1.0 A
L 230 233 101 10.0 A
T 1 2 200 0.6 A
R 80 79 99 4.2 A
Subtotal 311 314 101 8.5 A
Total 746 740 99 4.4 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 15 12 80 1.7 A
T 100 101 101 0.3 A
Subtotal 115 113 98 0.4 A
T 100 104 104 0.5 A
R 35 37 105 0.2 A
Subtotal 135 141 104 0.4 A
L 20 20 99 4.7 A
R 10 9 92 2.5 A
Subtotal 30 29 97 4.0 A
Total 281 283 101 0.8 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
194415
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 90 87 97 0.2 A
R 10 10 100 0.0 A
Subtotal 100 97 97 0.2 A
L 15 13 88 1.3 A
T 65 66 101 0.2 A
Subtotal 80 79 99 0.4 A
L 5 5 105 4.5 A
R 15 14 95 2.8 A
Subtotal 20 19 95 3.2 A
Total 200 195 98 0.6 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 8 82 1.2 A
T 75 77 103 0.1 A
Subtotal 85 85 100 0.2 A
T 80 80 100 0.3 A
R 15 16 108 0.1 A
Subtotal 95 96 101 0.3 A
L 5 4 76 4.5 A
R 10 10 103 1.8 A
Subtotal 15 14 93 2.6 A
Total 195 195 100 0.4 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
195416
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 9 92 1.2 A
T 75 81 108 0.3 A
Subtotal 85 90 106 0.4 A
T 40 39 98 0.3 A
R 15 17 111 0.1 A
Subtotal 55 56 102 0.2 A
L 10 10 103 3.9 A
R 5 6 114 1.7 A
Subtotal 15 16 107 3.1 A
Total 155 162 105 0.6 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 4 80 3.6 A
R 5 6 120 1.4 A
Subtotal 10 10 100 2.3 A
T 30 29 97 0.5 A
R 10 11 107 0.3 A
Subtotal 40 40 100 0.4 A
L 5 4 80 1.3 A
T 25 28 113 0.1 A
Subtotal 30 32 107 0.3 A
Total 80 82 103 0.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
NE
SW
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
196417
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 31 33 107 0.6 A
Subtotal 31 33 106 0.6 A
T 30 31 103 0.4 A
Subtotal 30 31 103 0.4 A
L 10 8 78 4.3 A
R 75 74 99 2.8 A
Subtotal 85 82 96 2.9 A
Total 146 146 100 1.9 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 40 41 102 2.2 A
T 55 58 105 1.0 A
R 20 22 111 0.6 A
Subtotal 115 121 105 1.3 A
L 5 4 80 2.1 A
T 35 33 94 0.2 A
R 5 5 100 0.0 A
Subtotal 45 42 93 0.4 A
L 5 4 80 5.2 A
T 5 6 120 6.1 A
R 35 36 103 1.4 A
Subtotal 45 46 102 2.3 A
L 85 84 99 5.5 A
T 6 5 91 6.0 A
R 15 17 111 2.9 A
Subtotal 106 106 100 5.1 A
Total 311 315 101 2.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
WB
SW
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
EB
197418
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 15 14 92 1.3 A
T 20 22 111 0.2 A
R 95 100 105 0.3 A
Subtotal 130 136 105 0.4 A
T 10 9 88 7.2 A
R 40 40 100 4.3 A
Subtotal 50 49 98 4.8 A
L 150 146 97 2.3 A
T 10 11 107 2.0 A
Subtotal 160 157 98 2.3 A
Total 340 342 100 1.9 A
Intersection: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 60 59 99 2.9 A
T 130 136 104 0.8 A
Subtotal 190 195 103 1.4 A
T 115 117 102 0.9 A
R 75 69 92 0.6 A
Subtotal 190 186 98 0.8 A
Total 380 381 100 1.1 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
198419
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 100 105 105 0.7 A
R 50 47 94 0.4 A
Subtotal 150 152 101 0.6 A
L 20 19 96 2.4 A
T 80 84 105 0.5 A
Subtotal 100 103 103 0.9 A
L 90 90 100 6.0 A
T 5 5 100 6.6 A
R 100 98 98 4.1 A
Subtotal 195 193 99 5.1 A
Total 445 448 101 2.6 A
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
199420
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 142 141 99 9.1 A
T 5 5 105 8.7 A
R 15 17 113 5.9 A
Subtotal 162 163 101 8.8 A
T 40 40 99 0.5 A
R 25 26 103 0.1 A
Subtotal 65 66 102 0.3 A
L 214 211 99 3.5 A
T 36 36 101 2.5 A
Subtotal 250 247 99 3.4 A
Total 477 476 100 4.8 A
Intersection: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 15 16 107 6.2 A
R 88 90 102 0.6 A
Subtotal 103 106 103 1.4 A
L 20 19 96 3.9 A
T 163 161 99 1.1 A
Subtotal 183 180 98 1.4 A
T 234 231 99 2.9 A
R 45 48 107 3.0 A
Subtotal 279 279 100 2.9 A
Total 565 565 100 2.2 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
EB
WB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
200421
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Main Street & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 69 66 95 4.7 A
T 166 161 97 1.6 A
Subtotal 235 227 97 2.5 A
T 81 78 96 2.1 A
R 210 212 101 1.1 A
Subtotal 291 290 100 1.4 A
L 200 201 100 14.1 B
T 1 1 133 0.9 A
R 50 48 96 3.6 A
Subtotal 251 250 100 12.0 B
Total 776 767 99 5.2 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 4 76 1.1 A
T 155 158 102 0.3 A
Subtotal 160 162 101 0.3 A
T 101 101 100 0.2 A
R 15 15 100 0.1 A
Subtotal 116 116 100 0.2 A
L 35 34 98 5.0 A
R 5 6 114 2.2 A
Subtotal 40 40 100 4.6 A
Total 317 318 100 0.8 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
201422
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 110 112 102 0.4 A
R 10 8 82 0.4 A
Subtotal 120 120 100 0.4 A
L 25 24 96 2.0 A
T 81 83 102 0.2 A
Subtotal 106 107 101 0.6 A
L 10 9 92 5.3 A
R 20 23 116 3.0 A
Subtotal 30 32 107 3.6 A
Total 255 259 101 0.9 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 11 110 1.0 A
T 53 54 102 0.2 A
Subtotal 63 65 103 0.3 A
T 85 87 103 0.5 A
R 14 13 91 0.2 A
Subtotal 99 100 101 0.5 A
L 8 5 65 4.5 A
R 10 9 90 1.7 A
Subtotal 18 14 78 2.7 A
Total 180 179 100 0.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
202423
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 5 105 1.1 A
T 48 50 105 0.2 A
Subtotal 53 55 104 0.3 A
T 102 107 105 0.2 A
R 10 10 103 0.1 A
Subtotal 112 117 104 0.2 A
L 20 21 105 4.4 A
R 5 5 105 3.1 A
Subtotal 25 26 104 4.2 A
Total 189 198 105 0.8 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 9 88 3.8 A
R 5 6 120 2.3 A
Subtotal 15 15 100 3.2 A
T 22 18 83 0.2 A
R 5 6 120 0.2 A
Subtotal 27 24 89 0.2 A
L 5 4 80 1.6 A
T 23 22 97 0.0 A
Subtotal 28 26 93 0.2 A
Total 70 65 93 0.9 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
NE
SW
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
203424
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 23 21 92 0.9 A
Subtotal 23 21 91 0.9 A
T 33 31 94 0.6 A
Subtotal 33 31 94 0.6 A
L 5 4 80 3.9 A
R 95 94 99 2.9 A
Subtotal 100 98 98 2.9 A
Total 156 150 96 2.1 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 20 17 86 2.6 A
T 46 44 96 0.7 A
R 12 12 98 0.5 A
Subtotal 78 73 94 1.1 A
L 5 5 100 1.8 A
T 109 112 103 0.4 A
R 5 7 140 0.1 A
Subtotal 119 124 104 0.4 A
L 5 4 80 4.8 A
T 5 5 100 6.4 A
R 55 61 110 1.5 A
Subtotal 65 70 108 2.0 A
L 118 112 95 5.8 A
T 7 7 104 6.1 A
R 5 6 120 3.1 A
Subtotal 130 125 96 5.7 A
Total 392 392 100 2.5 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
WB
SW
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
EB
204425
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 35 34 97 2.6 A
R 68 64 94 0.7 A
Subtotal 103 98 95 1.4 A
T 10 9 88 11.4 B
R 30 30 101 5.4 A
Subtotal 40 39 98 6.8 A
L 265 266 100 2.5 A
T 17 20 116 2.1 A
Subtotal 282 286 101 2.5 A
Total 425 423 100 2.6 A
Intersection: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 85 80 94 3.5 A
T 104 98 94 1.1 A
Subtotal 189 178 94 2.2 A
T 168 173 103 1.7 A
R 126 125 99 1.2 A
Subtotal 294 298 101 1.5 A
Total 483 476 98 1.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
205426
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 118 108 92 0.7 A
R 50 51 101 0.4 A
Subtotal 168 159 95 0.6 A
L 30 28 94 2.4 A
T 119 123 103 0.8 A
Subtotal 149 151 101 1.1 A
L 70 69 99 6.0 A
R 50 50 100 3.8 A
Subtotal 120 119 99 5.1 A
Total 437 429 98 2.0 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 1
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 8 78 1.9 A
T 58 58 101 0.3 A
Subtotal 68 66 97 0.5 A
T 80 82 102 0.4 A
R 11 10 93 0.4 A
Subtotal 91 92 101 0.4 A
L 18 16 90 4.4 A
R 18 22 124 2.7 A
Subtotal 36 38 106 3.4 A
Total 194 196 101 1.0 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
206427
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 2
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 11 9 84 1.5 A
T 52 53 101 0.7 A
Subtotal 63 62 98 0.8 A
T 78 80 102 0.4 A
R 10 11 107 0.3 A
Subtotal 88 91 103 0.4 A
L 17 16 96 4.8 A
R 18 18 101 2.7 A
Subtotal 35 34 97 3.7 A
Total 186 187 100 1.1 A
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
207428
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 72 67 93 5.7 A
T 5 7 140 5.3 A
R 20 21 104 3.4 A
Subtotal 97 95 98 5.2 A
T 40 38 94 0.4 A
R 25 26 103 0.1 A
Subtotal 65 64 98 0.3 A
L 104 104 100 3.2 A
T 36 35 99 2.0 A
Subtotal 140 139 99 2.9 A
Total 302 298 99 3.1 A
Intersection: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 9 90 5.9 A
T 5 6 120 6.0 A
R 230 238 103 1.0 A
Subtotal 245 253 103 1.3 A
L 15 12 80 3.2 A
T 98 94 96 0.8 A
Subtotal 113 106 94 1.1 A
T 130 130 100 4.5 A
R 106 111 105 3.1 A
Subtotal 236 241 102 3.9 A
Total 594 600 101 2.3 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
EB
WB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
208429
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Main Street & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 75 74 99 4.2 A
T 140 148 106 1.3 A
Subtotal 215 222 103 2.3 A
T 143 144 101 1.7 A
R 160 167 105 0.8 A
Subtotal 303 311 103 1.2 A
L 230 232 101 12.2 B
R 97 99 102 4.6 A
Subtotal 327 331 101 9.9 A
Total 845 864 102 4.8 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 15 15 100 1.7 A
T 145 151 104 0.4 A
Subtotal 160 166 104 0.5 A
T 155 150 97 0.6 A
R 35 37 105 0.3 A
Subtotal 190 187 98 0.5 A
L 20 20 99 5.2 A
R 10 11 113 2.6 A
Subtotal 30 31 103 4.3 A
Total 380 384 101 0.8 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
209430
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 135 126 93 0.8 A
R 10 11 110 0.6 A
Subtotal 145 137 94 0.8 A
L 15 15 102 2.0 A
T 120 118 98 0.2 A
Subtotal 135 133 99 0.4 A
L 5 4 84 6.0 A
R 15 15 102 2.8 A
Subtotal 20 19 95 3.5 A
Total 300 289 96 0.8 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 12 123 1.0 A
T 119 114 96 0.2 A
Subtotal 129 126 98 0.3 A
T 115 115 100 0.6 A
R 19 18 95 0.3 A
Subtotal 134 133 99 0.6 A
L 10 9 92 5.0 A
R 10 10 103 2.0 A
Subtotal 20 19 95 3.4 A
Total 282 278 98 0.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
210431
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 10 103 1.3 A
T 119 121 101 0.3 A
Subtotal 129 131 102 0.4 A
T 74 72 98 0.3 A
R 15 16 105 0.2 A
Subtotal 89 88 99 0.3 A
L 10 11 113 5.0 A
R 5 7 133 2.8 A
Subtotal 15 18 120 4.1 A
Total 233 237 102 0.6 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 5 100 4.0 A
R 5 6 120 2.3 A
Subtotal 10 11 110 3.1 A
T 34 31 91 0.5 A
R 10 11 107 0.3 A
Subtotal 44 42 95 0.4 A
L 5 4 80 1.5 A
T 28 31 112 0.0 A
Subtotal 33 35 106 0.2 A
Total 87 88 101 0.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
NE
SW
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
211432
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 35 34 97 0.7 A
Subtotal 35 34 97 0.7 A
T 34 37 110 0.4 A
Subtotal 34 37 109 0.4 A
L 10 9 88 4.1 A
R 75 72 96 2.8 A
Subtotal 85 81 95 2.9 A
Total 154 152 99 1.8 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 40 37 92 2.5 A
T 95 98 103 1.1 A
R 24 25 105 0.8 A
Subtotal 159 160 101 1.4 A
L 5 4 80 2.3 A
T 66 63 96 0.2 A
R 5 5 100 0.2 A
Subtotal 76 72 95 0.3 A
L 5 4 80 5.7 A
T 5 4 80 7.7 A
R 35 35 100 1.3 A
Subtotal 45 43 96 2.3 A
L 88 84 95 6.0 A
T 6 8 133 6.3 A
R 15 16 105 2.8 A
Subtotal 109 108 99 5.5 A
Total 389 383 98 2.5 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
WB
SW
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
EB
212433
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 15 14 92 1.9 A
T 20 21 106 0.2 A
R 136 136 100 0.5 A
Subtotal 171 171 100 0.6 A
T 13 14 106 9.4 A
R 40 37 92 4.4 A
Subtotal 53 51 96 5.8 A
L 183 175 96 1.9 A
T 11 11 98 1.8 A
Subtotal 194 186 96 1.9 A
Total 418 408 97 1.8 A
Intersection: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 60 59 99 3.2 A
T 172 172 100 0.9 A
Subtotal 232 231 100 1.5 A
T 119 110 92 1.3 A
R 104 102 98 0.8 A
Subtotal 223 212 95 1.1 A
Total 454 443 97 1.3 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
213434
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 105 106 101 0.8 A
R 50 49 98 0.3 A
Subtotal 155 155 100 0.6 A
L 20 17 86 2.6 A
T 84 78 93 0.6 A
Subtotal 104 95 91 1.0 A
L 126 124 98 6.4 A
T 5 5 100 7.1 A
R 100 98 98 4.7 A
Subtotal 231 227 98 5.7 A
Total 490 477 97 3.1 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 1
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 24 20 83 2.2 A
T 102 98 96 0.4 A
Subtotal 126 118 94 0.7 A
T 122 119 98 0.6 A
R 28 25 88 0.5 A
Subtotal 150 144 96 0.6 A
L 23 22 96 5.4 A
R 18 19 107 3.1 A
Subtotal 41 41 100 4.3 A
Total 316 303 96 1.1 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
214435
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 2
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 25 24 96 1.5 A
T 105 100 95 1.0 A
Subtotal 130 124 95 1.1 A
T 113 110 97 0.6 A
R 27 28 103 0.3 A
Subtotal 140 138 99 0.5 A
L 22 20 91 5.2 A
R 20 22 110 2.9 A
Subtotal 42 42 100 4.0 A
Total 312 304 97 1.2 A
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
215436
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 199 201 101 13.2 B
T 5 6 114 10.7 B
R 15 16 105 8.9 A
Subtotal 219 223 102 12.8 B
T 40 37 92 0.6 A
R 30 34 111 0.1 A
Subtotal 70 71 101 0.4 A
L 314 305 97 4.7 A
T 40 43 106 4.4 A
Subtotal 354 348 98 4.7 A
Total 645 642 100 7.0 A
Intersection: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 20 18 91 8.5 A
T 5 5 95 9.3 A
R 126 123 97 0.9 A
Subtotal 151 146 97 2.1 A
L 20 18 91 14.5 B
T 219 219 100 10.3 B
Subtotal 239 237 99 10.6 B
T 334 328 98 7.4 A
R 161 163 101 3.8 A
Subtotal 495 491 99 6.2 A
Total 886 874 99 6.8 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
EB
WB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
216437
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Main Street & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 270 265 98 9.4 A
T 323 321 99 7.1 A
Subtotal 593 586 99 8.1 A
T 160 157 98 2.4 A
R 225 226 101 1.4 A
Subtotal 385 383 99 1.8 A
L 215 203 94 202.6 F
T 1 1 133 30.0 D
R 130 124 95 25.3 D
Subtotal 346 328 95 135.0 F
Total 1,324 1,297 98 40.3 E
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 4 76 1.9 A
T 513 527 103 0.5 A
Subtotal 518 531 103 0.5 A
T 260 268 103 0.4 A
R 20 20 99 0.2 A
Subtotal 280 288 103 0.4 A
L 35 34 98 9.9 A
R 5 5 95 3.2 A
Subtotal 40 39 98 9.0 A
Total 838 858 102 0.9 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
217438
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 301 298 99 0.8 A
R 15 17 111 0.6 A
Subtotal 316 315 100 0.8 A
L 25 26 104 2.8 A
T 186 186 100 0.4 A
Subtotal 211 212 100 0.7 A
L 12 10 83 7.1 A
R 25 23 92 3.8 A
Subtotal 37 33 89 4.8 A
Total 564 560 99 1.0 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 15 13 85 2.4 A
T 184 183 99 0.7 A
Subtotal 199 196 98 0.8 A
T 201 202 100 0.9 A
R 30 29 97 0.4 A
Subtotal 231 231 100 0.8 A
L 39 38 98 6.3 A
T 3 3 100 0.4 A
R 33 34 103 3.1 A
Subtotal 75 75 100 4.6 A
Total 505 502 99 1.4 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
218439
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 4 84 1.7 A
T 126 128 102 0.3 A
Subtotal 131 132 101 0.3 A
T 245 238 97 0.4 A
R 10 10 103 0.2 A
Subtotal 255 248 97 0.4 A
L 20 18 90 5.6 A
R 5 6 126 3.2 A
Subtotal 25 24 96 5.0 A
Total 410 404 98 0.6 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 8 78 4.1 A
R 5 7 140 2.2 A
Subtotal 15 15 100 3.2 A
T 28 26 94 0.3 A
R 5 5 100 0.1 A
Subtotal 33 31 94 0.3 A
L 5 4 80 1.6 A
T 35 34 97 0.1 A
Subtotal 40 38 95 0.3 A
Total 88 84 95 0.8 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
NE
SW
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
219440
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 29 29 101 0.7 A
Subtotal 29 29 100 0.7 A
T 45 41 91 0.6 A
Subtotal 45 41 91 0.6 A
L 5 4 80 5.1 A
R 100 96 96 3.1 A
Subtotal 105 100 95 3.2 A
Total 179 170 95 2.1 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 20 20 101 3.4 A
T 118 126 107 1.2 A
R 18 20 110 0.7 A
Subtotal 156 166 106 1.4 A
L 5 4 80 1.9 A
T 240 238 99 0.6 A
R 5 6 120 0.3 A
Subtotal 250 248 99 0.6 A
L 5 6 120 6.6 A
T 5 5 100 8.2 A
R 60 60 100 1.5 A
Subtotal 70 71 101 2.4 A
L 135 126 93 8.3 A
T 6 7 127 7.8 A
R 5 5 100 3.7 A
Subtotal 146 138 95 8.1 A
Total 622 623 100 2.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
WB
SW
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
EB
220441
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 35 33 94 6.4 A
T 1 1 133 0.0 A
R 143 152 106 1.4 A
Subtotal 179 186 104 2.3 A
T 13 14 106 16.9 C
R 30 31 104 7.1 A
Subtotal 43 45 105 10.1 B
L 412 401 97 2.4 A
T 23 22 96 2.4 A
Subtotal 435 423 97 2.4 A
Total 657 654 100 2.9 A
Intersection: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 90 92 102 5.7 A
T 178 186 104 1.9 A
Subtotal 268 278 104 3.2 A
T 192 182 95 2.8 A
R 250 249 100 2.0 A
Subtotal 442 431 98 2.3 A
Total 710 709 100 2.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
221442
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 132 140 106 0.8 A
R 50 49 98 0.5 A
Subtotal 182 189 104 0.7 A
L 30 25 84 2.8 A
T 143 139 97 1.0 A
Subtotal 173 164 95 1.3 A
L 136 137 101 6.9 A
T 5 3 60 9.2 A
R 50 52 103 4.7 A
Subtotal 191 192 101 6.3 A
Total 546 545 100 2.9 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 1
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 20 18 90 2.8 A
T 226 223 99 0.6 A
Subtotal 246 241 98 0.8 A
T 187 185 99 0.9 A
R 24 24 100 0.6 A
Subtotal 211 209 99 0.9 A
L 43 44 102 6.6 A
R 30 31 102 3.6 A
Subtotal 73 75 103 5.4 A
Total 530 525 99 1.5 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
222443
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 2
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 25 26 104 2.5 A
T 199 194 98 1.3 A
Subtotal 224 220 98 1.4 A
T 187 183 98 0.8 A
R 31 34 109 0.5 A
Subtotal 218 217 100 0.8 A
L 54 52 96 7.4 A
R 37 40 109 3.7 A
Subtotal 91 92 101 5.8 A
Total 533 529 99 1.9 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 3
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 9 8 86 2.0 A
T 162 157 97 0.4 A
Subtotal 171 165 96 0.5 A
T 218 218 100 0.9 A
R 17 16 96 0.5 A
Subtotal 235 234 100 0.9 A
L 30 32 106 6.3 A
R 21 20 95 4.3 A
Subtotal 51 52 102 5.5 A
Total 457 451 99 1.3 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
223444
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Access 4 & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 2 1 50 5.0 A
R 10 9 88 3.0 A
Subtotal 12 10 83 3.2 A
L 18 18 101 4.4 A
R 7 8 110 2.9 A
Subtotal 25 26 104 3.9 A
L 3 3 100 1.5 A
T 45 47 104 0.4 A
R 1 2 200 0.3 A
Subtotal 49 52 106 0.5 A
L 5 4 76 2.0 A
T 35 31 89 0.3 A
R 7 8 110 0.2 A
Subtotal 47 43 91 0.4 A
Total 134 131 98 1.4 A
Intersection: Access 5 & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 3 3 100 4.7 A
R 13 14 110 2.7 A
Subtotal 16 17 106 3.1 A
L 16 15 95 4.3 A
R 10 11 107 3.1 A
Subtotal 26 26 100 3.8 A
L 6 5 80 1.6 A
T 19 22 116 0.0 A
R 2 2 100 0.0 A
Subtotal 27 29 107 0.3 A
L 5 4 76 1.7 A
T 30 27 90 0.4 A
R 8 9 109 0.2 A
Subtotal 43 40 93 0.5 A
Total 112 112 100 1.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
224445
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 6
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 7 5 69 2.9 A
T 223 220 99 1.0 A
R 38 40 106 0.9 A
Subtotal 268 265 99 1.0 A
L 36 33 92 2.9 A
T 153 155 101 0.6 A
R 9 10 108 0.3 A
Subtotal 198 198 100 1.0 A
L 18 18 101 6.9 A
T 3 4 133 8.2 A
R 12 13 111 2.7 A
Subtotal 33 35 106 5.5 A
L 61 56 92 8.0 A
T 3 4 133 11.9 B
R 60 62 104 4.3 A
Subtotal 124 122 98 6.2 A
Total 622 620 100 2.3 A
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
225446
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 199 199 100 13.6 B
T 5 6 114 14.0 B
R 15 17 111 7.7 A
Subtotal 219 222 101 13.2 B
T 40 39 97 0.6 A
R 30 33 108 0.2 A
Subtotal 70 72 103 0.4 A
L 314 309 98 4.9 A
T 40 44 109 4.0 A
Subtotal 354 353 100 4.8 A
Total 645 647 100 7.2 A
Intersection: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 20 17 86 9.3 A
T 5 5 95 9.8 A
R 126 128 101 0.8 A
Subtotal 151 150 99 2.1 A
L 20 20 101 6.6 A
T 219 217 99 1.5 A
Subtotal 239 237 99 1.9 A
T 334 336 101 8.3 A
R 161 164 102 4.3 A
Subtotal 495 500 101 7.0 A
Total 886 887 100 4.8 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
EB
WB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
226447
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Main Street & 100 South
Type: Signalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 270 270 100 18.9 B
T 323 336 104 6.4 A
Subtotal 593 606 102 12.0 B
T 160 156 97 5.5 A
R 225 230 102 3.1 A
Subtotal 385 386 100 4.1 A
L 215 214 100 16.0 B
T 1 0 0
R 130 129 99 4.9 A
Subtotal 346 343 99 11.8 B
Total 1,324 1,335 101 9.7 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 5 95 2.1 A
T 513 520 101 0.6 A
Subtotal 518 525 101 0.6 A
T 260 262 101 0.5 A
R 20 22 109 0.2 A
Subtotal 280 284 101 0.5 A
L 35 34 98 9.1 A
R 5 6 114 4.2 A
Subtotal 40 40 100 8.4 A
Total 838 849 101 0.9 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
227448
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 301 294 98 0.7 A
R 15 15 98 0.5 A
Subtotal 316 309 98 0.7 A
L 25 23 92 2.9 A
T 186 189 102 0.4 A
Subtotal 211 212 100 0.7 A
L 12 11 92 7.0 A
R 25 23 92 3.6 A
Subtotal 37 34 92 4.7 A
Total 564 555 98 0.9 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 15 15 98 2.1 A
T 184 187 101 0.8 A
Subtotal 199 202 102 0.9 A
T 201 198 98 0.9 A
R 30 31 104 0.5 A
Subtotal 231 229 99 0.8 A
L 39 34 88 6.3 A
T 3 4 133 0.2 A
R 33 34 103 3.3 A
Subtotal 75 72 96 4.5 A
Total 505 503 100 1.4 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
228449
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 4 84 1.9 A
T 126 126 100 0.3 A
Subtotal 131 130 99 0.3 A
T 245 248 101 0.4 A
R 10 10 103 0.2 A
Subtotal 255 258 101 0.4 A
L 20 20 100 5.7 A
R 5 6 126 3.0 A
Subtotal 25 26 104 5.1 A
Total 410 414 101 0.7 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 10 98 4.0 A
R 5 6 120 2.2 A
Subtotal 15 16 107 3.3 A
T 28 27 97 0.3 A
R 5 6 120 0.2 A
Subtotal 33 33 100 0.3 A
L 5 4 80 1.5 A
T 35 38 109 0.0 A
Subtotal 40 42 105 0.1 A
Total 88 91 103 0.8 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
NE
SW
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
229450
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 29 30 104 0.7 A
Subtotal 29 30 103 0.7 A
T 45 47 104 0.6 A
Subtotal 45 47 104 0.6 A
L 5 4 80 5.2 A
R 100 99 99 2.9 A
Subtotal 105 103 98 3.0 A
Total 179 180 101 2.0 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 20 19 96 3.1 A
T 118 117 99 1.1 A
R 18 21 115 0.8 A
Subtotal 156 157 101 1.3 A
L 5 4 80 1.9 A
T 240 237 99 0.6 A
R 5 6 120 0.2 A
Subtotal 250 247 99 0.6 A
L 5 4 80 7.3 A
T 5 5 100 7.5 A
R 60 57 95 1.4 A
Subtotal 70 66 94 2.2 A
L 135 136 101 7.8 A
T 6 5 91 8.6 A
R 5 5 100 5.6 A
Subtotal 146 146 100 7.8 A
Total 622 616 99 2.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
WB
SW
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
EB
230451
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 35 35 100 5.7 A
T 1 1 133 0.5 A
R 143 146 102 1.4 A
Subtotal 179 182 102 2.2 A
T 13 11 83 16.3 C
R 30 33 111 7.8 A
Subtotal 43 44 102 9.9 A
L 412 408 99 2.3 A
T 23 23 100 2.6 A
Subtotal 435 431 99 2.3 A
Total 657 657 100 2.8 A
Intersection: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 90 88 98 5.7 A
T 178 182 102 1.8 A
Subtotal 268 270 101 3.1 A
T 192 189 99 3.0 A
R 250 251 100 2.0 A
Subtotal 442 440 100 2.4 A
Total 710 710 100 2.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
231452
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 132 134 101 0.9 A
R 50 51 101 0.5 A
Subtotal 182 185 102 0.8 A
L 30 28 94 3.0 A
T 143 143 100 1.1 A
Subtotal 173 171 99 1.4 A
L 136 136 100 7.2 A
T 5 6 120 8.0 A
R 50 50 100 5.0 A
Subtotal 191 192 101 6.7 A
Total 546 548 100 3.1 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 1
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 20 19 95 2.8 A
T 226 221 98 0.7 A
Subtotal 246 240 98 0.9 A
T 187 185 99 0.8 A
R 24 25 104 0.5 A
Subtotal 211 210 100 0.8 A
L 43 41 95 6.9 A
R 30 31 102 3.8 A
Subtotal 73 72 99 5.6 A
Total 530 522 98 1.5 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
232453
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 2
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 25 22 88 2.3 A
T 199 198 100 1.2 A
Subtotal 224 220 98 1.3 A
T 187 186 100 0.8 A
R 31 30 96 0.6 A
Subtotal 218 216 99 0.8 A
L 54 51 94 7.7 A
R 37 36 98 4.2 A
Subtotal 91 87 96 6.3 A
Total 533 523 98 1.9 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 3
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 9 10 108 2.0 A
T 162 166 102 0.5 A
Subtotal 171 176 103 0.6 A
T 218 213 98 0.9 A
R 17 16 96 0.6 A
Subtotal 235 229 97 0.9 A
L 30 29 96 6.2 A
R 21 23 110 3.6 A
Subtotal 51 52 102 5.1 A
Total 457 457 100 1.2 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
233454
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Access 4 & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 2 2 100 3.1 A
R 10 9 88 3.0 A
Subtotal 12 11 92 3.0 A
L 18 17 96 4.3 A
R 7 8 110 2.8 A
Subtotal 25 25 100 3.8 A
L 3 3 100 1.9 A
T 45 44 98 0.5 A
R 1 1 100 0.5 A
Subtotal 49 48 98 0.6 A
L 5 5 95 1.6 A
T 35 36 104 0.3 A
R 7 6 83 0.2 A
Subtotal 47 47 100 0.4 A
Total 134 131 98 1.3 A
Intersection: Access 5 & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 3 2 67 3.9 A
R 13 12 94 2.8 A
Subtotal 16 14 88 3.0 A
L 16 12 76 4.5 A
R 10 11 107 2.9 A
Subtotal 26 23 88 3.7 A
L 6 5 80 1.6 A
T 19 21 111 0.1 A
R 2 2 100 0.1 A
Subtotal 27 28 104 0.4 A
L 5 4 76 1.7 A
T 30 32 107 0.5 A
R 8 9 109 0.1 A
Subtotal 43 45 105 0.5 A
Total 112 110 98 1.5 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
234455
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 6
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 7 5 69 2.5 A
T 223 219 98 1.1 A
R 38 36 95 0.8 A
Subtotal 268 260 97 1.1 A
L 36 36 101 3.0 A
T 153 154 101 0.6 A
R 9 10 108 0.4 A
Subtotal 198 200 101 1.0 A
L 18 17 96 6.7 A
T 3 2 67 7.1 A
R 12 13 111 2.9 A
Subtotal 33 32 97 5.2 A
L 61 56 92 8.1 A
T 3 4 133 8.1 A
R 60 58 97 4.5 A
Subtotal 124 118 95 6.3 A
Total 622 610 98 2.3 A
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
235456
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 194 188 97 7.9 A
T 5 4 80 8.0 A
R 25 26 103 4.9 A
Subtotal 224 218 97 7.5 A
T 45 44 97 0.5 A
R 25 26 103 0.1 A
Subtotal 70 70 100 0.4 A
L 174 171 98 3.9 A
T 35 35 99 3.0 A
Subtotal 209 206 99 3.7 A
Total 504 494 98 5.0 A
Intersection: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 9 90 27.5 D
T 5 5 100 54.1 F
R 349 346 99 33.3 D
Subtotal 364 360 99 33.4 D
L 15 13 87 7.6 A
T 224 220 98 6.7 A
Subtotal 239 233 97 6.8 A
T 199 196 98 7.8 A
R 190 202 106 3.7 A
Subtotal 389 398 102 5.7 A
Total 992 991 100 16.1 C
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
EB
WB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
236457
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Main Street & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 219 224 102 9.7 A
T 269 259 96 6.6 A
Subtotal 488 483 99 8.0 A
T 325 320 98 2.4 A
R 170 175 103 1.3 A
Subtotal 495 495 100 2.0 A
L 250 232 93 260.8 F
R 323 319 99 45.8 E
Subtotal 573 551 96 136.3 F
Total 1,556 1,529 98 55.3 F
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 15 13 87 4.8 A
T 417 417 100 0.8 A
Subtotal 432 430 100 0.9 A
T 558 562 101 0.9 A
R 35 34 96 0.3 A
Subtotal 593 596 101 0.9 A
L 20 20 99 13.7 B
R 10 11 113 5.0 A
Subtotal 30 31 103 10.6 B
Total 1,056 1,057 100 1.2 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
237458
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 296 299 101 0.8 A
R 13 13 98 0.7 A
Subtotal 309 312 101 0.8 A
L 15 14 95 2.8 A
T 336 333 99 0.4 A
Subtotal 351 347 99 0.5 A
L 11 11 98 8.6 A
R 15 18 122 4.1 A
Subtotal 26 29 112 5.8 A
Total 686 688 100 0.9 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 38 40 105 2.9 A
T 270 269 100 1.4 A
Subtotal 308 309 100 1.6 A
T 243 242 99 1.6 A
R 59 58 98 0.7 A
Subtotal 302 300 99 1.4 A
L 39 37 95 8.3 A
R 32 32 101 3.2 A
Subtotal 71 69 97 5.9 A
Total 681 678 100 1.9 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
238459
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 10 103 2.0 A
T 290 293 101 0.6 A
Subtotal 300 303 101 0.6 A
T 198 193 97 0.5 A
R 20 21 106 0.2 A
Subtotal 218 214 98 0.5 A
L 10 10 103 6.0 A
R 5 7 133 3.6 A
Subtotal 15 17 113 5.0 A
Total 532 534 100 0.7 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 3 60 4.3 A
R 5 6 120 2.4 A
Subtotal 10 9 90 3.0 A
T 49 47 95 0.6 A
R 10 11 107 0.5 A
Subtotal 59 58 98 0.6 A
L 5 5 100 1.9 A
T 39 38 97 0.1 A
Subtotal 44 43 98 0.3 A
Total 114 110 97 0.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
NE
SW
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
239460
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 50 50 100 0.7 A
Subtotal 50 50 100 0.7 A
T 45 42 94 0.5 A
Subtotal 45 42 93 0.5 A
L 10 10 98 4.6 A
R 80 82 102 2.9 A
Subtotal 90 92 102 3.1 A
Total 185 184 99 1.9 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 40 42 105 3.6 A
T 251 246 98 1.7 A
R 39 40 103 1.1 A
Subtotal 330 328 99 1.9 A
L 5 5 100 2.0 A
T 179 178 99 0.4 A
R 5 6 120 0.2 A
Subtotal 189 189 100 0.4 A
L 5 4 80 6.7 A
T 5 5 100 8.1 A
R 35 37 106 1.3 A
Subtotal 45 46 102 2.5 A
L 104 100 96 9.3 A
T 6 7 122 9.0 A
R 15 16 105 5.5 A
Subtotal 125 123 98 8.8 A
Total 689 686 100 2.8 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
WB
SW
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
EB
240461
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 15 15 98 4.0 A
T 25 25 101 0.3 A
R 300 296 99 0.9 A
Subtotal 340 336 99 1.0 A
T 20 20 101 18.6 C
R 40 41 102 6.9 A
Subtotal 60 61 102 10.7 B
L 314 313 100 1.8 A
T 19 17 88 1.9 A
Subtotal 333 330 99 1.8 A
Total 733 727 99 2.2 A
Intersection: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 65 65 100 4.3 A
T 340 337 99 1.4 A
Subtotal 405 402 99 1.9 A
T 146 145 99 2.2 A
R 208 209 100 1.6 A
Subtotal 354 354 100 1.8 A
Total 759 756 100 1.9 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
241462
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 138 140 101 1.0 A
R 50 52 103 0.5 A
Subtotal 188 192 102 0.9 A
L 20 21 106 3.0 A
T 107 104 97 1.0 A
Subtotal 127 125 98 1.3 A
L 267 262 98 8.9 A
T 5 4 80 10.6 B
R 105 108 103 7.2 A
Subtotal 377 374 99 8.4 A
Total 692 691 100 5.1 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 1
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 39 37 95 3.8 A
T 269 266 99 1.0 A
Subtotal 308 303 98 1.3 A
T 306 300 98 1.3 A
R 54 56 103 1.0 A
Subtotal 360 356 99 1.3 A
L 38 38 101 9.2 A
R 26 27 103 5.2 A
Subtotal 64 65 102 7.5 A
Total 733 724 99 1.9 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
242463
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 2
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 48 48 99 3.3 A
T 261 257 99 1.9 A
Subtotal 309 305 99 2.1 A
T 267 263 98 1.2 A
R 65 63 97 0.9 A
Subtotal 332 326 98 1.1 A
L 49 48 97 9.3 A
R 34 35 104 4.6 A
Subtotal 83 83 100 7.3 A
Total 724 714 99 2.3 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 3
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 24 24 100 2.3 A
T 276 278 101 0.8 A
Subtotal 300 302 101 0.9 A
T 236 233 99 1.6 A
R 38 40 106 0.9 A
Subtotal 274 273 100 1.5 A
L 30 30 99 7.3 A
R 18 17 96 4.0 A
Subtotal 48 47 98 6.1 A
Total 622 622 100 1.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
243464
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Access 4 & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 2 1 50 4.0 A
R 10 10 98 2.9 A
Subtotal 12 11 92 3.0 A
L 19 18 95 4.3 A
R 7 8 110 3.0 A
Subtotal 26 26 100 3.9 A
L 8 7 85 2.1 A
T 27 27 99 0.6 A
R 2 4 200 0.3 A
Subtotal 37 38 103 0.8 A
L 8 6 73 1.9 A
T 62 63 102 0.5 A
R 27 29 106 0.3 A
Subtotal 97 98 101 0.5 A
Total 173 173 100 1.2 A
Intersection: Access 5 & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 4 3 71 4.5 A
R 8 9 109 2.9 A
Subtotal 12 12 100 3.3 A
L 19 17 89 4.2 A
R 8 9 109 3.0 A
Subtotal 27 26 96 3.8 A
L 14 11 80 1.7 A
T 10 12 117 0.0 A
R 4 5 118 0.1 A
Subtotal 28 28 100 0.7 A
L 11 9 84 1.5 A
T 9 11 119 0.6 A
R 26 28 107 0.3 A
Subtotal 46 48 104 0.6 A
Total 114 114 100 1.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
244465
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 6
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 15 14 95 3.8 A
T 215 216 100 1.5 A
R 78 74 95 1.0 A
Subtotal 308 304 99 1.5 A
L 76 76 100 4.0 A
T 286 285 100 1.4 A
R 20 17 85 1.0 A
Subtotal 382 378 99 1.9 A
L 14 14 102 9.0 A
T 6 4 64 11.7 B
R 11 12 112 3.8 A
Subtotal 31 30 97 7.3 A
L 73 71 97 13.1 B
T 6 7 112 16.3 C
R 56 55 99 6.7 A
Subtotal 135 133 99 10.6 B
Total 856 845 99 3.4 A
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
245466
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 194 196 101 8.2 A
T 5 6 120 7.2 A
R 25 26 103 5.3 A
Subtotal 224 228 102 7.8 A
T 45 40 88 0.5 A
R 25 28 111 0.2 A
Subtotal 70 68 97 0.4 A
L 174 170 98 4.1 A
T 35 34 96 3.2 A
Subtotal 209 204 98 4.0 A
Total 504 500 99 5.3 A
Intersection: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 9 90 7.7 A
T 5 4 80 11.0 B
R 349 346 99 1.4 A
Subtotal 364 359 99 1.7 A
L 15 14 93 5.2 A
T 224 222 99 1.3 A
Subtotal 239 236 99 1.5 A
T 199 194 97 8.5 A
R 190 189 99 4.2 A
Subtotal 389 383 98 6.4 A
Total 992 978 99 3.5 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
EB
WB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
246467
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Main Street & 100 South
Type: Signalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 219 213 97 18.1 B
T 269 270 100 5.3 A
Subtotal 488 483 99 10.9 B
T 325 328 101 7.0 A
R 170 168 99 3.0 A
Subtotal 495 496 100 5.6 A
L 250 246 98 18.3 B
R 323 323 100 10.1 B
Subtotal 573 569 99 13.6 B
Total 1,556 1,548 99 10.3 B
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 15 14 93 4.4 A
T 417 437 105 0.9 A
Subtotal 432 451 104 1.0 A
T 558 564 101 1.0 A
R 35 38 108 0.4 A
Subtotal 593 602 102 1.0 A
L 20 19 94 13.1 B
R 10 12 123 5.2 A
Subtotal 30 31 103 10.0 A
Total 1,056 1,084 103 1.2 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
247468
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 296 299 101 0.8 A
R 13 16 121 0.6 A
Subtotal 309 315 102 0.8 A
L 15 15 102 3.0 A
T 336 337 100 0.5 A
Subtotal 351 352 100 0.6 A
L 11 8 71 9.0 A
R 15 16 108 4.1 A
Subtotal 26 24 92 5.7 A
Total 686 691 101 0.9 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 38 33 87 3.2 A
T 270 268 99 1.5 A
Subtotal 308 301 98 1.7 A
T 243 251 103 1.6 A
R 59 60 101 0.7 A
Subtotal 302 311 103 1.4 A
L 39 38 97 8.3 A
R 32 32 101 3.7 A
Subtotal 71 70 99 6.2 A
Total 681 682 100 2.0 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
248469
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 10 103 2.0 A
T 290 282 97 0.6 A
Subtotal 300 292 97 0.6 A
T 198 201 101 0.5 A
R 20 20 101 0.2 A
Subtotal 218 221 101 0.5 A
L 10 7 72 7.6 A
R 5 6 114 2.9 A
Subtotal 15 13 87 5.4 A
Total 532 526 99 0.7 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 4 80 4.4 A
R 5 6 120 2.6 A
Subtotal 10 10 100 3.3 A
T 49 48 97 0.4 A
R 10 11 107 0.5 A
Subtotal 59 59 100 0.4 A
L 5 3 60 2.3 A
T 39 40 103 0.1 A
Subtotal 44 43 98 0.3 A
Total 114 112 99 0.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
NE
SW
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
249470
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 50 52 103 0.7 A
Subtotal 50 52 104 0.7 A
T 45 45 101 0.6 A
Subtotal 45 45 100 0.6 A
L 10 10 98 4.4 A
R 80 76 95 2.9 A
Subtotal 90 86 96 3.1 A
Total 185 183 99 1.8 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 40 40 100 3.4 A
T 251 257 102 1.8 A
R 39 41 105 1.2 A
Subtotal 330 338 102 1.9 A
L 5 4 80 3.3 A
T 179 181 101 0.5 A
R 5 5 100 0.2 A
Subtotal 189 190 101 0.6 A
L 5 4 80 7.5 A
T 5 6 120 7.3 A
R 35 38 109 1.3 A
Subtotal 45 48 107 2.6 A
L 104 99 95 9.7 A
T 6 5 87 9.6 A
R 15 16 105 4.9 A
Subtotal 125 120 96 9.1 A
Total 689 696 101 2.8 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
WB
SW
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
EB
250471
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 15 14 92 4.7 A
T 25 24 97 0.4 A
R 300 306 102 1.0 A
Subtotal 340 344 101 1.1 A
T 20 19 96 15.5 C
R 40 40 100 6.9 A
Subtotal 60 59 98 9.7 A
L 314 312 99 1.9 A
T 19 22 114 1.9 A
Subtotal 333 334 100 1.9 A
Total 733 737 101 2.1 A
Intersection: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 65 69 107 4.6 A
T 340 345 101 1.5 A
Subtotal 405 414 102 2.0 A
T 146 150 103 2.1 A
R 208 202 97 1.5 A
Subtotal 354 352 99 1.8 A
Total 759 766 101 1.9 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
251472
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 138 142 103 1.0 A
R 50 52 103 0.4 A
Subtotal 188 194 103 0.8 A
L 20 18 91 2.9 A
T 107 110 103 0.9 A
Subtotal 127 128 101 1.2 A
L 267 273 102 10.2 B
T 5 5 100 13.1 B
R 105 104 99 7.6 A
Subtotal 377 382 101 9.5 A
Total 692 704 102 5.6 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 1
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 39 38 98 3.8 A
T 269 261 97 1.0 A
Subtotal 308 299 97 1.4 A
T 306 314 102 1.4 A
R 54 52 96 1.1 A
Subtotal 360 366 102 1.4 A
L 38 37 98 9.3 A
R 26 27 103 4.8 A
Subtotal 64 64 100 7.4 A
Total 733 729 99 1.9 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
252473
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 2
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 48 49 102 3.8 A
T 261 258 99 2.2 A
Subtotal 309 307 99 2.5 A
T 267 274 103 1.5 A
R 65 66 102 0.9 A
Subtotal 332 340 102 1.4 A
L 49 44 89 11.2 B
R 34 36 107 5.1 A
Subtotal 83 80 96 8.5 A
Total 724 727 100 2.6 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 3
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 24 22 92 2.1 A
T 276 271 98 0.8 A
Subtotal 300 293 98 0.9 A
T 236 242 102 1.6 A
R 38 39 103 1.0 A
Subtotal 274 281 103 1.5 A
L 30 28 93 7.1 A
R 18 19 107 4.0 A
Subtotal 48 47 98 5.8 A
Total 622 621 100 1.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
253474
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Access 4 & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 2 2 100 3.5 A
R 10 10 98 2.8 A
Subtotal 12 12 100 2.9 A
L 19 18 95 4.3 A
R 7 10 138 2.7 A
Subtotal 26 28 108 3.7 A
L 8 8 97 2.1 A
T 27 28 103 0.6 A
R 2 3 150 0.4 A
Subtotal 37 39 105 0.9 A
L 8 6 73 2.0 A
T 62 58 94 0.5 A
R 27 27 99 0.3 A
Subtotal 97 91 94 0.5 A
Total 173 170 98 1.3 A
Intersection: Access 5 & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 4 4 94 3.9 A
R 8 10 121 3.1 A
Subtotal 12 14 117 3.3 A
L 19 17 89 4.3 A
R 8 9 109 2.8 A
Subtotal 27 26 96 3.8 A
L 14 13 95 1.5 A
T 10 11 107 0.1 A
R 4 4 94 0.0 A
Subtotal 28 28 100 0.7 A
L 11 9 84 1.6 A
T 9 10 108 0.6 A
R 26 28 107 0.3 A
Subtotal 46 47 102 0.6 A
Total 114 115 101 1.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
254475
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 6
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 15 14 95 3.8 A
T 215 212 98 1.5 A
R 78 72 93 1.0 A
Subtotal 308 298 97 1.5 A
L 76 74 97 3.8 A
T 286 287 100 1.5 A
R 20 22 110 0.8 A
Subtotal 382 383 100 1.9 A
L 14 15 109 10.9 B
T 6 6 96 14.3 B
R 11 12 112 4.8 A
Subtotal 31 33 106 9.3 A
L 73 76 104 12.2 B
T 6 8 123 12.8 B
R 56 63 113 6.2 A
Subtotal 135 147 109 9.7 A
Total 856 861 101 3.4 A
Intersection: Access 6 & Access 7
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
R 58 62 107 3.1 A
Subtotal 58 62 107 3.1 A
L 58 56 97 2.3 A
T 103 98 95 0.9 A
Subtotal 161 154 96 1.4 A
T 78 84 108 0.3 A
Subtotal 78 84 108 0.3 A
Total 296 300 101 1.5 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
EB
WB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
255476
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 242 238 98 23.5 C
T 5 4 84 33.3 D
R 20 20 101 21.7 C
Subtotal 267 262 98 23.5 C
T 50 48 96 0.8 A
R 35 34 98 0.2 A
Subtotal 85 82 96 0.6 A
L 425 396 93 5.5 A
T 45 44 98 5.2 A
Subtotal 470 440 94 5.5 A
Total 821 784 95 11.0 B
Intersection: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 20 20 101 11.8 B
T 5 6 126 14.0 B
R 180 191 106 1.0 A
Subtotal 205 217 106 2.4 A
L 25 20 79 7.9 A
T 268 268 100 1.7 A
Subtotal 293 288 98 2.1 A
T 450 422 94 10.3 B
R 211 203 96 4.8 A
Subtotal 661 625 95 8.5 A
Total 1,158 1,130 98 5.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
EB
WB
256477
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Main Street & 100 South
Type: Signalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 396 371 94 55.3 E
T 517 481 93 18.8 B
Subtotal 913 852 93 34.7 C
T 265 260 98 7.2 A
R 265 254 96 3.5 A
Subtotal 530 514 97 5.4 A
L 245 242 99 24.1 C
T 1 1 100 0.5 A
R 202 216 107 8.0 A
Subtotal 448 459 102 16.5 B
Total 1,891 1,825 96 22.0 C
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 4 76 5.2 A
T 834 833 100 2.1 A
Subtotal 839 837 100 2.1 A
T 427 436 102 0.6 A
R 20 19 94 0.2 A
Subtotal 447 455 102 0.6 A
L 40 37 92 18.3 C
R 5 7 133 4.5 A
Subtotal 45 44 98 16.1 C
Total 1,332 1,336 100 2.0 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
257478
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 550 558 102 1.1 A
R 16 17 105 0.9 A
Subtotal 566 575 102 1.1 A
L 30 32 106 9.2 A
T 399 402 101 5.1 A
Subtotal 429 434 101 5.4 A
L 18 17 93 14.6 B
R 30 35 116 6.8 A
Subtotal 48 52 108 9.4 A
Total 1,044 1,061 102 3.3 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 17 15 90 3.2 A
T 326 330 101 0.7 A
Subtotal 343 345 101 0.8 A
T 366 364 99 0.8 A
R 39 39 101 0.5 A
Subtotal 405 403 100 0.8 A
L 50 54 109 11.4 B
T 3 4 133 0.1 A
R 35 33 94 5.5 A
Subtotal 88 91 103 8.8 A
Total 836 839 100 1.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
258479
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 4 84 3.0 A
T 214 220 103 0.5 A
Subtotal 219 224 102 0.5 A
T 401 391 98 0.6 A
R 15 17 111 0.3 A
Subtotal 416 408 98 0.6 A
L 20 20 100 7.4 A
R 5 5 105 5.5 A
Subtotal 25 25 100 7.0 A
Total 660 657 100 0.9 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 8 78 3.8 A
R 5 6 120 2.4 A
Subtotal 15 14 93 3.2 A
T 35 34 97 0.4 A
R 5 6 120 0.2 A
Subtotal 40 40 100 0.4 A
L 5 4 80 1.9 A
T 53 56 105 0.1 A
Subtotal 58 60 103 0.2 A
Total 114 114 100 0.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
NE
SW
259480
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 36 36 100 0.7 A
Subtotal 36 36 100 0.7 A
T 64 64 101 0.7 A
Subtotal 64 64 100 0.7 A
L 5 4 80 4.8 A
R 120 128 107 3.4 A
Subtotal 125 132 106 3.4 A
Total 224 232 103 2.3 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 25 24 97 4.1 A
T 199 194 97 2.0 A
R 25 27 109 1.2 A
Subtotal 249 245 98 2.1 A
L 5 4 80 2.1 A
T 388 389 100 0.8 A
R 5 7 140 0.4 A
Subtotal 398 400 101 0.8 A
L 5 6 120 11.8 B
T 5 5 100 12.5 B
R 70 72 103 2.0 A
Subtotal 80 83 104 3.3 A
L 168 174 103 14.7 B
T 5 6 120 13.8 B
R 10 12 117 8.0 A
Subtotal 183 192 105 14.3 B
Total 910 920 101 4.2 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
EB
WB
SW
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
260481
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 40 41 102 12.4 B
R 228 224 98 3.8 A
Subtotal 268 265 99 5.1 A
T 21 20 96 44.2 E
R 35 37 106 17.0 C
Subtotal 56 57 102 26.5 D
L 587 594 101 3.3 A
T 39 42 107 2.8 A
Subtotal 626 636 102 3.3 A
Total 950 958 101 5.1 A
Intersection: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 105 104 99 9.5 A
T 268 268 100 3.8 A
Subtotal 373 372 100 5.4 A
T 246 247 100 4.3 A
R 375 383 102 3.1 A
Subtotal 621 630 101 3.6 A
Total 995 1,002 101 4.2 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
261482
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 165 171 104 1.1 A
R 60 58 97 0.4 A
Subtotal 225 229 102 0.9 A
L 35 33 94 3.5 A
T 188 190 101 1.4 A
Subtotal 223 223 100 1.7 A
L 208 201 97 9.6 A
T 5 4 80 12.7 B
R 60 59 99 7.0 A
Subtotal 273 264 97 9.1 A
Total 720 716 99 4.2 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 1
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 20 19 95 4.3 A
T 388 394 102 0.7 A
Subtotal 408 413 101 0.9 A
T 353 358 101 1.2 A
R 44 42 95 1.1 A
Subtotal 397 400 101 1.2 A
L 43 40 93 12.9 B
R 30 32 106 5.2 A
Subtotal 73 72 99 9.5 A
Total 878 885 101 1.8 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
262483
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 2
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 25 24 96 3.2 A
T 340 346 102 1.4 A
R 12 14 119 0.4 A
Subtotal 377 384 102 1.5 A
L 13 11 86 3.6 A
T 336 341 101 1.1 A
R 35 38 109 0.8 A
Subtotal 384 390 102 1.1 A
L 54 56 103 11.5 B
R 37 34 93 6.1 A
Subtotal 91 90 99 9.5 A
L 19 16 84 11.9 B
R 26 27 103 5.7 A
Subtotal 45 43 96 8.0 A
Total 897 907 101 2.4 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 3
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 17 17 101 2.3 A
T 252 253 100 0.6 A
Subtotal 269 270 100 0.7 A
T 358 359 100 0.9 A
R 26 24 91 0.3 A
Subtotal 384 383 100 0.9 A
L 40 43 108 8.1 A
R 29 28 96 4.9 A
Subtotal 69 71 103 6.8 A
Total 722 724 100 1.4 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
263484
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Access 4 & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 3 2 67 5.3 A
R 15 17 115 2.9 A
Subtotal 18 19 106 3.2 A
L 18 17 96 4.3 A
R 8 9 109 3.1 A
Subtotal 26 26 100 3.9 A
L 3 4 133 1.5 A
T 53 55 103 0.4 A
R 1 1 100 0.4 A
Subtotal 57 60 105 0.5 A
L 5 4 76 1.9 A
T 43 44 102 0.4 A
R 10 10 98 0.4 A
Subtotal 58 58 100 0.5 A
Total 160 163 102 1.3 A
Intersection: Access 5 & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 4 3 71 4.5 A
R 13 15 118 2.8 A
Subtotal 17 18 106 3.1 A
L 16 14 89 4.2 A
R 8 9 109 3.0 A
Subtotal 24 23 96 3.7 A
L 6 5 80 1.6 A
T 27 30 110 0.1 A
R 3 3 100 0.0 A
Subtotal 36 38 106 0.3 A
L 5 4 76 1.6 A
T 36 40 110 0.5 A
R 11 10 93 0.3 A
Subtotal 52 54 104 0.5 A
Total 130 133 102 1.4 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
264485
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 6
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 34 31 93 3.6 A
T 342 349 102 1.3 A
R 55 55 100 1.0 A
Subtotal 431 435 101 1.4 A
L 57 54 95 4.6 A
T 242 248 102 1.3 A
R 81 80 99 1.2 A
Subtotal 380 382 101 1.7 A
L 102 99 97 17.0 C
T 5 5 95 21.0 C
R 50 52 103 10.5 B
Subtotal 157 156 99 15.0 B
L 126 124 99 23.0 C
T 13 13 102 23.9 C
R 106 108 102 17.5 C
Subtotal 245 245 100 20.6 C
Total 1,211 1,218 101 7.1 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 7
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 277 280 101 0.8 A
R 16 17 108 0.3 A
Subtotal 293 297 101 0.8 A
L 27 24 88 2.4 A
T 374 374 100 0.7 A
Subtotal 401 398 99 0.8 A
L 23 23 100 8.3 A
R 55 54 99 4.4 A
Subtotal 78 77 99 5.6 A
Total 772 772 100 1.2 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
WB
265486
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Spring Canyon Road & Access 8
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 1 0 0
R 4 4 94 2.0 A
Subtotal 5 4 80 2.0 A
T 46 49 105 0.4 A
Subtotal 46 49 107 0.4 A
T 34 38 113 0.1 A
Subtotal 34 38 112 0.1 A
Total 86 91 106 0.4 A
Intersection: Spring Canyon Road & Access 9
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 1 0 0
R 2 4 200 2.8 A
Subtotal 3 4 133 2.8 A
T 41 42 103 0.1 A
Subtotal 41 42 102 0.1 A
Total 44 46 105 0.3 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
EB
266487
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 10
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 739 742 100 5.5 A
R 13 12 94 6.0 A
Subtotal 752 754 100 5.5 A
L 32 32 99 7.6 A
T 409 420 103 1.2 A
Subtotal 441 452 102 1.7 A
L 29 27 92 19.6 C
R 84 82 98 12.3 B
Subtotal 113 109 96 14.1 B
Total 1,306 1,315 101 4.9 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
267488
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South
Type: Signalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 242 236 98 12.1 B
T 5 5 105 10.9 B
R 20 22 111 3.2 A
Subtotal 267 263 99 11.3 B
T 50 51 103 4.5 A
R 35 39 112 1.8 A
Subtotal 85 90 106 3.3 A
L 425 414 97 15.0 B
T 45 45 100 6.8 A
Subtotal 470 459 98 14.2 B
Total 821 812 99 12.1 B
Intersection: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 20 18 91 12.9 B
T 5 4 84 15.3 C
R 180 182 101 0.9 A
Subtotal 205 204 100 2.2 A
L 25 25 99 8.1 A
T 268 262 98 2.3 A
Subtotal 293 287 98 2.8 A
T 450 442 98 11.0 B
R 211 217 103 5.3 A
Subtotal 661 659 100 9.1 A
Total 1,158 1,150 99 6.4 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
EB
WB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
268489
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Main Street & 100 South
Type: Signalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 396 390 98 22.4 C
T 517 516 100 10.3 B
Subtotal 913 906 99 15.5 B
T 265 267 101 22.8 C
R 265 268 101 11.2 B
Subtotal 530 535 101 17.0 B
L 245 241 98 29.7 C
T 1 2 200 1.2 A
R 202 202 100 6.1 A
Subtotal 448 445 99 18.9 B
Total 1,891 1,886 100 16.8 B
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 5 95 4.2 A
T 834 848 102 1.9 A
Subtotal 839 853 102 1.9 A
T 427 430 101 0.3 A
R 20 18 89 0.1 A
Subtotal 447 448 100 0.3 A
L 40 40 100 23.6 C
R 5 5 95 4.3 A
Subtotal 45 45 100 21.5 C
Total 1,332 1,346 101 2.0 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
269490
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 550 552 100 1.6 A
R 16 19 117 1.2 A
Subtotal 566 571 101 1.6 A
L 30 29 96 9.8 A
T 399 402 101 5.0 A
Subtotal 429 431 100 5.3 A
L 18 19 104 12.8 B
R 30 31 102 6.1 A
Subtotal 48 50 104 8.6 A
Total 1,044 1,052 101 3.5 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 17 16 96 2.9 A
T 326 334 103 0.7 A
Subtotal 343 350 102 0.8 A
T 366 368 100 0.9 A
R 39 36 93 0.5 A
Subtotal 405 404 100 0.9 A
L 50 51 103 11.0 B
T 3 4 133 0.3 A
R 35 36 102 5.8 A
Subtotal 88 91 103 8.5 A
Total 836 845 101 1.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
270491
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 5 105 3.5 A
T 214 214 100 0.6 A
Subtotal 219 219 100 0.7 A
T 401 400 100 0.7 A
R 15 18 118 0.3 A
Subtotal 416 418 100 0.7 A
L 20 18 90 7.8 A
R 5 5 105 4.3 A
Subtotal 25 23 92 7.0 A
Total 660 660 100 0.9 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 8 78 4.1 A
R 5 5 100 2.1 A
Subtotal 15 13 87 3.3 A
T 35 32 91 0.5 A
R 5 6 120 0.5 A
Subtotal 40 38 95 0.5 A
L 5 4 80 1.5 A
T 53 53 100 0.1 A
Subtotal 58 57 98 0.2 A
Total 114 108 95 0.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
NE
SW
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
271492
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 36 34 94 0.8 A
Subtotal 36 34 94 0.8 A
T 64 61 96 0.7 A
Subtotal 64 61 95 0.7 A
L 5 5 100 5.2 A
R 120 116 97 3.2 A
Subtotal 125 121 97 3.3 A
Total 224 216 96 2.1 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 25 26 105 4.3 A
T 199 199 100 1.3 A
R 25 23 93 1.0 A
Subtotal 249 248 100 1.6 A
L 5 5 100 2.6 A
T 388 389 100 0.8 A
R 5 6 120 0.2 A
Subtotal 398 400 101 0.8 A
L 5 4 80 12.9 B
T 5 5 100 14.2 B
R 70 67 96 1.9 A
Subtotal 80 76 95 3.3 A
L 168 158 94 14.0 B
T 5 6 120 13.4 B
R 10 13 127 7.9 A
Subtotal 183 177 97 13.5 B
Total 910 901 99 3.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
WB
SW
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
EB
272493
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway
Type: All-way Stop Controlled
Avg % Avg LOS
L 40 40 100 7.5 A
R 228 228 100 5.4 A
Subtotal 268 268 100 5.7 A
T 21 20 96 6.5 A
R 35 38 109 4.0 A
Subtotal 56 58 104 4.9 A
L 587 570 97 12.8 B
T 39 43 110 13.2 B
Subtotal 626 613 98 12.8 B
Total 950 939 99 10.3 B
Intersection: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 105 105 100 9.6 A
T 268 269 100 4.1 A
Subtotal 373 374 100 5.6 A
T 246 241 98 3.4 A
R 375 367 98 2.3 A
Subtotal 621 608 98 2.7 A
Total 995 982 99 3.9 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
273494
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 165 165 100 1.1 A
R 60 61 102 0.5 A
Subtotal 225 226 100 0.9 A
L 35 31 89 3.3 A
T 188 184 98 1.1 A
Subtotal 223 215 96 1.4 A
L 208 209 100 9.3 A
T 5 5 100 10.3 B
R 60 62 104 3.7 A
Subtotal 273 276 101 8.1 A
Total 720 717 100 3.8 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 1
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 20 22 110 4.0 A
T 388 395 102 0.7 A
Subtotal 408 417 102 0.9 A
T 353 347 98 1.7 A
R 44 52 118 1.5 A
Subtotal 397 399 101 1.7 A
L 43 42 98 11.9 B
R 30 34 112 5.8 A
Subtotal 73 76 104 9.2 A
Total 878 892 102 2.0 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
274495
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 2
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 25 24 96 3.5 A
T 340 349 103 1.4 A
R 12 13 111 0.3 A
Subtotal 377 386 102 1.5 A
L 13 13 102 4.4 A
T 336 332 99 1.1 A
R 35 37 106 0.8 A
Subtotal 384 382 99 1.2 A
L 54 54 100 14.1 B
R 37 38 103 4.4 A
Subtotal 91 92 101 10.1 A
L 19 19 100 10.9 B
R 26 27 103 5.6 A
Subtotal 45 46 102 7.8 A
Total 897 906 101 2.5 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 3
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 17 14 84 2.3 A
T 252 257 102 0.5 A
Subtotal 269 271 101 0.6 A
T 358 361 101 1.0 A
R 26 28 107 0.3 A
Subtotal 384 389 101 0.9 A
L 40 39 98 8.6 A
R 29 35 120 4.7 A
Subtotal 69 74 107 6.8 A
Total 722 734 102 1.4 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
275496
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Access 4 & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 3 2 67 5.5 A
R 15 16 108 3.0 A
Subtotal 18 18 100 3.3 A
L 18 18 101 4.5 A
R 8 9 109 2.9 A
Subtotal 26 27 104 4.0 A
L 3 3 100 1.9 A
T 53 56 105 0.5 A
R 1 2 200 0.3 A
Subtotal 57 61 107 0.6 A
L 5 4 76 1.8 A
T 43 41 95 0.4 A
R 10 10 98 0.2 A
Subtotal 58 55 95 0.5 A
Total 160 161 101 1.4 A
Intersection: Access 5 & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 4 4 94 3.6 A
R 13 13 102 2.9 A
Subtotal 17 17 100 3.1 A
L 16 17 108 4.0 A
R 8 7 85 2.9 A
Subtotal 24 24 100 3.7 A
L 6 5 80 1.6 A
T 27 30 110 0.1 A
R 3 3 100 0.0 A
Subtotal 36 38 106 0.3 A
L 5 4 76 1.7 A
T 36 36 99 0.5 A
R 11 11 102 0.2 A
Subtotal 52 51 98 0.5 A
Total 130 130 100 1.4 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
276497
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 6
Type: Signalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 34 30 90 11.3 B
T 342 346 101 7.1 A
R 55 58 106 2.8 A
Subtotal 431 434 101 6.8 A
L 57 58 102 13.0 B
T 242 241 100 5.7 A
R 81 80 99 3.1 A
Subtotal 380 379 100 6.3 A
L 102 103 101 12.6 B
T 5 6 114 7.5 A
R 50 51 101 3.6 A
Subtotal 157 160 102 9.5 A
L 126 130 103 12.4 B
T 13 12 94 9.2 A
R 106 106 100 5.7 A
Subtotal 245 248 101 9.4 A
Total 1,211 1,221 101 7.5 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 7
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 277 283 102 0.7 A
R 16 15 95 0.2 A
Subtotal 293 298 102 0.7 A
L 27 26 95 2.7 A
T 374 378 101 0.7 A
Subtotal 401 404 101 0.8 A
L 23 24 104 9.2 A
R 55 57 104 5.0 A
Subtotal 78 81 104 6.2 A
Total 772 783 101 1.3 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
WB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
277498
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Spring Canyon Road & Access 8
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 1 0 0
R 4 5 118 1.8 A
Subtotal 5 5 100 1.8 A
T 46 48 103 0.4 A
Subtotal 46 48 104 0.4 A
T 34 34 101 0.1 A
Subtotal 34 34 100 0.1 A
Total 86 87 102 0.4 A
Intersection: Spring Canyon Road & Access 9
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 1 0 0
R 2 2 100 3.1 A
Subtotal 3 2 67 3.1 A
T 41 40 98 0.1 A
Subtotal 41 40 98 0.1 A
Total 44 42 96 0.2 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
EB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
278499
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 10
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 739 745 101 5.6 A
R 13 13 102 4.5 A
Subtotal 752 758 101 5.6 A
L 32 27 84 7.4 A
T 409 416 102 1.1 A
Subtotal 441 443 100 1.5 A
L 29 28 96 17.8 C
R 84 86 103 11.5 B
Subtotal 113 114 101 13.0 B
Total 1,306 1,315 101 4.9 A
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
279500
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 262 275 105 13.3 B
T 5 4 80 14.3 B
R 25 28 111 10.0 A
Subtotal 292 307 105 13.0 B
T 55 56 102 0.6 A
R 30 29 96 0.1 A
Subtotal 85 85 100 0.4 A
L 264 244 93 4.8 A
T 41 37 90 4.1 A
Subtotal 305 281 92 4.7 A
Total 682 673 99 8.0 A
Intersection: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 15 14 93 10.7 B
T 5 5 100 11.7 B
R 470 475 101 2.2 A
Subtotal 490 494 101 2.5 A
L 20 19 94 5.6 A
T 297 313 105 1.5 A
Subtotal 317 332 105 1.7 A
T 290 268 92 9.9 A
R 248 225 91 4.6 A
Subtotal 538 493 92 7.5 A
Total 1,346 1,319 98 4.2 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
EB
WB
280501
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Main Street & 100 South
Type: Signalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 337 298 88 118.3 F
T 437 401 92 35.7 D
Subtotal 774 699 90 70.9 E
T 546 534 98 9.2 A
R 200 195 98 3.4 A
Subtotal 746 729 98 7.6 A
L 285 290 102 40.9 D
T 0 0 0
R 482 489 101 74.0 E
Subtotal 767 779 102 61.7 E
Total 2,287 2,207 97 47.3 D
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 32 30 94 13.5 B
T 682 678 99 5.5 A
Subtotal 714 708 99 5.8 A
T 923 926 100 1.7 A
R 40 39 98 0.8 A
Subtotal 963 965 100 1.7 A
L 20 20 99 61.6 F
R 34 35 103 30.3 D
Subtotal 54 55 102 41.7 E
Total 1,730 1,728 100 4.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
281502
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 523 516 99 1.4 A
R 50 49 98 1.0 A
Subtotal 573 565 99 1.4 A
L 27 28 104 10.5 B
T 866 860 99 5.3 A
Subtotal 893 888 99 5.5 A
L 17 16 94 26.4 D
R 41 40 98 9.5 A
Subtotal 58 56 97 14.3 B
Total 1,524 1,509 99 4.3 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 40 37 92 4.5 A
T 462 454 98 1.3 A
Subtotal 502 491 98 1.5 A
T 428 425 99 1.0 A
R 70 72 103 0.7 A
Subtotal 498 497 100 1.0 A
L 50 49 98 14.0 B
T 2 2 133 0.5 A
R 39 41 105 6.2 A
Subtotal 91 92 101 10.2 B
Total 1,090 1,080 99 2.1 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
282503
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 10 103 2.9 A
T 476 460 97 0.9 A
Subtotal 486 470 97 0.9 A
T 374 372 99 1.0 A
R 20 21 106 0.3 A
Subtotal 394 393 100 1.0 A
L 10 8 82 8.2 A
R 5 5 95 4.3 A
Subtotal 15 13 87 6.7 A
Total 895 876 98 1.0 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 3 60 5.1 A
R 5 6 120 2.3 A
Subtotal 10 9 90 3.2 A
T 65 64 99 0.6 A
R 10 10 98 0.5 A
Subtotal 75 74 99 0.6 A
L 5 4 80 1.9 A
T 54 55 101 0.1 A
Subtotal 59 59 100 0.2 A
Total 144 142 98 0.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
NE
SW
283504
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 66 66 100 0.6 A
Subtotal 66 66 100 0.6 A
T 60 59 99 0.6 A
Subtotal 60 59 98 0.6 A
L 10 10 98 4.7 A
R 95 91 96 3.0 A
Subtotal 105 101 96 3.2 A
Total 231 226 98 1.8 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 45 42 93 4.3 A
T 421 415 99 2.5 A
R 55 56 101 1.8 A
Subtotal 521 513 98 2.6 A
L 5 4 80 4.0 A
T 300 294 98 0.7 A
R 5 6 120 0.3 A
Subtotal 310 304 98 0.7 A
L 5 5 100 10.0 A
T 5 6 120 17.0 C
R 40 41 102 1.4 A
Subtotal 50 52 104 4.0 A
L 129 126 97 19.3 C
T 6 7 108 15.8 C
R 20 19 96 10.8 B
Subtotal 155 152 98 18.1 C
Total 1,036 1,021 99 4.4 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
EB
WB
SW
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
284505
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 20 17 86 7.5 A
T 25 26 103 0.5 A
R 477 470 99 1.7 A
Subtotal 522 513 98 1.8 A
T 34 33 97 47.6 E
R 45 45 100 28.1 D
Subtotal 79 78 99 36.4 E
L 457 448 98 2.1 A
T 27 26 97 2.0 A
Subtotal 484 474 98 2.1 A
Total 1,085 1,065 98 4.6 A
Intersection: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 75 73 97 7.2 A
T 523 515 98 2.5 A
Subtotal 598 588 98 3.1 A
T 182 182 100 3.5 A
R 320 311 97 2.4 A
Subtotal 502 493 98 2.8 A
Total 1,100 1,081 98 2.9 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
285506
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 182 174 96 1.2 A
R 60 63 105 0.6 A
Subtotal 242 237 98 1.0 A
L 25 22 89 3.5 A
T 142 147 103 1.3 A
Subtotal 167 169 101 1.6 A
L 415 413 99 24.6 C
T 5 5 100 21.7 C
R 125 126 101 21.7 C
Subtotal 545 544 100 23.9 C
Total 954 950 100 14.3 B
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 1
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 45 45 100 6.1 A
T 478 467 98 1.0 A
Subtotal 523 512 98 1.4 A
T 540 535 99 1.6 A
R 65 66 102 1.4 A
Subtotal 605 601 99 1.6 A
L 45 44 98 20.5 C
R 30 32 106 9.8 A
Subtotal 75 76 101 16.0 C
Total 1,203 1,189 99 2.4 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
286507
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 2
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 50 48 96 4.7 A
T 436 427 98 2.0 A
R 26 28 107 0.5 A
Subtotal 512 503 98 2.2 A
L 45 42 93 5.1 A
T 450 448 100 1.5 A
R 75 75 100 1.3 A
Subtotal 570 565 99 1.7 A
L 55 52 95 34.2 D
T 15 14 95 24.0 C
R 35 35 101 20.2 C
Subtotal 105 101 96 27.9 D
L 11 9 84 27.9 D
T 15 15 102 26.1 D
R 35 37 106 13.5 B
Subtotal 61 61 100 18.7 C
Total 1,247 1,230 99 5.0 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 3
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 30 25 83 6.2 A
T 472 456 97 3.2 A
Subtotal 502 481 96 3.4 A
T 369 370 100 1.2 A
R 48 49 102 0.5 A
Subtotal 417 419 100 1.1 A
L 35 34 98 9.8 A
R 25 25 100 5.1 A
Subtotal 60 59 98 7.8 A
Total 979 959 98 2.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
287508
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Access 4 & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 4 76 4.3 A
R 12 12 102 3.2 A
Subtotal 17 16 94 3.5 A
L 23 25 109 4.8 A
R 10 13 127 3.4 A
Subtotal 33 38 115 4.3 A
L 9 8 86 1.9 A
T 55 54 99 0.6 A
R 4 4 94 0.4 A
Subtotal 68 66 97 0.7 A
L 10 9 88 2.1 A
T 71 70 99 0.7 A
R 30 30 99 0.4 A
Subtotal 111 109 98 0.7 A
Total 230 229 100 1.5 A
Intersection: Access 5 & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 4 76 4.9 A
R 12 14 119 3.1 A
Subtotal 17 18 106 3.5 A
L 20 18 90 4.5 A
R 10 13 127 3.0 A
Subtotal 30 31 103 3.9 A
L 16 13 83 1.7 A
T 35 33 95 0.1 A
R 5 6 114 0.1 A
Subtotal 56 52 93 0.5 A
L 18 17 96 1.8 A
T 34 35 101 0.9 A
R 34 34 101 0.4 A
Subtotal 86 86 100 0.9 A
Total 189 187 99 1.5 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
288509
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 6
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 45 42 93 6.5 A
T 414 407 98 1.5 A
R 65 61 94 1.2 A
Subtotal 524 510 97 1.9 A
L 100 93 93 5.2 A
T 510 509 100 1.4 A
R 105 107 102 1.3 A
Subtotal 715 709 99 1.9 A
L 60 59 99 27.7 D
T 10 9 88 29.8 D
R 43 41 95 17.6 C
Subtotal 113 109 96 24.1 C
L 75 74 98 37.4 E
T 10 10 98 39.9 E
R 65 67 103 24.3 C
Subtotal 150 151 101 31.8 D
Total 1,502 1,479 98 6.6 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 7
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 461 445 97 1.5 A
R 35 35 101 0.5 A
Subtotal 496 480 97 1.4 A
L 75 72 96 4.0 A
T 392 395 101 0.9 A
Subtotal 467 467 100 1.4 A
L 28 28 99 13.2 B
R 38 42 111 7.3 A
Subtotal 66 70 106 9.7 A
Total 1,029 1,017 99 2.0 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
WB
289510
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Spring Canyon Road & Access 8
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
R 15 16 108 1.9 A
Subtotal 15 16 107 1.9 A
L 28 27 96 1.9 A
T 48 49 101 0.4 A
Subtotal 76 76 100 0.9 A
T 29 28 96 0.1 A
Subtotal 29 28 97 0.1 A
Total 121 120 99 0.9 A
Intersection: Spring Canyon Road & Access 9
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
R 6 6 96 2.8 A
Subtotal 6 6 100 2.8 A
L 19 18 95 1.5 A
T 15 15 102 0.1 A
Subtotal 34 33 97 0.9 A
T 2 2 100 0.0 A
Subtotal 2 2 100 0.0 A
Total 42 41 98 1.1 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
EB
WB
290511
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 10
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 646 640 99 6.1 A
R 20 22 110 5.3 A
Subtotal 666 662 99 6.1 A
L 91 93 102 7.4 A
T 879 876 100 2.1 A
Subtotal 970 969 100 2.6 A
L 27 25 92 36.7 E
R 58 58 100 18.2 C
Subtotal 85 83 98 23.8 C
Total 1,722 1,714 100 5.0 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
291512
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South
Type: Signalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 262 252 96 9.6 A
T 5 5 100 11.2 B
R 25 27 107 3.3 A
Subtotal 292 284 97 9.0 A
T 55 56 102 4.8 A
R 30 31 102 1.7 A
Subtotal 85 87 102 3.7 A
L 264 267 101 11.3 B
T 41 40 97 7.5 A
Subtotal 305 307 101 10.8 B
Total 682 678 99 9.2 A
Intersection: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 15 13 87 9.7 A
T 5 3 60 14.1 B
R 470 481 102 1.7 A
Subtotal 490 497 101 2.0 A
L 20 18 89 6.3 A
T 297 292 98 2.0 A
Subtotal 317 310 98 2.2 A
T 290 294 101 11.3 B
R 248 252 102 5.0 A
Subtotal 538 546 101 8.4 A
Total 1,346 1,353 101 4.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
EB
WB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
292513
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Main Street & 100 South
Type: Signalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 337 346 103 31.6 C
T 437 435 100 8.8 A
Subtotal 774 781 101 18.9 B
T 546 547 100 27.1 C
R 200 201 100 11.0 B
Subtotal 746 748 100 22.8 C
L 285 285 100 37.0 D
T 0 1 400 0.5 A
R 482 486 101 18.2 B
Subtotal 767 772 101 25.1 C
Total 2,287 2,301 101 22.3 C
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 32 29 91 12.2 B
T 682 691 101 1.7 A
Subtotal 714 720 101 2.1 A
T 923 918 99 1.1 A
R 40 41 103 0.5 A
Subtotal 963 959 100 1.1 A
L 20 18 89 40.3 E
R 34 34 100 11.6 B
Subtotal 54 52 96 21.5 C
Total 1,730 1,731 100 2.1 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
293514
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 523 528 101 1.6 A
R 50 47 94 1.4 A
Subtotal 573 575 100 1.6 A
L 27 26 96 10.6 B
T 866 861 99 5.3 A
Subtotal 893 887 99 5.5 A
L 17 14 82 22.4 C
R 41 44 108 6.8 A
Subtotal 58 58 100 10.6 B
Total 1,524 1,520 100 4.2 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 40 38 94 5.1 A
T 462 466 101 1.4 A
Subtotal 502 504 100 1.7 A
T 428 432 101 1.1 A
R 70 76 109 0.7 A
Subtotal 498 508 102 1.0 A
L 50 50 101 14.0 B
T 2 2 133 0.1 A
R 39 40 103 6.2 A
Subtotal 91 92 101 10.3 B
Total 1,090 1,104 101 2.1 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
294515
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 8 82 3.1 A
T 476 476 100 0.9 A
Subtotal 486 484 100 0.9 A
T 374 374 100 0.9 A
R 20 17 86 0.4 A
Subtotal 394 391 99 0.9 A
L 10 10 103 9.3 A
R 5 8 152 4.0 A
Subtotal 15 18 120 6.9 A
Total 895 893 100 1.1 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 4 80 4.1 A
R 5 6 120 2.7 A
Subtotal 10 10 100 3.3 A
T 65 65 100 0.5 A
R 10 9 88 0.6 A
Subtotal 75 74 99 0.5 A
L 5 4 80 1.8 A
T 54 54 100 0.1 A
Subtotal 59 58 98 0.2 A
Total 144 142 98 0.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
NE
SW
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
295516
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 66 65 99 0.6 A
Subtotal 66 65 98 0.6 A
T 60 59 99 0.6 A
Subtotal 60 59 98 0.6 A
L 10 11 107 4.9 A
R 95 99 104 3.1 A
Subtotal 105 110 105 3.3 A
Total 231 234 101 1.8 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 45 43 96 4.2 A
T 421 416 99 2.0 A
R 55 55 100 1.4 A
Subtotal 521 514 99 2.1 A
L 5 4 80 3.9 A
T 300 304 101 0.7 A
R 5 8 160 0.4 A
Subtotal 310 316 102 0.7 A
L 5 4 80 12.2 B
T 5 4 80 19.4 C
R 40 42 105 1.6 A
Subtotal 50 50 100 3.9 A
L 129 126 97 22.6 C
T 6 8 123 19.1 C
R 20 23 116 13.4 B
Subtotal 155 157 101 21.1 C
Total 1,036 1,037 100 4.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
WB
SW
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
EB
296517
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway
Type: All-way Stop Controlled
Avg % Avg LOS
L 20 20 101 9.5 A
T 25 27 107 0.6 A
R 477 472 99 7.0 A
Subtotal 522 519 99 6.8 A
T 34 33 97 6.2 A
R 45 43 96 4.2 A
Subtotal 79 76 96 5.1 A
L 457 459 100 9.0 A
T 27 28 105 9.6 A
Subtotal 484 487 101 9.0 A
Total 1,085 1,082 100 7.7 A
Intersection: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 75 74 99 6.9 A
T 523 520 99 2.2 A
Subtotal 598 594 99 2.8 A
T 182 181 99 3.2 A
R 320 320 100 2.1 A
Subtotal 502 501 100 2.5 A
Total 1,100 1,095 100 2.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
297518
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 182 180 99 1.3 A
R 60 65 109 0.5 A
Subtotal 242 245 101 1.1 A
L 25 26 105 3.5 A
T 142 142 100 1.1 A
Subtotal 167 168 101 1.5 A
L 415 414 100 15.4 C
T 5 5 100 16.1 C
R 125 124 99 4.2 A
Subtotal 545 543 100 12.8 B
Total 954 956 100 7.8 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 1
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 45 44 98 6.1 A
T 478 481 101 1.0 A
Subtotal 523 525 100 1.4 A
T 540 546 101 2.1 A
R 65 62 95 1.9 A
Subtotal 605 608 100 2.1 A
L 45 43 96 23.2 C
R 30 33 109 10.1 B
Subtotal 75 76 101 17.5 C
Total 1,203 1,209 100 2.8 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
298519
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 2
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 50 50 100 5.7 A
T 436 439 101 2.0 A
R 26 28 107 0.5 A
Subtotal 512 517 101 2.3 A
L 45 46 102 6.6 A
T 450 458 102 1.5 A
R 75 75 100 1.5 A
Subtotal 570 579 102 1.9 A
L 55 52 95 28.1 D
T 15 15 102 27.8 D
R 35 37 106 6.0 A
Subtotal 105 104 99 20.2 C
L 11 9 84 21.9 C
T 15 14 95 27.4 D
R 35 38 109 8.3 A
Subtotal 61 61 100 14.7 B
Total 1,247 1,261 101 4.2 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 3
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 30 31 102 6.0 A
T 472 471 100 3.4 A
Subtotal 502 502 100 3.6 A
T 369 365 99 1.3 A
R 48 55 114 0.4 A
Subtotal 417 420 101 1.2 A
L 35 34 98 10.4 B
R 25 26 104 5.0 A
Subtotal 60 60 100 8.1 A
Total 979 982 100 2.8 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
299520
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Access 4 & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 4 76 4.3 A
R 12 13 111 3.1 A
Subtotal 17 17 100 3.4 A
L 23 23 100 4.8 A
R 10 11 107 3.0 A
Subtotal 33 34 103 4.2 A
L 9 9 97 2.2 A
T 55 56 102 0.4 A
R 4 4 94 0.3 A
Subtotal 68 69 101 0.6 A
L 10 10 98 2.2 A
T 71 72 101 0.8 A
R 30 33 109 0.5 A
Subtotal 111 115 104 0.8 A
Total 230 235 102 1.4 A
Intersection: Access 5 & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 5 95 3.9 A
R 12 14 119 2.8 A
Subtotal 17 19 112 3.1 A
L 20 17 85 4.5 A
R 10 12 117 3.1 A
Subtotal 30 29 97 3.9 A
L 16 15 95 1.8 A
T 35 36 104 0.2 A
R 5 6 114 0.1 A
Subtotal 56 57 102 0.6 A
L 18 16 90 2.0 A
T 34 35 101 0.9 A
R 34 34 101 0.4 A
Subtotal 86 85 99 0.9 A
Total 189 190 101 1.5 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
300521
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 6
Type: Signalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 45 46 102 15.0 B
T 414 416 101 5.8 A
R 65 60 92 2.7 A
Subtotal 524 522 100 6.3 A
L 100 96 96 13.7 B
T 510 521 102 5.6 A
R 105 104 99 2.9 A
Subtotal 715 721 101 6.3 A
L 60 60 100 14.8 B
T 10 10 98 13.5 B
R 43 42 98 6.1 A
Subtotal 113 112 99 11.4 B
L 75 71 94 14.7 B
T 10 10 98 11.2 B
R 65 67 103 5.9 A
Subtotal 150 148 99 10.5 B
Total 1,502 1,503 100 7.1 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 7
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 461 461 100 1.5 A
R 35 34 98 0.5 A
Subtotal 496 495 100 1.4 A
L 75 74 98 4.4 A
T 392 398 102 0.9 A
Subtotal 467 472 101 1.4 A
L 28 26 92 14.1 B
R 38 40 106 6.4 A
Subtotal 66 66 100 9.4 A
Total 1,029 1,033 100 1.9 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
WB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
301522
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Spring Canyon Road & Access 8
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
R 15 14 95 2.2 A
Subtotal 15 14 93 2.2 A
L 28 26 92 1.8 A
T 48 47 97 0.4 A
Subtotal 76 73 96 0.9 A
T 29 30 103 0.1 A
Subtotal 29 30 103 0.1 A
Total 121 117 97 0.8 A
Intersection: Spring Canyon Road & Access 9
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
R 6 6 96 2.7 A
Subtotal 6 6 100 2.7 A
L 19 17 89 1.4 A
T 15 14 95 0.0 A
Subtotal 34 31 91 0.8 A
T 2 2 100 0.0 A
Subtotal 2 2 100 0.0 A
Total 42 39 93 1.1 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
EB
WB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
302523
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 10
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 646 650 101 6.3 A
R 20 20 100 5.9 A
Subtotal 666 670 101 6.3 A
L 91 90 99 8.4 A
T 879 875 100 2.1 A
Subtotal 970 965 99 2.7 A
L 27 28 103 42.8 E
R 58 60 104 8.6 A
Subtotal 85 88 104 19.5 C
Total 1,722 1,723 100 5.0 A
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
303524
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
APPENDIX C 
95 
th  Percentile Queue Length Reports 
  
304525
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis: Existing (2023) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet) - Rounded Up to Nearest Multiple of 25 ft Project #: UT23-2414
S
W
Intersection LR LT LTR LT LTR TR LR L LR LT LTR R TR LR LT LTR
01: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 --
02: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- --
03: Main Street & 100 South -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- 125 -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- --
04: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
05: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- --
06: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
07: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
08: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
09: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
10: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75
11: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- --
12: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
13: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp -- -- -- 25 -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- --
SB EB WBNB
305526
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis: Existing (2023) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet) - Rounded Up to Nearest Multiple of 25 ft Project #: UT23-2414
S
W
Intersection LR LT LTR LT LTR TR LR L LR LT LTR R TR LR LT LTR
01: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
02: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
03: Main Street & 100 South -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- 125 -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- --
04: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
05: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- --
06: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
07: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
08: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
09: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
10: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75
11: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- --
12: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
13: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- --
NB SB EB WB
306527
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet) - Rounded Up to Nearest Multiple of 25 ft Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection LR LT LTR TR LT LTR TR LR LT L LR LT LTR R TR LR LT LTR
01: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 --
02: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 25 -- -- -- -- -- --
03: Main Street & 100 South -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 125 -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- --
04: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
05: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- --
06: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
07: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
08: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
09: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
10: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 75
11: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- --
12: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
13: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- --
NB SB SW EB WB
307528
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet) - Rounded Up to Nearest Multiple of 25 ft Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection LR LT LTR LT LTR TR LR LT L LR LT LTR R TR LR LT LTR
01: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 --
02: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
03: Main Street & 100 South -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- 125 -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- --
04: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
05: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- --
06: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
07: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
08: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
09: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
10: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 75
11: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- --
12: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
13: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- --
NB SB SW EB WB
308529
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet) - Rounded Up to Nearest Multiple of 25 ft Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection LR LT LTR LT LTR TR LR LT L LR LT LTR R TR LR LT LTR TR
01: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South -- -- -- -- 125 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- --
02: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
03: Main Street & 100 South -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- -- 175 -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- --
04: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
05: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- --
06: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
07: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
08: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
09: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
10: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 75 --
11: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- --
12: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
13: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp -- -- -- 25 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- --
14: Hoytsville Road & Access 1 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
15: Hoytsville Road & Access 2 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
NB SB SW EB WB
309530
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet) - Rounded Up to Nearest Multiple of 25 ft Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection LR LT LTR LT LTR TR LR LT L LR LT LTR R TR LR LT LTR
01: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 --
02: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
03: Main Street & 100 South -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- 125 -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- --
04: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
05: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- --
06: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
07: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
08: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
09: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
10: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 75
11: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- --
12: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
13: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- --
14: Hoytsville Road & Access 1 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
15: Hoytsville Road & Access 2 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
NB SB SW EB WB
310531
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet) - Rounded Up to Nearest Multiple of 25 ft Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection LR LT LTR R LT LTR TR LR LT L LR LT LTR R TR LR LT LTR TR
01: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South -- -- -- -- -- 150 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- --
02: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South -- 75 -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 200 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
03: Main Street & 100 South -- 250 -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- 925 -- -- -- 725 -- -- -- -- --
04: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
05: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- --
06: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
07: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
08: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
09: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
10: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 100 --
11: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- --
12: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
13: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- --
14: Hoytsville Road & Access 1 -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
15: Hoytsville Road & Access 2 -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
16: Hoytsville Road & Access 3 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
17: Access 4 & Creamery Lane -- -- 50 -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
18: Access 5 & Creamery Lane -- -- 50 -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
19: Hoytsville Road & Access 6 -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 75 --
NB SB SW EB WB
311532
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet) - Rounded Up to Nearest Multiple of 25 ft Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection L LR LT LTR T TR LT LTR R T TR LR LT L LR LT LTR R TR LR LT LTR TR
01: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 150 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- --
02: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
03: Main Street & 100 South 200 -- -- -- 225 -- -- -- 100 100 -- -- -- 150 -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- --
04: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
05: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- --
06: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
07: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
08: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
09: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
10: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road -- -- -- 25 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 100 --
11: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- --
12: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
13: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- --
14: Hoytsville Road & Access 1 -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
15: Hoytsville Road & Access 2 -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
16: Hoytsville Road & Access 3 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
17: Access 4 & Creamery Lane -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
18: Access 5 & Creamery Lane -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
19: Hoytsville Road & Access 6 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 75 --
NB SB SW EB WB
312533
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet) - Rounded Up to Nearest Multiple of 25 ft Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection LR LT LTR R LT LTR TR LR LT L LR LT LTR R TR LR LT LTR TR
01: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South -- -- -- -- -- 125 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- --
02: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South -- 675 -- 250 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 150 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
03: Main Street & 100 South -- 225 -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- 1,025 -- -- -- 1,125 -- -- -- -- --
04: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
05: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- --
06: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
07: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
08: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
09: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
10: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 100 --
11: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- --
12: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
13: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 150 -- -- -- -- -- --
14: Hoytsville Road & Access 1 -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
15: Hoytsville Road & Access 2 -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
16: Hoytsville Road & Access 3 -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
17: Access 4 & Creamery Lane -- -- 50 -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
18: Access 5 & Creamery Lane -- -- 50 -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
19: Hoytsville Road & Access 6 -- -- 50 -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 100 --
NB SB SW EB WB
313534
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet) - Rounded Up to Nearest Multiple of 25 ft Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection L LR LT LTR T TR LR LT LTR R T TR LR LT L LR LT LTR R TR LR LT LTR TR
01: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 125 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- --
02: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
03: Main Street & 100 South 175 -- -- -- 125 -- -- -- -- 75 150 -- -- -- 200 -- -- -- 150 -- -- -- -- --
04: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
05: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- --
06: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
07: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
08: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
09: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
10: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 100 --
11: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- --
12: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
13: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 175 -- -- -- -- -- --
14: Hoytsville Road & Access 1 -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
15: Hoytsville Road & Access 2 -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
16: Hoytsville Road & Access 3 -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
17: Access 4 & Creamery Lane -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
18: Access 5 & Creamery Lane -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
19: Hoytsville Road & Access 6 -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 100 --
20: Access 6 & Access 7 -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
NB SB SW EB WB
314535
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet) - Rounded Up to Nearest Multiple of 25 ft Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection L LR LT LTR R T TR L LR LT LTR R T TR LR LT L LR LT LTR R TR LR LT LTR TR
01: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 250 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- --
02: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
03: Main Street & 100 South 325 -- -- -- -- 600 -- -- -- -- -- 100 150 -- -- -- 225 -- -- -- 125 -- -- -- -- --
04: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
05: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- --
06: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane 25 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
07: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
08: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
09: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
10: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 125 --
11: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway -- 125 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- 50 -- --
12: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp -- -- 150 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
13: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 125 -- -- -- -- -- --
14: Hoytsville Road & Access 1 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
15: Hoytsville Road & Access 2 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- 50 --
16: Hoytsville Road & Access 3 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
17: Access 4 & Creamery Lane -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
18: Access 5 & Creamery Lane -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
19: Hoytsville Road & Access 6 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 125 -- -- -- -- 175 --
20: Hoytsville Road & Access 7 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- --
21: Spring Canyon Road & Access 8 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
22: Spring Canyon Road & Access 9 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
23: Hoytsville Road & Access 10 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- --
NB SB SW EB WB
315536
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis: Mitigated Future (2040) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet) - Rounded Up to Nearest Multiple of 25 ft Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection L LR LT LTR R T TR L LR LT LTR R T TR LR LT L LR LT LTR R T TR L LR LT LTR R T TR
01: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 175 -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 50 -- 225 -- -- -- -- 75 --
02: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50
03: Main Street & 100 South 275 -- -- -- -- 450 -- -- -- -- -- 200 250 -- -- -- 275 -- -- -- 125 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
04: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
05: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- 50 -- --
06: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
07: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane -- -- 25 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
08: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
09: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
10: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- 125 -- -- --
11: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway -- 125 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- 225 -- -- -- --
12: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp -- -- 150 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
13: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 125 -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
14: Hoytsville Road & Access 1 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
15: Hoytsville Road & Access 2 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- 50 -- -- -- -- 50 -- 50 -- --
16: Hoytsville Road & Access 3 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
17: Access 4 & Creamery Lane -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
18: Access 5 & Creamery Lane -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
19: Hoytsville Road & Access 6 50 -- -- -- 50 150 -- 75 -- -- -- 75 125 -- -- -- 100 -- -- -- 50 -- -- 100 -- -- -- 75 -- --
20: Hoytsville Road & Access 7 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- --
21: Spring Canyon Road & Access 8 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
22: Spring Canyon Road & Access 9 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
23: Hoytsville Road & Access 10 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- 100 -- --
NB SB SW EB WB
316537
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet) - Rounded Up to Nearest Multiple of 25 ft Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection L LR LT LTR R T TR L LR LT LTR R T TR LR LT L LR LT LTR R TR LR LT LTR TR
01: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 200 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- --
02: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South -- -- 100 -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
03: Main Street & 100 South 300 -- -- -- -- 625 -- -- -- -- -- 125 250 -- -- -- 700 -- -- -- 900 -- -- -- -- --
04: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane -- -- 275 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 125 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
05: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- --
06: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
07: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
08: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
09: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
10: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 125 --
11: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 150 -- -- -- --
12: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp -- -- 150 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
13: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 375 -- -- -- -- -- --
14: Hoytsville Road & Access 1 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
15: Hoytsville Road & Access 2 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 150 -- -- -- -- 100 --
16: Hoytsville Road & Access 3 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
17: Access 4 & Creamery Lane -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
18: Access 5 & Creamery Lane -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
19: Hoytsville Road & Access 6 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 125 -- -- -- -- 175 --
20: Hoytsville Road & Access 7 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- --
21: Spring Canyon Road & Access 8 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
22: Spring Canyon Road & Access 9 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
23: Hoytsville Road & Access 10 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 125 -- -- --
NB SB SW EB WB
317538
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis: Mitigated Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet) - Rounded Up to Nearest Multiple of 25 ft Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection L LR LT LTR R T TR L LR LT LTR R T TR LR LT L LR LT LTR R T TR L LR LT LTR R T TR
01: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 150 -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 50 -- 150 -- -- -- -- 50 --
02: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
03: Main Street & 100 South 275 -- -- -- -- 350 -- -- -- -- -- 275 450 -- -- -- 275 -- -- -- 300 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
04: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
05: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- 75 -- --
06: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
07: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
08: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
09: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
10: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- 150 -- -- --
11: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway -- 125 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- 150 -- -- -- --
12: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp -- -- 125 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
13: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 225 -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
14: Hoytsville Road & Access 1 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
15: Hoytsville Road & Access 2 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- 50 -- -- -- -- 50 -- 50 -- --
16: Hoytsville Road & Access 3 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
17: Access 4 & Creamery Lane -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
18: Access 5 & Creamery Lane -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
19: Hoytsville Road & Access 6 75 -- -- -- 75 175 -- 100 -- -- -- 100 175 -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- 50 -- -- 100 -- -- -- 75 -- --
20: Hoytsville Road & Access 7 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- --
21: Spring Canyon Road & Access 8 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
22: Spring Canyon Road & Access 9 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
23: Hoytsville Road & Access 10 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- 75 -- --
NB SB SW EB WB
318539
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
APPENDIX D 
Project Trip Generation Tables 
 
  
319540
Total % In % Out In Out Internal 
Capture In Out Total 
West Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 90 DU 636 50% 5 0% 318 318 6% 299 299 598 
West Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 60 DU 632 50% 5 0% 316 316 6% 297 297 594 
West Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 13.4 KSF 732 50% 50% 3 66 366 6% 344 344 688 
2,000 1,000 1,000 940 940 1,880 
West Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 90 DU 42 31% 69 % 13 29 3% 13 28 41 
West Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 60 DU 42 26% 74 % 11 31 3% 11 30 41 
West Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 13.4 KSF 32 60% 40% 19 13 3% 18 13 31 
116 43 73 42 71 113 
West Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 90 DU 52 57% 43 % 30 22 10% 27 20 47 
West Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 60 DU 58 63% 37 % 37 21 10% 33 19 52 
West Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 13.4 KSF 98 50% 50% 49 49 10% 44 44 88 
208 116 92 104 83 187 
Trip Generation 
2025 Trip Generation 
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan 
# of 
Units Unit Type 
SOURCE:  Hales Engineering, September 2023 
1.  Land Use Code from the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation ,11th Edition,2021. 
Land Use 1Area 
Reductions New Trips 
TOTAL 
TOTAL 
TOTAL 
Weekday Daily 
AM Peak Hour 
PM Peak Hour 
Total % In % Out In Out Internal 
Capture In Out Total 
West Multifamily Housing (Low-Rise) (220) 135 DU 942 50% 50% 471 471 6% 442 443 885 
West Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 188 DU 1,384 5 0% 50% 692 692 6% 651 650 1,301 
West Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 327 DU 3,002 5 0% 50% 1,501 1,501 6% 1,411 1,411 2,822 
West Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 51 KSF 2,778 50% 50% 1 ,389 1,389 6% 1,305 1,306 2,611 
East Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 153 DU 1,116 5 0% 50% 558 558 6% 524 525 1,049 
East Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 97 DU 982 50% 5 0% 491 491 6% 461 462 923 
East Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 18 KSF 954 50% 50% 477 477 6% 449 448 897 
11,158 5,579 5,579 5,243 5,245 10,488 
West Multifamily Housing (Low-Rise) (220) 135 DU 66 24% 7 6% 16 50 2% 16 49 65 
West Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 188 DU 92 31% 6 9% 29 63 2% 28 62 90 
West Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 327 DU 220 26% 74% 57 163 2% 56 160 216 
West Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 51 KSF 122 60% 40% 73 4 9 2% 72 48 120 
East Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 153 DU 74 31% 6 9% 23 51 2% 23 50 73 
East Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 97 DU 74 26% 74 % 19 55 2% 19 54 73 
East Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 18 KSF 42 60% 40% 25 17 2% 24 17 41 
690 242 448 238 440 678 
West Multifamily Housing (Low-Rise) (220) 135 DU 80 63% 3 7% 50 30 10% 45 27 72 
West Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 188 DU 108 57% 43% 62 46 10% 56 41 97 
West Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 327 DU 304 63% 37% 192 112 10% 173 101 274 
West Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 51 KSF 248 50% 50% 124 124 10% 111 112 223 
East Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 153 DU 88 57% 4 3% 50 38 10% 45 34 79 
East Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 97 DU 98 63% 37 % 62 36 10% 56 32 88 
East Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 18 KSF 116 50% 50% 58 5 8 10% 52 52 104 
1,042 598 444 538 399 937 
Trip Generation 
2030 Trip Generation 
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan 
# of 
Units Unit Type 
SOURCE:  Hales Engineering, September 2023 
1.  Land Use Code from the Institute of Transportat ion Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation ,11th Edition,2021. 
Land Use 1
Area 
Reductions New Trips 
TOTAL 
TOTAL 
TOTAL 
Weekday Daily 
AM Peak Hour 
PM Peak Hour 
320541
Total % In % Out In Out Internal 
Capture In Out Total 
West Multifamily Housing (Low-Rise) (220) 462 DU 3,038 5 0% 50% 1,519 1,519 4% 1,458 1,458 2,916 
West Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 188 DU 1,384 5 0% 50% 692 692 4% 665 664 1,329 
West Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 364 DU 3,314 5 0% 50% 1,657 1,657 4% 1,590 1,591 3,181 
West Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 108 KSF 5,882 50% 50% 2,941 2,941 4% 2,824 2,823 5,647 
East Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 289 DU 2,152 5 0% 50% 1,076 1,076 5% 1,022 1,022 2,044 
East Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 352 DU 3,212 5 0% 50% 1,606 1,606 5% 1,525 1,526 3,051 
East Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 34 KSF 1,852 50% 50% 9 26 926 5% 879 880 1,759 
North Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 178 DU 1,306 50% 50% 653 653 5% 621 620 1,241 
North Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 167 DU 1,618 50% 50% 809 809 5% 768 769 1,537 
North Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 14 KSF 764 50% 50% 38 2 382 5% 363 363 726 
24,522 12,261 12,261 11,715 11,716 23,431 
West Multifamily Housing (Low-Rise) (220) 462 DU 168 24% 76% 40 128 2% 40 125 165 
West Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 188 DU 92 31% 6 9% 29 63 2% 28 62 90 
West Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 364 DU 242 26% 74% 63 179 2% 62 175 237 
West Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 108 KSF 256 60% 40% 15 4 102 2% 151 100 251 
East Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 289 DU 146 31% 69% 45 101 2% 44 99 143 
East Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 352 DU 236 26% 74% 61 175 2% 59 172 231 
East Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 34 KSF 82 60% 40% 49 33 2% 48 32 80 
North Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 178 DU 88 31% 69% 27 61 2% 26 60 86 
North Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 167 DU 120 26 % 74% 31 89 2% 31 87 118 
North Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 14 KSF 34 60% 40% 20 1 4 2% 19 14 33 
1,464 519 945 508 926 1,434 
West Multifamily Housing (Low-Rise) (220) 462 DU 220 63% 37% 139 81 7% 130 75 205 
West Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 188 DU 108 57% 43% 62 46 7% 57 43 100 
West Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 364 DU 336 63% 37% 212 124 7% 197 115 312 
West Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 108 KSF 422 50% 50% 21 1 211 7% 196 196 392 
East Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 289 DU 170 57% 43% 97 73 9% 89 66 155 
East Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 352 DU 326 63% 37% 205 121 9% 187 110 297 
East Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 34 KSF 186 50% 50% 93 9 3 9% 84 85 169 
North Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 178 DU 104 57 % 43% 59 45 9% 54 41 95 
North Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 167 DU 162 63 % 37% 102 60 9% 92 55 147 
North Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 14 KSF 100 50% 50% 50 50 9% 45 46 91 
2,134 1,230 904 1,131 832 1,963 
Trip Generation 
Full Build Trip Generation 
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan 
# of 
Units Unit Type 
SOURCE:  Hales Engineering, September 2023 
1.  Land Use Code from the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation ,11th Edition,2021. 
Land Use 1Area 
Reductions New Trips 
TOTAL 
TOTAL 
TOTAL 
Weekday Daily 
AM Peak Hour 
PM Peak Hour 
321542
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
APPENDIX E 
Functional Classification Map 
 
322543
HOYTSVILLE ROAD
E BROWNS LANE
CREAMERY LANE
E 1100 S
MEADOW HAVEN LANE
HOYT LANE
E BOX ELDER LANE
TRAILS END ROAD
E EDGELL LANE
E KRUG LANE
JUDD LANE
E JUNIPER HILLS DR ROAD
E BROWNS LANE
S CEDAR HOLLER
SPRING CANYON ROAD
HOBBS LANE
Hoytsville
Cemetery
Church
POTENTIAL FUTURE   CONNECTION
SPRING CANYON ROAD
NEW SPRING CANYON ROAD
DESIRED
CONNECTION
4d
4d
5a
5a
5a
5a
5a
5a
5b
5b
5b
4a
4a
4a
3b
4c
4c
4c
4a
4a
5b
4c
4c
OFFSITE
IMPROVE
2,876'
OFFSITE
IMPROVE
2,575'
OFFSITE
IMPROVE
2,555'
OFFSITE
IMPROVE
159'
OFFSITE
IMPROVE
170'
OFFSITE
IMPROVE
1,305'
OFFSITE
IMPROVE
1,007'
OFFSITE
IMPROVE
509'
OFFSITE
IMPROVE
221'
OFFSITE
IMPROVE
1,650'
OFFSITE
IMPROVE
340'
OFFSITE
IMPROVE
541'
5d
3,131'
5d
1,576'
5d
1,739'
5d
1,671'
4a
3a
3c
4a
4a
4a
4a
4a
4b
5a
5a
5a
5b
5b
5c
5c
5a
5a
 5c
5b
5b
5b
4c
Street Lengths - LHM Controlled Land
3a  Major Connector Street, VC
3b  Major Connector Street, Turn Lane
3c  Major Connector Street, No Parking
4a  Connector Street
4b  Connector Street, Park 1-Side
4c  Connector Street, No Parking
4d  One-Way Connector Street
5a  Local Street
5b  Local Street, Park 1-Side
5c  Local Street, No Parking
Total Length of On-Site Streets
5d  Rural Road
Potential Off-Site Improvements
Street Types
1,045'
380'
650'
17,395'
1,540'
3,865'
1,140'
13,095'
8,350'
1,540'
49,000'
As Noted
As Noted
Hotsville Master Plan Concept Study 1,000'500'0'
HODGES DESIGN
Community Design and Land Planning
21  February  2024
AREA
1
VILLAGE
CENTER
AREA
2
AREA
3
AREA
4
AREA
5
Not in Roads Count
(would be 8,840')
323544
 
 Transportation Planning 
1885 West Ute Boulevard 
Park City, UT 84098 
summitcounty.org 
Date:  5/2/2024  
To: Laura Kuhrmeyer 
From: Brandon Brady, Transportation Planning Deputy Director 
Re: Cedar Crest Traffic Impact Study Memorandum 
 
After reviewing the traffic study for the LHM Master Plan dated April 12, 2024, staff offer 
the following comments and opinions.  Traffic counts were taken in January and August 
of 2023 and seasonal traffic was assessed along I-80.  Traffic volumes were increased to 
balance with traffic volumes collected in August.  Staff agree with this adjustment from 
the 2 different dates they took traffic counts. 
 
Staff’s opinion is that the assumptions for internal capture are reasonable if the housing 
and retail are built together.  Staff appreciates the phased approach and the analysis 
done for each phase and the recommendations of the report.  However, there are 
concerns that the traffic study was only done for the property owned by LHM and not for 
the entire overlay zone.  The concern is that the 2,000 residential units are on the low 
end because when the entire overlay zone is built out there will be a lot more traffic than 
is proposed in the traffic study.  It is our understanding that this application is for the 
overlay zone and not just for the property owned by LHM.  Staff recommends that a 
sensitivity analysis be done and/or assumptions be made for all the existing area that can 
be developed within the overlay zone. 
 
Another concern that staff has is the capacity of South Hoytsville Road.  A high-level 
evaluation of capacity for a rural collector 2-lane road is that at around 7,500 vehicles per 
day the level of service (LOS) drops to D and at around 9,500 vehicles per day it drops to 
a LOS E.  Estimating the number of vehicles per day from the traffic report, there will be 
approximately over 12,000 vehicles per day generated from the project at full buildout.  
Staff recommends that the applicant take a closer look at the capacity of South Hoytsville 
Road and at what phase it will require more lanes and if there is enough right of way for 
the number of lanes required. 
324
AGENDA ITEM NO. 3
Staff Report
 
 
DATE:
May 16, 2024
SUBMITTED BY:
Laura Kuhrmeyer, Planning
ITEM TYPE:
Discussion
AGENDA SECTION:
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
SUBJECT:
**
General Plan Advisory Committee appointments.
**
SUGGESTED ACTION:
ESTIMATED TIME:
INTRODUCTION:
BACKGROUND:
CONCLUSION:
 
 
 
EASTERN SUMMIT COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION 
AGENDA ITEM REPORT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENTS:
325
 
 
 
 
 
 
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202     Lehi, UT 84043     p 801.766.4343    
www.halesengineering.com 
 
LHM Master Plan 
Traffic Impact Study 
 
Hoytsville, Utah 
 
April 12, 2024 
UT23-2414 
 
04/12/2024
NO. 12335093
JOSHUA D.
GIBBONS
105326
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 i
  
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
This study addresses the traffic impacts associated  with the proposed LHM Master Plan 
development located in Hoytsville, Utah. The development is located on the east and west sides 
of Hoytsville Road between Judd Lane and Hobson Lane. 
The purpose of this traffic impact study is to anal yze traffic operations at key intersections for 
existing (2023) and future (2025) conditions without the proposed project, and future (2025, 2030, 
and 2040) conditions with the proposed project and to recommend mitigation measures as 
needed. The morning and evening peak hour level of service (LOS) results are shown in Table 
ES-1. Recommended storage lengths are shown in Tabl e ES-2. Exhibits of the proposed 
mitigated roadway network is shown in Figures ES-1 through ES-4. 
Table ES-1: Peak Hour Level of Service Results 
 
  
106327
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 ii 
  
Table ES-2: Recommended Storage Length 
 
SUMMARY OF KEY FINDINGS & RECOMMENDATIONS 
Project Conditions  
• The development will consist of various commercial  and residential land uses 
• The project is anticipated to generate approximate ly 23,431 weekday daily trips, including 1,434 trip s in the 
morning peak hour, and 1,963 trips in the evening peak hour 
• The following auxiliary lanes are recommended by 2 040: 
o Access 1 / Hoytsville Rd: NB left-turn and SB righ t-turn 
o Access 2 / Hoytsville Rd: NB and SB left-turn and SB right-turn 
o Access 3 / Hoytsville Rd: NB left-turn 
o Access 6 / Hoytsville Rd: NB and SB left- and righ t-turn 
o Access 7 / Hoytsville Rd: SB left-turn 
o Access 10 / Hoytsville Rd: SB left-turn 
o Spring Canyon Rd: NB right-turn and SB left-turn 
o Creamery Ln / Hoytsville Rd: NB left-turn and SB r ight-turn 
o Hobson Lane / Hoytsville Rd: NB left-turn and SB r ight-turn 
2023 Background 
Findings • Acceptable LOS 
2025 Background Plus Project 
Assumptions  • 1.5% growth rate • First phase complete 
Findings • Acceptable LOS • Acceptable LOS 
107328
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 iii 
  
2030 Plus Project 
Assumptions  • Red Hills development added to background 
• Second project phase complete 
Findings • Acceptable LOS 
Mitigations 
• 100 South / Main St:  
o Install traffic signal 
§ This may require the removal of some on-street par king 
o Install NB left-turn pocket and SB right-turn pock et 
2040 Plus Project 
Assumptions  • Full build 
Findings • Acceptable LOS 
Mitigations 
• SB I-80 Ramps / 100 South: 
o Install traffic signal 
o Install WB left-turn and EB and SB right-turn lane s 
• 100 South / Main St: 
o Implement NB permissive/protected left-turn phasin g 
o Implement EB right-turn signal timing overlap 
• Hobson Ln / Hoytsville Rd : 
o Install EB and SB right-turn lanes and NB left-tur n lane 
• Spring Canyon Rd / Hoytsville Rd: 
o Install NB and WB right-turn lanes 
• Old Lincoln Hwy / S.R. 32: 
o Install AWSC 
• EB I-80 Ramps / S.R. 32: 
o Install separate EB right-turn pocket 
• Access 2 / Hoytsville Rd: 
o Install EB and WB right-turn pockets 
• Access 6 / Hoytsville Rd: 
o Install traffic signal 
o Install EB and WB left- and right-turn lanes 
• Access 10 / Hoytsville Rd: 
o Install WB right-turn pocket 
 
  
108329
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Mitigated Model Figure ES-1
 
Hales Engineering 801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West Ste 202, Lehi, UT, 84043 09/20/2023
SB I-80 On Ramp
Icy Spring Road
SB I-80 Off Ramp
NB I-80 Off Ramp
100 South
NB I-80 On Ramp
100 South
Main Street
Key
  Project Type
            Install Left-turn Lane
            Install Right-turn Lane
            Traffic Signal (when warranted)
            All-Way Stop Control (AWSC)
109330
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Mitigated Model Figure ES-2
Hales Engineering 801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West Ste 202, Lehi, UT, 84043 09/21/2023
Hobson Lane 
Hoytsville Road 
Access 10 
Key
  Project Type
            Install Left-turn Lane
            Install Right-turn Lane
            Traffic Signal (when warranted)
            All-Way Stop Control
110331
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Mitigated Model Figure ES-3
Hales Engineering 801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West Ste 202, Lehi, UT, 84043 09/20/2023
Access 1
Access 2
Access 2
Hoytsville Road
Access 3
Access 4
Creamery Lane
Access 5
Access 6
Access 6
Access 7
Spring Canyon Road
Access 8
Access 9
Key
  Project Type
            Install Left-turn Lane
            Install Right-turn Lane
            Traffic Signal (when warranted)
            All-Way Stop Control (AWSC)
111332
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Mitigated Model Figure ES-4
Hales Engineering 801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West Ste 202, Lehi, UT, 84043 09/20/2023
SE Wanship Road
Old Lincoln Highway
Old Lincoln Highway
SB I-80 Off Ramp
West Hoytsville Road
Hoytsville Road
Old Lincoln Highway W
B I-80 On Ram
p
S.R. 32
EB I-80 Off Ram
p
EB I-80 On Ramp
Key
  Project Type
            Install Left-turn Lane
            Install Right-turn Lane
            Traffic Signal (when warranted)
            All-Way Stop Control (AWSC)
112333
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 viii 
  
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ............................................................................................................................... i 
SUMMARY OF KEY FINDINGS & RECOMMENDATIONS ......................................................................... ii  
TABLE OF CONTENTS ............................................................................................................................ viii  
LIST OF TABLES ........................................................................................................................................ ix  
LIST OF FIGURES ...................................................................................................................................... ix 
I.  INTRODUCTION .................................................................................................................................. 1 
A.  Purpose ................................................................................................................................................. 1 
B.  Scope .................................................................................................................................................... 2 
C.  Analysis Methodology ........................................................................................................................... 2 
D.  Level of Service Standards ................................................................................................................... 2 
II.  EXISTING (2023) BACKGROUND CONDITIONS............................................................................... 4 
A.  Purpose ................................................................................................................................................. 4 
B.  Roadway System .................................................................................................................................. 4 
C.  Traffic Volumes ..................................................................................................................................... 4 
D.  Level of Service Analysis ...................................................................................................................... 5 
E.  Queuing Analysis .................................................................................................................................. 5 
F.  Mitigation Measures .............................................................................................................................. 8 
III.  FUTURE (2025) BACKGROUND CONDITIONS ................................................................................. 9 
A.  Purpose ................................................................................................................................................. 9 
B.  Roadway Network ................................................................................................................................. 9 
C.  Traffic Volumes ..................................................................................................................................... 9 
D.  Level of Service Analysis ...................................................................................................................... 9 
E.  Queuing Analysis .................................................................................................................................. 9 
F.  Mitigation Measures .............................................................................................................................. 9 
IV.  PROJECT CONDITIONS ................................................................................................................... 13  
A.  Purpose ............................................................................................................................................... 13  
B.  Project Description .............................................................................................................................. 13  
C.  Trip Generation ................................................................................................................................... 13  
D.  Trip Distribution and Assignment ........................................................................................................ 14  
E.  Access ................................................................................................................................................. 15  
F.  Auxiliary Lanes .................................................................................................................................... 25  
G.  Functional Classification ..................................................................................................................... 26  
H.  Active Transportation .......................................................................................................................... 26  
V.  FUTURE (2025) PLUS PROJECT CONDITIONS .............................................................................. 27  
A.  Purpose ............................................................................................................................................... 27  
B.  Traffic Volumes ................................................................................................................................... 27  
C.  Level of Service Analysis .................................................................................................................... 27  
D.  Queuing Analysis ................................................................................................................................ 27  
E.  Mitigation Measures ............................................................................................................................ 27  
VI.  FUTURE (2030) PLUS PROJECT CONDITIONS .............................................................................. 31  
A.  Purpose ............................................................................................................................................... 31  
B.  Traffic Volumes ................................................................................................................................... 31  
C.  Level of Service Analysis .................................................................................................................... 31  
D.  Queuing Analysis ................................................................................................................................ 31  
113334
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 ix 
  
E.  Mitigation Measures ............................................................................................................................ 31  
F.  Mitigated Scenario .............................................................................................................................. 34  
VII.  FUTURE (2040) PLUS PROJECT CONDITIONS .............................................................................. 36  
A.  Purpose ............................................................................................................................................... 36  
B.  Traffic Volumes ................................................................................................................................... 36  
C.  Level of Service Analysis .................................................................................................................... 36  
D.  Queuing Analysis ................................................................................................................................ 36  
E.  Mitigation Measures ............................................................................................................................ 40  
F.  Mitigated Scenario .............................................................................................................................. 40  
G.  Recommended Storage Lengths ........................................................................................................ 42  
 
Appendix A: Turning Movement Counts 
Appendix B: LOS Results 
Appendix C: Queuing Results 
Appendix D: Project Trip Generation Tables 
 
LIST OF TABLES 
Table 1: Level of Service Description .................................................................................................... 3 
Table 2: Existing (2023) Background Peak Hour LOS .......................................................................... 5 
Table 3: Future (2025) Background Peak Hour LOS .......................................................................... 12  
Table 4: Project Land Uses.................................................................................................................. 13  
Table 5: Land Use Intensity by Phase ................................................................................................. 13  
Table 6: Area’s Land Uses Added to Each Phase .............................................................................. 14  
Table 7: Internal Capture Percentages for Each Phase and Area ...................................................... 14  
Table 8: Trip Distribution ...................................................................................................................... 15  
Table 9: Future (2025) Plus Project Peak Hour LOS .......................................................................... 30  
Table 10: Future (2030) Plus Project Peak Hour LOS ........................................................................ 34  
Table 11: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project Peak Hour LOS ........................................................ 35  
Table 12: Future (2040) Plus Project Peak Hour LOS ........................................................................ 39  
Table 13: Mitigated Future (2040) Plus Project Peak Hour LOS ........................................................ 41  
Table 14: Recommended Storage Lengths ......................................................................................... 42  
 
 
LIST OF FIGURES 
Figure 1: Vicinity map showing the project location in Hoytsville, Utah ................................................ 1 
Figure 2: Existing (2023) background peak hour traffic volumes .......................................................... 6 
Figure 3: Future (2025) background peak hour traffic volumes .......................................................... 10  
Figure 4: Trip assignment for the peak hours ...................................................................................... 16  
Figure 5: Future (2025) plus project peak hour traffic volumes ........................................................... 28  
Figure 6: Future (2030) plus project peak hour traffic volumes ........................................................... 32  
Figure 7: Future (2040) plus project peak hour traffic volumes ........................................................... 37  
114335
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 1
  
I.  INTRODUCTION 
A. Purpose 
This study addresses the traffic impacts associated  with the proposed LHM Master Plan 
development located in Hoytsville, Utah. The development is located on the east and west sides 
of Hoytsville Road between Judd Lane and Hobson Lan e. Figure 1 shows a vicinity map of the 
proposed development. 
The purpose of this traffic impact study is to anal yze traffic operations at key intersections for 
existing (2023) and future (2025) conditions without the proposed project, and future (2025, 2030, 
and 2040) conditions with the proposed project and to recommend mitigation measures as 
needed. 
 
Figure 1: Vicinity map showing the project location in Hoytsville, Utah 
115336
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 2
  
B. Scope 
The study area was defined based on conversations with the development team. This study was 
scoped to evaluate the traffic operational performa nce impacts of the project on the following 
intersections: 
• SB I-80 Ramps / Icy Springs Road 
• NB I-80 Ramps / 100 South 
• 100 South / Main Street 
• Hobson Lane / Hoytsville Road 
• Spring Canyon Road / Hoytsville Road  
• Creamery Lane / Hoytsville Road 
• Judd Lane / Hoytsville Road 
• SE Wanship Road / Lincoln Highway 
• SB I-80 Off-ramp / Old Lincoln Hwy 
• Old Lincoln Highway / W. Hoytsville Rd  
• Old Lincoln Highway / S.R. 32  
• WB I-80 On-ramp / S.R. 32 
• EB I-80 Ramps / S.R. 32 
• Project Accesses (10) 
C. Analysis Methodology 
Level of service (LOS) is a term that describes the  operating performance of an intersection or 
roadway. LOS is measured quantitatively and reported on a scale from A to F, with A representing 
the best performance and F the worst. Table 1 provi des a brief description of each LOS letter 
designation and an accompanying average delay per vehicle for both signalized and unsignalized 
intersections. 
The Highway Capacity Manual  (HCM), 6
th  Edition, 2016 methodology was used in this study t o 
remain consistent with “state-of-the-practice” prof essional standards. This methodology has 
different quantitative evaluations for signalized a nd unsignalized intersections. For signalized, 
roundabout, and all-way stop-controlled (AWSC) intersections, the LOS is provided for the overall 
intersection (weighted average of all approach dela ys). For all other unsignalized intersections, 
LOS is reported based on the worst movement. 
Using Synchro/SimTraffic software, which follow the HCM methodology, the peak hour LOS was 
computed for each study intersection. Multiple runs of SimTraffic were used to provide a statistical 
evaluation of the interaction between the intersections. The detailed LOS reports are provided in 
Appendix B. Hales Engineering also calculated the 9 5 
th  percentile queue lengths for the study 
intersections using SimTraffic. The detailed queue length reports are provided in Appendix C. 
D. Level of Service Standards 
For the purposes of this study, a minimum acceptabl e intersection performance for each of the 
study intersections was set at LOS D for UDOT roads  and LOS C for City and County roads. If 
levels of service D (on City or County roads), E, o r F conditions exist, an explanation and/or 
mitigation measures will be presented.  
  
116337
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 3
  
Table 1: Level of Service Description 
LOS Description of 
Traffic Conditions 
Average Delay 
(seconds/vehicle) 
Signalized 
Intersections 
Unsignalized 
Intersections 
A 
 
Free Flow / 
Insignificant Delay ≤ 10 ≤ 10 
B 
 
Stable Operations / 
Minimum Delays > 10 to 20 > 10 to 15 
C 
 
Stable Operations / 
Acceptable Delays > 20 to 35 > 15 to 25 
D 
 
Approaching 
Unstable Flows / 
Tolerable Delays 
> 35 to 55 > 25 to 35 
E 
 
Unstable Operations 
/ Significant Delays  > 55 to 80 > 35 to 50 
F 
 
Forced Flows / 
Unpredictable Flows 
/ Excessive Delays  
> 80 > 50 
Source: Hales Engineering Descriptions, based on th e Highway Capacity Manual  (HCM), 7th  Edition, 2023 
Methodology (Transportation Research Board) 
  
117338
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 4
  
II.  EXISTING (2023) BACKGROUND CONDITIONS 
A. Purpose 
The purpose of the background analysis is to study the intersections and roadways during the 
peak travel periods of the day with background traf fic and geometric conditions. Through this 
analysis, background traffic operational deficienci es can be identified, and potential mitigation 
measures recommended. This analysis provides a base line condition that may be compared to 
the build conditions to identify the impacts of the development. 
B. Roadway System 
The primary roadways that will provide access to the project site are described below: 
Hoytsville Road – is a county-maintained roadway wh ich is classified by the Eastern Summit 
County Transportation Master Plan (2011) as an arterial street. The roadway has one travel lane 
in each direction. The posted speed limit is between 30 and 40 mph in the study area. 
C. Traffic Volumes 
Weekday morning (7:00 to 9:00 a.m.) and evening (4: 00 to 6:00 p.m.) peak period traffic counts 
were performed on Wednesday, January 4, 2023, and Monday, August 28, 2023, at the following 
intersections: 
• SB I-80 Ramps / Icy Springs Road (Aug) 
• NB I-80 Ramps / 100 South (Aug) 
• 100 South / Main Street (Jan) 
• Hobson Lane / Hoytsville Road (Jan) 
• Spring Canyon Road / Hoytsville Road (Aug) 
• Creamery Lane / Hoytsville Road (Jan) 
• Judd Lane / Hoytsville Road (Aug) 
• SE Wanship Road / Lincoln Highway (Jan) 
• SB I-80 Off-ramp / Old Lincoln Hwy (Aug) 
• Old Lincoln Hwy / W. Hoytsville Rd (Jan) 
• Old Lincoln Highway / S.R. 32 (Aug) 
• WB I-80 On-ramp / S.R. 32 (Aug) 
• EB I-80 Ramps / S.R. 32 (Aug) 
The morning peak hour was determined to be between 7:00 and 8:00 a.m., and the evening peak 
hour was determined to be between 4:00 and 5:00 p.m . The evening peak hour volumes were 
approximately 13% higher than the morning peak hour  volumes. Both the morning and evening 
peak hour volumes were used in the analysis. Detailed count data are included in Appendix A. 
Hales Engineering made seasonal adjustments to the observed traffic volumes. Monthly traffic 
volume data were obtained from a nearby UDOT automa tic traffic recorder (ATR) on I-80 (ATR 
#309). In recent years, traffic volumes on I-80 in January have been equal to approximately 75% 
of average traffic volumes and traffic volumes in August have been equal to approximately 130% 
of average traffic volumes. Since I-80 volumes likely experience greater seasonal variability than 
the studies roadways do, the counts were not adjust ed based on the ATR data. However, the 
traffic volumes which were collected in January were increased where necessary to balance with 
the traffic volumes collected in August.  
118339
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 5
  
Figure 2 shows the existing morning and evening pea k hour volumes as well as intersection 
geometry at the study intersections. 
D. Level of Service Analysis 
Hales Engineering determined that all study interse ctions are currently operating at acceptable 
levels of service during the morning and evening peak hours, as shown in Table 2. These results 
serve as a baseline condition for the impact analysis of the proposed development during existing 
(2023) conditions. 
Table 2: Existing (2023) Background Peak Hour LOS 
Intersection LOS (Sec. Delay / Veh.) / Movement 1 
Description Control Morning Peak  Evening Peak  
SB I-80 Ramps / Icy Spring Road & 100 South SB Stop  a (8.1) / SBL a (5.3) / SBL 
NB I-80 On & Off Ramps / 100 South NB Stop a (6.0) / NBL a (4.8) / NBL 
100 South / Main Street EB Stop b (10.6) / EBL a (9 .3) / EBL 
Hobson Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (4.6) / EBL  a (4.8) / EBL 
Spring Canyon Road / Hoytsville Road WB Stop a (4.6 ) / WBL a (4.0) / WBL 
Creamery Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (3.7) / E BL a (4.0) / EBL 
Judd Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (4.3) / EBL a  (3.7) / EBL 
SE Wanship Road / Old Lincoln Highway NB Stop a (3. 7) / NBL a (2.3) / NBL 
Old Lincoln Highway / SB I-80 Off Ramp SB Stop a (2 .9) / SWR a (4.8) / SWL 
Old Lincoln Highway / West Hoytsville Road EB/WB St op a (5.9) / WBT a (5.0) / WBL 
Old Lincoln Highway / S.R. 32 EB Stop a (8.1) / EBT  a (9.3) / EBT 
WB I-80 On Ramp / S.R. 32 - a (3.4) / NBL a (2.8) /  NBL 
EB I-80 On & Off Ramps / S.R. 32 EB Stop a (5.5) / EBL a (7.7) / EBT 
1. Movement indicated for unsignalized intersections where delay and LOS represents worst movement. SBL = Southbound left movement, etc. 
2. Uppercase LOS used for signalized, roundabout, and AWSC intersections. Lowercase LOS used for all other unsignalized intersections. 
Source: Hales Engineering, April 2024  
E. Queuing Analysis 
Hales Engineering calculated the 95 th  percentile queue lengths for each of the study intersections. 
No significant queueing was observed during the morning and evening peak hours. 
119340
DATE
PROJECT
Existing (2023) Background
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
Figure 2A
UT23-2414
09/19/2023
Judd Ln/Hoytsville Rd
1
2
4
5
7
10
8
11
13
NB I-80 Ramps/100 South
38
218
16
150
14
0
80
Hobson Ln/Hoytsville Rd
3
100 South/Main Street
190
40
202
62
54
133
6
Creamery Ln/Hoytsville Rd
9
Old Lincoln Hwy/SB I-80
Ramp
23
9
90
1
12
SB I-80 Ramps/100 South
34
198
36
24
12
1
130
Spring Canyon Rd/
Hoytsville Rd
19
9
55
21
71
6
SE Wanship Rd/Old Lincoln
Hwy
Old Lincoln Hwy/S.R. 32
WB I-80 Ramp/S.R. 32
13
225
6
26
30
49
EB I-80 Ramps/S.R. 32
97
134
81
79
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
53
0
45
108
26
107
45
Old Lincoln Hwy/West
Hoytsville Rd
11
12
13
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
32
4
5
5
45
5
63
31
3
14
73
1
116
15
1
9
65
0
29
9
1
7
0
16
1
4
2
107
2
0
51
2
75
2
16
27
7
Morning
Peak Hour
120341
DATE
PROJECT
Existing (2023) Background
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
Figure 2B
UT23-2414
09/19/2023
Judd Ln/Hoytsville Rd
1
2
4
5
7
10
8
11
13
NB I-80 Ramps/100 South
92
117
13
82
9
0
214
Hobson Ln/Hoytsville Rd
3
100 South/Main Street
221
75
153
100
56
104
6
Creamery Ln/Hoytsville Rd
9
Old Lincoln Hwy/SB I-80
Ramp
23
16
69
5
12
SB I-80 Ramps/100 South
30
96
39
22
19
0
56
Spring Canyon Rd/
Hoytsville Rd
13
3
62
11
87
9
SE Wanship Rd/Old Lincoln
Hwy
Old Lincoln Hwy/S.R. 32
WB I-80 Ramp/S.R. 32
13
145
5
35
12
88
EB I-80 Ramps/S.R. 32
70
94
58
120
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
83
1
94
76
18
95
45
Old Lincoln Hwy/West
Hoytsville Rd
11
12
13
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
32
4
5
11
74
5
72
15
5
30
95
10
95
5
2
14
35
5
69
15
6
1
0
22
0
12
0
80
0
0
30
2
30
1
35
51
15
Evening
Peak Hour
121342
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 8
  
F. Mitigation Measures 
No mitigation measures are recommended. 
122343
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 9
  
III.  FUTURE (2025) BACKGROUND CONDITIONS 
A. Purpose 
The purpose of the future (2025) background analysis is to study the intersections and roadways 
during the peak travel periods of the day for futur e background traffic and geometric conditions. 
Through this analysis, future background traffic op erational deficiencies can be identified, and 
potential mitigation measures recommended. 
B. Roadway Network 
According to the Summit County Long Range Transportation Plan, there are no projects planned 
before 2025 in the study area. Therefore, no changes were made to the roadway network for the 
future (2025) analysis. 
C. Traffic Volumes 
Hales Engineering estimated future (2025) volumes u sing the Summit County Travel Demand 
Model, which projects an annual growth rate of appr oximately 1.5% in the area. Future (2025) 
morning and evening peak hour turning movement volumes are shown in Figure 3. 
D. Level of Service Analysis 
Hales Engineering determined that all study intersections are anticipated to operate at acceptable 
levels of service during the morning and evening pe ak hours in future (2025) background 
conditions, as shown in Table 3. These results serv e as a baseline condition for the impact 
analysis of the proposed development for future (2025) conditions. 
E. Queuing Analysis 
Hales Engineering calculated the 95 th  percentile queue lengths for each of the study intersections. 
No significant queueing is anticipated during the morning and evening peak hours.  
F. Mitigation Measures 
No mitigation measures are recommended. 
  
123344
DATE
PROJECT
Future (2025) Background
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
Figure 3A
UT23-2414
09/19/2023
Judd Ln/Hoytsville Rd
1
2
4
5
7
10
8
11
13
NB I-80 Ramps/100 South
40
230
20
160
15
0
85
Hobson Ln/Hoytsville Rd
3
100 South/Main Street
200
45
210
65
60
140
6
Creamery Ln/Hoytsville Rd
9
Old Lincoln Hwy/SB I-80
Ramp
30
20
95
5
12
SB I-80 Ramps/100 South
35
210
40
25
15
5
140
Spring Canyon Rd/
Hoytsville Rd
20
10
60
25
75
10
SE Wanship Rd/Old Lincoln
Hwy
Old Lincoln Hwy/S.R. 32
WB I-80 Ramp/S.R. 32
15
235
10
30
35
50
EB I-80 Ramps/S.R. 32
100
145
85
85
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
55
0
50
115
30
115
50
Old Lincoln Hwy/West
Hoytsville Rd
11
12
13
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
32
5
10
10
50
10
35
35
5
15
80
5
120
20
5
10
70
5
30
20
5
10
5
20
5
5
5
115
5
5
55
5
80
5
20
30
10
Morning
Peak Hour
124345
DATE
PROJECT
Future (2025) Background
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
Figure 3B
UT23-2414
09/19/2023
Judd Ln/Hoytsville Rd
1
2
4
5
7
10
8
11
13
NB I-80 Ramps/100 South
95
125
15
85
10
5
225
Hobson Ln/Hoytsville Rd
3
100 South/Main Street
230
80
160
105
60
110
6
Creamery Ln/Hoytsville Rd
9
Old Lincoln Hwy/SB I-80
Ramp
30
30
75
10
12
SB I-80 Ramps/100 South
35
100
40
25
20
5
60
Spring Canyon Rd/
Hoytsville Rd
15
5
65
15
90
10
SE Wanship Rd/Old Lincoln
Hwy
Old Lincoln Hwy/S.R. 32
WB I-80 Ramp/S.R. 32
10
150
10
40
15
95
EB I-80 Ramps/S.R. 32
75
100
60
130
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
90
5
100
80
20
100
50
Old Lincoln Hwy/West
Hoytsville Rd
11
12
13
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
32
5
10
15
80
10
75
20
10
35
100
15
100
10
5
15
40
10
75
30
10
5
5
25
5
15
5
85
5
5
35
5
35
5
40
55
20
Evening
Peak Hour
125346
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 12 
  
Table 3: Future (2025) Background Peak Hour LOS 
Intersection LOS (Sec. Delay / Veh.) / Movement 1 
Description Control Morning Peak  Evening Peak  
SB I-80 Ramps / Icy Spring Road & 100 South SB Stop  b (10.2) / SBT a (5.8) / SBT 
NB I-80 On & Off Ramps / 100 South NB Stop a (7.0) / NBL a (7.0) / NBT 
100 South / Main Street EB Stop b (10.9) / EBL a (1 0.0) / EBL 
Hobson Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (4.6) / EBL  a (4.7) / EBL 
Spring Canyon Road / Hoytsville Road WB Stop a (5.0 ) / WBL a (4.5) / WBL 
Creamery Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (3.5) / E BL a (4.5) / EBL 
Judd Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (4.3) / EBL a  (3.9) / EBL 
SE Wanship Road / Old Lincoln Highway NB Stop a (4. 0) / NBL a (3.6) / NBL 
Old Lincoln Highway / SB I-80 Off Ramp SB Stop a (4 .1) / SWL a (4.3) / SWL 
Old Lincoln Highway / West Hoytsville Road EB/WB St op a (5.5) / WBL a (6.1) / EBT 
Old Lincoln Highway / S.R. 32 EB Stop a (9.2) / EBT  a (7.2) / EBT 
WB I-80 On Ramp / S.R. 32 - a (3.3) / NBL a (2.9) /  NBL 
EB I-80 On & Off Ramps / S.R. 32 EB Stop a (5.7) / EBL a (6.6) / EBT 
1. Movement indicated for unsignalized intersections where delay and LOS represents worst movement. SBL = Southbound left movement, etc. 
2. Uppercase LOS used for signalized, roundabout, and AWSC intersections. Lowercase LOS used for all other unsignalized intersections. 
Source: Hales Engineering, April 2024  
  
126347
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 13 
  
IV.  PROJECT CONDITIONS 
A. Purpose 
The project conditions discussion explains the type  and intensity of development. This provides 
the basis for trip generation, distribution, and assignment of project trips to the surrounding study 
intersections defined in Chapter I. 
B. Project Description 
The proposed LHM Master Plan development is located on the east and west sides of Hoytsville 
Road between Judd Lane and Hobson Lane. The development will consist of various residential 
and commercial uses. The proposed land use for the development has been identified in Table 
4. 
Table 4: Project Land Uses 
Land Use Intensity 
Multifamily housing 462 Units 
Townhomes 655 Units 
Single-family detached housing 883 Units 
Commercial / Retail 156,000 sq. ft. 
C. Trip Generation 
Trip generation for the development was calculated using trip generation rates published in the 
Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE), Trip Generation , 11th  Edition, 2021. For the purposes 
of this study, it was assumed that the project woul d be constructed with an absorption rate of 
approximately 150 residential units per year. Phasing details provided by the developer were used 
to determine where development would occur between each horizon year. A summary of the total 
residential unit count and retail square footage for each phase is shown in Table 5. 
Table 5: Land Use Intensity by Phase 
Land Use Phase 1 (2025) Phase 2 (2030) Full Build (2040) 
Residential 150 Units 900 Units 2000 Units 
Retail 13,400 sq. ft. 69,000 sq. ft. 156,000 sq. ft. 
Trip generation for the development was split into the following geographical areas based on the 
phasing details that were provided:  
• North (North of Spring Canyon Road and east of Hoy tsville Road)  
• East (South of Spring Canyon Road and east of Hoyt sville Road)  
127348
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 14 
  
• West (West of Hoytsville Road)  
A summary of the additional residential units and r etail space from each area added for each 
horizon year is shown in Table 6. 
Table 6: Phased Land Use by Area 
Land Use Phase 1 (2025) Phase 2 (2030) Phase 3 (2040) 
Land Use North  East West  North  East West  North  East West  
Residential (Dwelling Uints) - - 150 - 250 500 345 391 364 
Retail (1,000 sq. ft.) - - 13.4 - 17.5 37.6 14 16.5 57 
Due to the mixed-use nature of the development, the  NCHRP 684 Internal Trip Capture 
Estimation Tool was used to estimate internal captu re trips between land uses. The following 
internal capture percentages, shown in Table 7, wer e applied as trip reductions to the trip 
generation for the following phases. 
Table 7: Internal Capture Percentages for Each Phase and Area 
 Phase 1 (2025) Phase 1 +Phase 2 (2030)  Full Build (2040) 
Time Period North East West  North  East West North  East West  
Daily  - - 6% - 6% 6% 5% 5% 4% 
Morning Peak Hour   3%  2% 2% 2% 2% 2% 
Evening Peak Hour - - 10% - 10% 10% 9% 9% 7% 
Detailed trip generation for the proposed project f or future (2025, 2030, and 2040) analyses are 
included in Appendix D, as well as a listing of the anticipated uses in each horizon year. 
The total trip generation for the development is as follows: 
• Daily Trips:      23,431 
• Morning Peak Hour Trips:     1,434 
• Evening Peak Hour Trips:     1,963 
D. Trip Distribution and Assignment 
Project traffic is assigned to the roadway network based on the type of trip and the proximity of 
project access points to major streets, high popula tion densities, and regional trip attractions. 
Existing travel patterns observed during data colle ction also provide helpful guidance to 
establishing these distribution percentages, especi ally near the site. Trip distribution varies by 
phase as development is focused in different areas in each phase. The resulting distribution of 
project generated trips during the morning and even ing peak hour is shown in Table 8. Detailed 
trip distribution percentages are shown in Figure 4. 
128349
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 15 
  
Table 8: Trip Distribution 
Direction 
% To/From Project 
2025 2030 2040 
North 47% 45% 45% 
South 45% 42% 42% 
West 7% 7% 7% 
East 1% 1% 1% 
Between Areas  - 5% 5% 
These trip distribution assumptions were used to assign the morning and evening peak hour trip 
generation at the study intersections to create trip assignment for the proposed development. Trip 
assignment for the development is shown in Figure 4. 
E. Access 
The proposed access for the site will be gained at the following locations: 
Hoytsville Road: 
• Access 1 will be located approximately 1,300 feet north of the Creamery Lane / 
Hoytsville Road intersection. It will access the pr oject on the west side of Hoytsville 
Road. It is anticipated that the access will be stop-controlled. 
• Access 2 will be located approximately 500 feet no rth of the Creamery Lane / 
Hoytsville Road intersection. It will access the pr oject on the east and west side of 
Hoytsville Road. It is anticipated that the access will be stop-controlled. 
• Access 3 will be located approximately 1,300 feet south of the Creamery Lane / 
Hoytsville Road intersection. It will access the pr oject on the west side of Hoytsville 
Road. It is anticipated that the access will be stop-controlled. 
• Access 6 will be located approximately 600 feet so uth of the Spring Canyon Road / 
Hoytsville Road intersection. It will access the pr oject on the east and west side of 
Hoytsville Road. It is anticipated that the access will be stop-controlled. 
• Access 7 will be located approximately 800 feet so uth of the Creamery Lane / 
Hoytsville Road intersection. It will access the pr oject on the east side of Hoytsville 
Road. It is anticipated that the access will be stop-controlled. 
• Access 10 will be located approximately 4,300 feet  north of the Spring Canyon Road 
/ Hoytsville Road intersection. It will access the project on the east and west side of 
Hoytsville Road. It is anticipated that the access will be stop-controlled.  
129350
DATE
PROJECT
Trip Distribution (2025)
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
UT23-2414
11/03/2023
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
10%
37%
5%
35%
2%
5%
0%
5%
Between Areas
0%
1%
Figure 4A
130351
DATE
PROJECT
Trip Assignment (2025)
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
Figure 4B
UT23-2414
09/19/2023
Judd Ln/Hoytsville Rd
1
2
4
5
7
10
8
11
13
14
15
NB I-80 Ramps/100 South
5
4
0
2
0
0
3
Hobson Ln/Hoytsville Rd
3
100 South/Main Street
0
5
0
16
9
26
6
Creamery Ln/Hoytsville Rd
9
Old Lincoln Hwy/SB I-80
Ramp
3
2
0
0
12
SB I-80 Ramps/100 South
0
4
0
0
0
0
2
Spring Canyon Rd/
Hoytsville Rd
0
0
21
0
35
0
SE Wanship Rd/Old Lincoln
Hwy
Old Lincoln Hwy/S.R. 32
WB I-80 Ramp/S.R. 32
2
30
0
0
0
18
EB I-80 Ramps/S.R. 32
26
4
0
18
1
2
3
4
7
8
9
10
15
0
0
4
0
3
0
Old Lincoln Hwy/West
Hoytsville Rd
11
12
13
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
32
3
0
4
32
0
18
0
0
0
21
0
35
0
0
0
32
0
18
2
0
0
0
3
0
0
0
3
0
0
0
0
29
0
0
16
2
18
18
11
10
10
17
17
18
10
18
11
10
Access 1/Hoytsville Rd
Access 2/Hoytsville Rd
Morning
Peak Hour
6
5
15
14
131352
DATE
PROJECT
Trip Assignment (2025)
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
Figure 4C
UT23-2414
09/19/2023
Judd Ln/Hoytsville Rd
1
2
4
5
7
10
8
11
13
14
15
NB I-80 Ramps/100 South
11
4
0
12
0
0
5
Hobson Ln/Hoytsville Rd
3
100 South/Main Street
0
17
0
38
15
30
6
Creamery Ln/Hoytsville Rd
9
Old Lincoln Hwy/SB I-80
Ramp
3
4
0
0
12
SB I-80 Ramps/100 South
0
4
0
0
0
0
12
Spring Canyon Rd/
Hoytsville Rd
0
0
55
0
45
0
SE Wanship Rd/Old Lincoln
Hwy
Old Lincoln Hwy/S.R. 32
WB I-80 Ramp/S.R. 32
1
33
3
0
0
41
EB I-80 Ramps/S.R. 32
29
4
0
41
1
2
3
4
6
7
8
9
10
36
0
0
4
0
5
0
Old Lincoln Hwy/West
Hoytsville Rd
11
12
13
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
32
5
0
4
34
0
44
0
0
0
55
0
45
0
0
0
34
0
44
4
0
0
0
3
0
0
0
3
0
0
0
0
31
0
0
40
4
23
18
28
27
24
22
22
20
27
18
25
24
Access 1/Hoytsville Rd
Access 2/Hoytsville Rd
Evening
Peak Hour
5
15
14
132353
DATE
PROJECT
Trip Distribution (2030)
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
UT23-2414
11/03/2023
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
10%
35%
5%
32%
2%
5%
0%
5
Between Areas
5%
5%
1%
Figure 4D
133354
DATE
PROJECT
Trip Assignment (2030)
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
Figure 4E
UT23-2414
09/19/2023
Judd Ln/Hoytsville Rd
1
2
4
5
7
10
8
11
13
14
15
NB I-80 Ramps/100 South
44
22
0
25
0
0
12
Hobson Ln/Hoytsville Rd
3
100 South/Main Street
0
37
0
84
66
155
6
Creamery Ln/Hoytsville Rd
9
Old Lincoln Hwy/SB I-80
Ramp
15
8
0
0
12
16
17
18
SB I-80 Ramps/100 South
0
22
0
0
0
0
25
Spring Canyon Rd/
Hoytsville Rd
0
2
121
0
221
5
SE Wanship Rd/Old Lincoln
Hwy
Old Lincoln Hwy/S.R. 32
WB I-80 Ramp/S.R. 32
8
162
3
0
0
88
EB I-80 Ramps/S.R. 32
140
22
0
88
1
2
3
4
6
7
8
9
10
76
0
0
22
0
12
0
Old Lincoln Hwy/West
Hoytsville Rd
11
12
13
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
32
34
23
20
143
5
107
0
0
0
121
0
221
0
0
0
170
0
91
8
0
0
0
15
0
0
0
15
0
0
0
0
155
0
0
83
8
43
30
24
127
20
150
54
37
31
126
25
116
Access 1/Hoytsville Rd
Access 2/Hoytsville Rd
Morning
Peak Hour
30
21
17
149
9
82
Access 3/Hoytsville Rd
Access 4/Creamery Ln
3
29
1
2
0
10
7
0
18
7
13
5
Access 5/Creamery Ln
6
4
2
3
0
13
10
0
16
8
9
5
19
Access 6/Creamery Ln
18
3
13
7
148
38
9
78
36
60
3
61
16
15
14
19
5
17
18
134355
DATE
PROJECT
Trip Assignment (2030)
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
Figure 4F
UT23-2414
09/19/2023
Judd Ln/Hoytsville Rd
1
2
4
5
7
10
8
11
13
14
15
NB I-80 Ramps/100 South
37
21
0
48
0
0
28
Hobson Ln/Hoytsville Rd
3
100 South/Main Street
0
76
0
190
58
138
6
Creamery Ln/Hoytsville Rd
9
Old Lincoln Hwy/SB I-80
Ramp
14
19
0
0
12
16
17
18
SB I-80 Ramps/100 South
0
21
0
0
0
0
48
Spring Canyon Rd/
Hoytsville Rd
0
6
266
0
196
3
SE Wanship Rd/Old Lincoln
Hwy
Old Lincoln Hwy/S.R. 32
WB I-80 Ramp/S.R. 32
9
149
10
0
0
200
EB I-80 Ramps/S.R. 32
128
21
0
200
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
172
0
0
21
0
28
0
Old Lincoln Hwy/West
Hoytsville Rd
11
12
13
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
32
34
22
44
156
28
188
0
0
0
266
0
196
0
0
0
158
0
210
19
0
0
0
14
0
0
0
14
0
0
0
0
144
0
0
191
19
38
26
54
206
39
184
49
33
65
167
48
174
Access 1/Hoytsville Rd
Access 2/Hoytsville Rd
Evening
Peak Hour
30
18
38
140
24
186
Access 3/Hoytsville Rd
Access 4/Creamery Ln
8
27
2
2
0
10
7
0
19
27
37
8
Access 5/Creamery Ln
14
10
4
4
0
8
7
0
19
26
9
11
19
Access 6/Creamery Ln
14
6
11
15
129
78
20
176
76
56
6
73
16
18
17
15
14
19
135356
DATE
PROJECT
Trip Distribution (2040)
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
UT23-2414
11/03/2023
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
10%
35%
10%
27%
2%
5%
2%
Between Areas
5%
1%
3%
Figure 4G
136357
DATE
PROJECT
Trip Assignment (2040)
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
Figure 4H
UT23-2414
09/19/2023
Judd Ln/Hoytsville Rd
1
2
4
5
7
10
8
11
13
14
15
NB I-80 Ramps/100 South
89
93
25
267
0
0
51
Hobson Ln/Hoytsville Rd
3
100 South/Main Street
0
99
0
179
182
324
6
Creamery Ln/Hoytsville Rd
9
Old Lincoln Hwy/SB I-80
Ramp
28
15
0
0
12
16
17
18
SB I-80 Ramps/100 South
0
93
0
0
0
0
48
Spring Canyon Rd/
Hoytsville Rd
5
3
286
0
449
6
SE Wanship Rd/Old Lincoln
Hwy
Old Lincoln Hwy/S.R. 32
WB I-80 Ramp/S.R. 32
19
297
11
0
0
163
EB I-80 Ramps/S.R. 32
250
47
0
163
1
2
3
4
6
7
8
9
10
138
0
0
47
0
25
0
Old Lincoln Hwy/West
Hoytsville Rd
11
12
13
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
32
40
25
29
292
7
229
0
11
0
278
19
506
0
0
0
316
0
174
15
0
0
0
28
0
0
0
28
0
0
0
0
288
0
0
159
15
43
30
44
283
20
292
Access 1/Hoytsville Rd
Access 2/Hoytsville Rd
Morning
Peak Hour
40
29
26
287
17
157
Access 3/Hoytsville Rd
Access 4/Creamery Ln
3
32
1
3
0
15
8
0
18
10
21
5
Access 5/Creamery Ln
6
7
3
4
0
13
8
0
16
11
16
5
19
Access 6/Creamery Ln
102
5
50
33
247
55
81
151
57
106
13
126
54
0
37
25
232
12
35
265
13
26
0
19
20
55
23
290
27
181
Access 7/Hoytsville Rd
16
23
84
29
257
32
441
Access 10/Hoytsville Rd
13
21
Access 8/Spring Canyon
Rd
2
0
4
1
3
0
22
Access 9/Spring Canyon
Rd
0
0
2
1
0
0
22
21
23
20
16
17
18
15
14
19
5
137358
DATE
PROJECT
Trip Assignment (2040)
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
Figure 4I
UT23-2414
09/19/2023
Judd Ln/Hoytsville Rd
1
2
4
5
7
10
8
11
13
14
15
NB I-80 Ramps/100 South
80
86
0
106
0
0
114
Hobson Ln/Hoytsville Rd
3
100 South/Main Street
0
220
0
396
166
291
6
Creamery Ln/Hoytsville Rd
9
Old Lincoln Hwy/SB I-80
Ramp
24
35
0
0
12
16
17
18
SB I-80 Ramps/100 South
0
86
0
0
0
0
106
Spring Canyon Rd/
Hoytsville Rd
21
12
564
12
398
35
SE Wanship Rd/Old Lincoln
Hwy
Old Lincoln Hwy/S.R. 32
WB I-80 Ramp/S.R. 32
17
267
24
0
0
362
EB I-80 Ramps/S.R. 32
225
42
0
362
1
2
3
7
8
9
10
305
0
0
42
0
57
0
Old Lincoln Hwy/West
Hoytsville Rd
11
12
13
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
32
40
29
55
325
30
364
0
24
0
616
17
440
0
0
0
284
0
386
35
0
0
0
24
0
0
0
24
0
0
0
0
260
0
0
351
35
45
30
65
424
45
373
Access 1/Hoytsville Rd
Access 2/Hoytsville Rd
Evening
Peak Hour
35
25
48
259
30
356
Access 3/Hoytsville Rd
Access 4/Creamery Ln
9
34
4
5
0
12
10
0
23
30
45
10
Access 5/Creamery Ln
16
15
5
5
0
12
10
0
20
33
9
18
19
Access 6/Hoytsville Road
60
10
43
45
308
65
105
371
100
65
10
75
55
15
35
50
328
26
75
334
45
35
15
11
20
38
28
279
75
356
Access 7/Hoytsville Rd
35
23
58
27
549
91
399
Access 10/Hoytsville Rd
20
21
Access 8/Spring Canyon
Rd
14
28
15
0
19
0
22
Access 9/Spring Canyon
Rd
2
19
9
0
0
0
4
6
22
21
23
20
5
19
14
15
18
17
16
138359
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 25 
  
Creamery Lane: 
• Access 4 will be located approximately 1,100 feet west of the Creamery Lane / 
Hoytsville Road intersection. It will access the pr oject on the north and south side of 
Creamery Lane. It is anticipated that the access will be stop-controlled. 
• Access 5 will be located approximately 1,900 feet west of the Creamery Lane / 
Hoytsville Road intersection. It will access the pr oject on the north and south side of 
Creamery Lane. It is anticipated that the access will be stop-controlled. 
Spring Canyon Road: 
• Access 8 will be located approximately 900 feet ea st of the Spring Canyon Road / 
Hoytsville Road intersection. It will access the pr oject on the north side of Spring 
Canyon Road. It is anticipated that the access will be stop-controlled. 
• Access 9 will be located approximately 3,300 feet east of the Spring Canyon Road / 
Hoytsville Road intersection. It will access the pr oject on the north side of Spring 
Canyon Road. It is anticipated that the access will be stop-controlled. 
F. Auxiliary Lanes 
Auxiliary lanes are deceleration (ingress) or acceleration (egress) turn lanes that provide for safe 
turning movements that have less impact on through traffic. These lanes are sometimes needed 
at accesses or roadway intersections if right- or left-turn volumes are high enough.  
Deceleration (ingress) lanes are generally needed w hen there are at least 50 right-turn vehicles 
or 25 left-turn vehicles in an hour. These guidelin es were used for the County roadways in the 
study area. 
Due to low through traffic volumes on Hoytsville Ro ad, it is anticipated that auxiliary lanes will 
have little benefit and are therefore not recommend ed until the future (2040) analysis where the 
following deceleration lanes are recommended: 
• Access 1 / Hoytsville Road: Northbound left-turn a nd southbound right-turn 
• Access 2 / Hoytsville Road: Northbound left-turn a nd southbound right-turn 
• Access 3 / Hoytsville Road: Northbound left-turn 
• Access 6 / Hoytsville Road: Northbound and southbo und left- and right-turn 
• Access 7 / Hoytsville Road: Southbound left-turn 
• Access 10 / Hoytsville Road: Southbound left-turn 
• Spring Canyon Road: Southbound left-turn 
• Creamery Lane / Hoytsville Road: Northbound left-t urn and southbound right-turn 
It is worth noting that the left-turn lanes on acce sses spaced closely to one another could be 
accommodated with a center two-way left-turn lane (TWLTL). 
139360
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 26 
  
G. Functional Classification 
New roadways throughout the development are classif ied as connectors and local roads. A 
functional classification map with these roadways i s provided in Appendix E. As shown, several 
connector streets are planned to run parallel to Hoytsville Road. It is anticipated that these roads 
will serve as alternative routes and could help reduce traffic on Hoytsville Road.  
H. Active Transportation 
There are several proposed trails throughout the development. Two of these trails are anticipated 
to intersect Hoysville Road. The southern trail wil l intersect Hoytsille Road at the approximately 
the Access 2 / Hoytsville Road intersection. It is recommended that a crosswalk be installed at 
this location to provide a safe crossing on Hoytsville Road. To maximize safety for pedestrians, it 
is recommended that the project and County consider  additional safety treatments such as 
rectangular rapid flashing beacons (RRFBs) at the crossing. 
The northern trail will intersect Hoytsville Road b etween Spring Canyon Road and Access 6. 
Since this crossing is not at an intersection, additional safety measures might be needed. These 
could include a midblock crosswalk with curb extens ions, RRFBs, and / or a pedestrian refuge 
island. Alternatively, the northern trail could be diverted to the Access 6 / Hoytsville Road 
intersection. 
  
140361
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 27 
  
V.  FUTURE (2025) PLUS PROJECT CONDITIONS 
A. Purpose 
The purpose of the future (2025) plus project analysis is to study the intersections and roadways 
during the peak travel periods of the day for existing background traffic and geometric conditions 
plus the net trips generated by the proposed development. This scenario provides valuable insight 
into the potential impacts of the proposed project on background traffic conditions. 
B. Traffic Volumes 
Hales Engineering added the project trips discussed in Chapter III to the future (2025) background 
traffic volumes to predict turning movement volumes  for future (2025) plus project conditions. 
Future (2025) plus project morning and evening peak hour turning movement volumes are shown 
in Figure 5. 
C. Level of Service Analysis 
Hales Engineering determined that all intersections are anticipated to operate at acceptable levels 
of service during the morning and evening peak hour s with project traffic added, as shown in 
Table 9. 
D. Queuing Analysis 
Hales Engineering calculated the 95 th  percentile queue lengths for each of the study intersections. 
No significant queueing is anticipated during the morning and evening peak hours.  
E. Mitigation Measures 
No mitigation measures are recommended. 
  
141362
DATE
PROJECT
Future (2025) Plus Project
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
Figure 5A
UT23-2414
09/19/2023
Judd Ln/Hoytsville Rd
1
2
4
5
7
10
8
11
13
14
15
NB I-80 Ramps/100 South
45
234
20
162
15
0
88
Hobson Ln/Hoytsville Rd
3
100 South/Main Street
200
50
210
81
69
166
6
Creamery Ln/Hoytsville Rd
9
Old Lincoln Hwy/SB I-80
Ramp
33
22
95
5
12
SB I-80 Ramps/100 South
35
214
40
25
15
5
142
Spring Canyon Rd/
Hoytsville Rd
20
10
81
25
110
10
SE Wanship Rd/Old Lincoln
Hwy
Old Lincoln Hwy/S.R. 32
WB I-80 Ramp/S.R. 32
17
265
10
30
35
68
EB I-80 Ramps/S.R. 32
126
149
85
103
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
70
0
50
119
30
118
50
Old Lincoln Hwy/West
Hoytsville Rd
11
12
13
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
32
8
10
14
82
10
53
35
5
15
101
5
155
20
5
10
102
5
48
22
5
10
5
23
5
5
5
118
5
5
55
5
109
5
20
46
12
14
15
18
18
11
70
10
57
17
18
10
78
11
50
Access 1/Hoytsville Rd
Access 2/Hoytsville Rd
Morning
Peak Hour
142363
DATE
PROJECT
Future (2025) Plus Project
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
Figure 5B
UT23-2414
09/19/2023
Judd Ln/Hoytsville Rd
1
2
4
5
7
10
8
11
13
14
15
NB I-80 Ramps/100 South
106
129
15
97
10
5
230
Hobson Ln/Hoytsville Rd
3
100 South/Main Street
230
97
160
143
75
140
6
Creamery Ln/Hoytsville Rd
9
Old Lincoln Hwy/SB I-80
Ramp
33
34
75
10
12
SB I-80 Ramps/100 South
35
104
40
25
20
5
72
Spring Canyon Rd/
Hoytsville Rd
15
5
120
15
135
10
SE Wanship Rd/Old Lincoln
Hwy
Old Lincoln Hwy/S.R. 32
WB I-80 Ramp/S.R. 32
11
183
13
40
15
136
EB I-80 Ramps/S.R. 32
104
104
60
171
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
126
5
100
84
20
105
50
Old Lincoln Hwy/West
Hoytsville Rd
11
12
13
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
32
10
10
19
114
10
119
20
10
35
155
15
145
10
5
15
74
10
119
34
10
5
5
28
5
15
5
88
5
5
35
5
66
5
40
95
24
14
15
23
18
28
122
24
102
22
20
27
113
25
104
Access 1/Hoytsville Rd
Access 2/Hoytsville Rd
Evening
Peak Hour
143364
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 30 
  
Table 9: Future (2025) Plus Project Peak Hour LOS 
Intersection LOS (Sec. Delay / Veh.) / Movement 1 
Description Control Morning Peak  Evening Peak  
SB I-80 Ramps / Icy Spring Road & 100 South SB Stop  a (9.1) / SBL a (5.7) / SBL 
NB I-80 On & Off Ramps / 100 South NB Stop a (6.2) / NBL a (6.0) / NBT 
100 South / Main Street EB Stop b (14.1) / EBL b (1 2.2) / EBL 
Hobson Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (5.0) / EBL  a (5.2) / EBL 
Spring Canyon Road / Hoytsville Road WB Stop a (5.3 ) / WBL a (6.0) / WBL 
Creamery Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (4.5) / E BL a (5.0) / EBL 
Judd Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (4.4) / EBL a  (5.0) / EBL 
SE Wanship Road / Old Lincoln Highway NB Stop a (3. 8) / NBL a (4.0) / NBL 
Old Lincoln Highway / SB I-80 Off Ramp SB Stop a (3 .9) / SWL a (4.1) / SWL 
Old Lincoln Highway / West Hoytsville Road EB/WB St op a (6.4) / EBT a (7.7) / EBT 
Old Lincoln Highway / S.R. 32 EB Stop b (11.4) / EB T a (9.4) / EBT 
WB I-80 On Ramp / S.R. 32 - a (3.5) / NBL a (3.2) /  NBL 
EB I-80 On & Off Ramps / S.R. 32 EB Stop a (6.0) / EBL a (7.1) / EBT 
Access 1 / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (4.4) / EBL a (5.4) / EBL 
Access 2 / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (4.8) / EBL a (5.2) / EBL 
1. Movement indicated for unsignalized intersections where delay and LOS represents worst movement. SBL = Southbound left movement, etc. 
2. Uppercase LOS used for signalized, roundabout, and AWSC intersections. Lowercase LOS used for all other unsignalized intersections. 
Source: Hales Engineering, April 2024  
  
144365
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 31 
  
VI.  FUTURE (2030) PLUS PROJECT CONDITIONS 
A. Purpose 
The purpose of the future (2030) plus project analysis is to study the intersections and roadways 
during the peak travel periods of the day for futur e background traffic and geometric conditions 
plus the net trips generated by the proposed development. This scenario provides valuable insight 
into the potential impacts of the proposed project on future background traffic conditions. 
B. Traffic Volumes 
Hales Engineering estimated future (2030) backgroun d volumes using the same 1.5% annual 
growth rate assumed previously. Hales Engineering t hen added the project trips discussed in 
Chapter III to the future (2030) background traffic volumes to predict turning movement volumes 
for future (2030) plus project conditions. Future ( 2030) plus project morning and evening peak 
hour turning movement volumes are shown in Figure 6. 
C. Level of Service Analysis 
Hales Engineering determined that the 100 South / M ain Street and NB I-80 On & Off-Ramps 
intersections are anticipated to operate at a poor LOS during the morning or evening peak hours 
in future (2030) plus project conditions, as shown in Table 10. 
D. Queuing Analysis 
Hales Engineering calculated the 95 th  percentile queue lengths for each of the study intersections. 
Some significant queueing is anticipated during the morning and evening peak hours. Significant 
95 th  percentile queue lengths during the morning and ev ening peak hour are summarized as 
follows: 
 
• 100 South / Main St: 
o Eastbound: 925’ (AM), >1,000’ (PM) 
 
 
E. Mitigation Measures 
It is anticipated that a signal will be warranted a t the 100 South / Main Street intersection, and it 
is recommended that one be installed. With the inst allation of a signal, it may be necessary to 
install a northbound left-turn lane and a southboun d right-turn lane. Additionally, the parking on 
the east side of Main Street will likely need to be removed through the intersection. 
  
145366
DATE
PROJECT
Future (2030) Plus Project
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
Figure 6A
UT23-2414
09/20/2023
Judd Ln/Hoytsville Rd
1
2
4
5
7
10
8
11
13
14
15
NB I-80 Ramps/100 South
161
334
20
219
20
5
126
Hobson Ln/Hoytsville Rd
3
100 South/Main Street
215
130
225
160
270
323
6
Creamery Ln/Hoytsville Rd
9
Old Lincoln Hwy/SB I-80
Ramp
45
28
100
5
12
16
17
18
SB I-80 Ramps/100 South
40
314
40
30
15
5
199
Spring Canyon Rd/
Hoytsville Rd
25
12
186
25
301
15
SE Wanship Rd/Old Lincoln
Hwy
Old Lincoln Hwy/S.R. 32
WB I-80 Ramp/S.R. 32
23
412
13
30
35
143
EB I-80 Ramps/S.R. 32
250
172
90
178
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
136
5
50
142
30
132
50
Old Lincoln Hwy/West
Hoytsville Rd
11
12
13
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
32
39
33
30
193
15
177
35
5
20
260
5
513
20
5
10
245
5
126
28
5
10
5
35
5
5
5
135
5
5
60
5
240
5
20
113
18
14
15
43
30
24
187
20
225
54
37
31
186
25
191
Access 1/Hoytsville Rd
Access 2/Hoytsville Rd
16
Morning
Peak Hour
30
21
17
209
9
162
Access 3/Hoytsville Rd
Access 4/Creamery Ln
3
44
1
2
0
10
7
0
18
7
33
5
Access 5/Creamery Ln
6
19
2
3
0
13
10
0
16
8
29
5
19
Access 6/Creamery Ln
18
3
13
7
223
38
9
138
36
60
3
61
19
17
18
146367
DATE
PROJECT
Future (2030) Plus Project
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
Figure 6B
UT23-2414
09/20/2023
Judd Ln/Hoytsville Rd
1
2
4
5
7
10
8
11
13
14
15
NB I-80 Ramps/100 South
190
199
15
224
10
5
349
Hobson Ln/Hoytsville Rd
3
100 South/Main Street
250
323
170
325
219
269
6
Creamery Ln/Hoytsville Rd
9
Old Lincoln Hwy/SB I-80
Ramp
44
49
80
10
12
16
17
18
SB I-80 Ramps/100 South
35
174
45
25
25
5
194
Spring Canyon Rd/
Hoytsville Rd
15
11
336
15
296
13
SE Wanship Rd/Old Lincoln
Hwy
Old Lincoln Hwy/S.R. 32
WB I-80 Ramp/S.R. 32
19
314
20
40
15
300
EB I-80 Ramps/S.R. 32
208
126
65
340
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
267
5
105
106
20
138
50
Old Lincoln Hwy/West
Hoytsville Rd
11
12
13
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
32
39
32
59
241
38
268
20
10
35
558
15
417
10
5
20
198
10
290
49
10
5
5
39
5
15
5
104
5
5
35
5
179
5
40
251
39
14
15
38
26
54
306
39
269
49
33
65
267
48
259
Access 1/Hoytsville Rd
Access 2/Hoytsville Rd
16
Evening
Peak Hour
30
18
38
235
24
276
Access 3/Hoytsville Rd
Access 4/Creamery Ln
8
42
2
2
0
10
7
0
19
27
62
8
Access 5/Creamery Ln
14
25
4
4
0
8
7
0
19
26
34
11
19
Access 6/Creamery Ln
14
6
11
15
214
78
20
276
76
56
6
73
19
17
18
147368
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 34 
  
Table 10: Future (2030) Plus Project Peak Hour LOS 
Intersection LOS (Sec. Delay / Veh.) / Movement 1 
Description Control Morning Peak  Evening Peak  
SB I-80 Ramps / Icy Spring Road & 100 South SB Stop  b (13.2) / SBL a (8.0) / SBT 
NB I-80 On & Off Ramps / 100 South NB Stop b (14.5)  / EBL f (>50) / NBT 
100 South / Main Street EB Stop f (>50) / EBL f (>5 0) / EBL 
Hobson Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (9.9) / EBL  b (13.7) / EBL 
Spring Canyon Road / Hoytsville Road WB Stop a (7.1 ) / WBL a (8.6) / WBL 
Creamery Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (6.3) / E BL a (8.3) / EBL 
Judd Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (5.6) / EBL a  (6.0) / EBL 
SE Wanship Road / Old Lincoln Highway NB Stop a (4. 1) / NBL a (4.3) / NBL 
Old Lincoln Highway / SB I-80 Off Ramp SB Stop a (5 .1) / SWL a (4.6) / SWL 
Old Lincoln Highway / West Hoytsville Road EB/WB St op a (8.3) / WBL a (9.3) / WBL 
Old Lincoln Highway / S.R. 32 EB Stop c (16.9) / EB T c (18.6) / EBT 
WB I-80 On Ramp / S.R. 32 - a (5.7) / NBL a (4.3) /  NBL 
EB I-80 On & Off Ramps / S.R. 32 EB Stop a (9.2) / EBT b (10.6) / EBT 
Access 1 / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (6.6) / EBL a (9.2) / EBL 
Access 2 / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (7.4) / EBL a (9.3) / EBL 
Access 3 / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (6.3) / EBL a (7.3) / EBL 
Access 4 /Creamery Lane NB/SB Stop a (5.0) / NBL a (4.3) / SBL 
Access 5 / Creamery Lane NB/SB Stop a (4.7) / NBL a  (4.5) / NBL 
Access 6 / Hoytsville Road EB/WB Stop b (11.9) / WB T c (16.3) / WBT 
1. Movement indicated for unsignalized intersections where delay and LOS represents worst movement. SBL = Southbound left movement, etc. 
2. Uppercase LOS used for signalized, roundabout, and AWSC intersections. Lowercase LOS used for all other unsignalized intersections. 
Source: Hales Engineering, April 2024  
F. Mitigated Scenario 
Hales Engineering ran a mitigated scenario assuming the recommended mitigation measures had 
been implemented. With the proposed improvement, it  is anticipated that all study intersections 
will operate at acceptable levels of service, as shown in Table 11.  
Additionally, a roundabout was also considered at this intersection instead of a signal at the 100 
South / Main Street intersection. As a result, it is anticipated that the intersection would continue 
148369
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 35 
  
to operate at a poor level of service as a roundabout. Significant northbound queues of over 1,000 
ft would also be anticipated. Therefore, a roundabout is not recommended at this intersection. 
Table 11: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project Peak Hour LOS 
Intersection LOS (Sec. Delay / Veh.) / Movement 1 
Description Control Morning Peak  Evening Peak  
SB I-80 Ramps / Icy Spring Road & 100 South SB Stop  b (14.0) / SBT a (8.2) / SBL 
NB I-80 On & Off Ramps / 100 South NB Stop a (9.8) / NBT b (11.0) / NBT 
100 South / Main Street Signal A (9.7) B (10.3) 
Hobson Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (9.1) / EBL  b (13.1) / EBL 
Spring Canyon Road / Hoytsville Road WB Stop a (7.0 ) / WBL a (9.0) / WBL 
Creamery Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (6.3) / E BL a (8.3) / EBL 
Judd Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (5.7) / EBL a  (7.6) / EBL 
SE Wanship Road / Old Lincoln Highway NB Stop a (4. 0) / NBL a (4.4) / NBL 
Old Lincoln Highway / SB I-80 Off Ramp SB Stop a (5 .2) / SWL a (4.4) / SWL 
Old Lincoln Highway / West Hoytsville Road EB/WB St op a (8.6) / WBT a (9.7) / WBL 
Old Lincoln Highway / S.R. 32 EB Stop c (16.3) / EB T c (15.5) / EBT 
WB I-80 On Ramp / S.R. 32 - a (5.7) / NBL a (4.6) /  NBL 
EB I-80 On & Off Ramps / S.R. 32 EB Stop a (8.0) / EBT b (13.1) / EBT 
Access 1 / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (6.9) / EBL a (9.3) / EBL 
Access 2 / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (7.7) / EBL b (11.2) / EBL 
Access 3 / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (6.2) / EBL a (7.1) / EBL 
Access 4 /Creamery Lane NB/SB Stop a (4.3) / SBL a (4.3) / SBL 
Access 5 / Creamery Lane NB/SB Stop a (4.5) / SBL a  (4.3) / SBL 
Access 6 / Hoytsville Road EB/WB Stop a (8.1) / WBL  b (14.3) / EBT 
1. Movement indicated for unsignalized intersections where delay and LOS represents worst movement. SBL = Southbound left movement, etc. 
2. Uppercase LOS used for signalized, roundabout, and AWSC intersections. Lowercase LOS used for all other unsignalized intersections. 
Source: Hales Engineering, April 2024  
  
149370
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 36 
  
VII.  FUTURE (2040) PLUS PROJECT CONDITIONS 
A. Purpose 
The purpose of the future (2040) plus project analysis is to study the intersections and roadways 
during the peak travel periods of the day for futur e background traffic and geometric conditions 
plus the net trips generated by the proposed development. This scenario provides valuable insight 
into the potential impacts of the proposed project on future background traffic conditions. 
B. Traffic Volumes 
Hales Engineering estimated future (2040) backgroun d volumes using the same 1.5% annual 
growth rate assumed previously. Hales Engineering t hen added the project trips discussed in 
Chapter III to the future (2040) background traffic volumes to predict turning movement volumes 
for future (2040) plus project conditions. Future ( 2040) plus project morning and evening peak 
hour turning movement volumes are shown in Figure 7. 
C. Level of Service Analysis 
Hales Engineering determined that multiple intersections are anticipated to operate at poor levels 
of service during the morning and evening peak hours in future (2040) plus project conditions, as 
shown in Table 12. 
D. Queuing Analysis 
Hales Engineering calculated the 95 th  percentile queue lengths for each of the study intersections. 
Some significant queueing is anticipated during the morning and evening peak hours. Significant 
95 th  percentile queue lengths during the morning and ev ening peak hour are summarized as 
follows: 
 
• SB I-80 Ramps / 100 South: 
o Southbound: 250’ (AM), 200’ (PM) 
 
• Hobson Ln / Hoytsville Rd: 
o Northbound: 275’ (PM) 
 
• 100 South / Main St: 
o Northbound: 600’ (AM), 625’ (PM) 
o Eastbound: 900’ (PM) 
 
• EB I-80 Ramps / S.R. 32: 
o Eastbound: 375’ (PM) 
 
  150371
DATE
PROJECT
Future (2040) Plus Project
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
Figure 7A
UT23-2414
09/19/2023
Judd Ln/Hoytsville Rd
1
2
4
5
7
10
8
11
13
14
15
NB I-80 Ramps/100 South
211
450
25
267
20
5
180
Hobson Ln/Hoytsville Rd
3
100 South/Main Street
245
202
265
265
396
517
6
Creamery Ln/Hoytsville Rd
9
Old Lincoln Hwy/SB I-80
Ramp
63
35
120
5
12
16
17
18
SB I-80 Ramps/100 South
45
425
50
35
20
5
242
Spring Canyon Rd/
Hoytsville Rd
30
18
361
30
544
16
SE Wanship Rd/Old Lincoln
Hwy
Old Lincoln Hwy/S.R. 32
WB I-80 Ramp/S.R. 32
39
587
21
35
40
228
EB I-80 Ramps/S.R. 32
375
222
105
268
1
2
3
4
7
8
9
10
208
5
60
187
35
165
60
Old Lincoln Hwy/West
Hoytsville Rd
11
12
13
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
32
50
35
39
352
17
314
40
5
20
427
5
818
20
5
15
401
5
214
35
5
10
5
53
5
10
5
168
5
5
70
5
388
5
25
194
25
43
30
44
353
20
387
Access 1/Hoytsville Rd
Access 2/Hoytsville Rd
Morning
Peak Hour
40
29
26
357
17
252
Access 3/Hoytsville Rd
Access 4/Creamery Ln
3
52
1
3
0
15
8
0
18
10
41
5
Access 5/Creamery Ln
3
52
1
3
0
15
8
0
16
11
36
5
19
Access 6/Creamery Ln
102
5
50
33
342
55
81
221
57
106
13
126
54
0
37
25
327
12
35
335
13
26
0
19
20
55
23
360
27
276
Access 7/Hoytsville Rd
16
23
84
29
400
32
739
Access 10/Hoytsville Rd
13
21
Access 8/Spring Canyon
Rd
63
0
4
1
40
0
22
Access 9/Spring Canyon
Rd
0
0
2
1
0
0
5
6
14
15
16
17
18
20
22
21
23
19
151372
DATE
PROJECT
Future (2040) Plus Project
Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
N
Figure 7B
UT23-2414
09/19/2023
Judd Ln/Hoytsville Rd
1
2
4
5
7
10
8
11
13
14
15
NB I-80 Ramps/100 South
248
289
20
297
15
5
470
Hobson Ln/Hoytsville Rd
3
100 South/Main Street
285
482
200
546
337
437
6
Creamery Ln/Hoytsville Rd
9
Old Lincoln Hwy/SB I-80
Ramp
59
65
95
10
12
16
17
18
SB I-80 Ramps/100 South
40
264
55
30
25
5
262
Spring Canyon Rd/
Hoytsville Rd
41
17
644
27
513
50
SE Wanship Rd/Old Lincoln
Hwy
Old Lincoln Hwy/S.R. 32
WB I-80 Ramp/S.R. 32
27
457
34
45
20
477
EB I-80 Ramps/S.R. 32
320
167
75
522
1
2
3
4
8
9
10
415
5
125
142
25
182
60
Old Lincoln Hwy/West
Hoytsville Rd
11
12
13
Hoytsville Rd
100 South
Old Lincoln Hwy
W Hoytsville Rd
32
50
39
70
425
40
459
20
34
40
923
32
672
10
5
20
329
10
476
65
10
5
5
54
5
20
5
129
5
5
40
5
300
5
45
421
55
45
30
65
539
45
478
Access 1/Hoytsville Rd
Access 2/Hoytsville Rd
Evening
Peak Hour
35
25
48
369
30
461
Access 3/Hoytsville Rd
Access 4/Creamery Ln
9
54
4
5
0
12
10
0
23
30
70
10
Access 5/Creamery Ln
16
35
5
5
0
12
10
0
20
33
34
18
19
Access 6/Hoytsville Road
60
10
43
45
413
65
105
486
100
65
10
75
55
15
35
50
433
26
75
449
45
35
15
11
20
38
28
389
75
461
Access 7/Hoytsville Rd
35
23
58
27
866
91
646
Access 10/Hoytsville Rd
20
21
Access 8/Spring Canyon
Rd
29
28
15
0
34
0
22
Access 9/Spring Canyon
Rd
2
19
9
0
0
0
5
6
14
15
16
17
18
20
22
21
23
19
7
152373
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 39 
  
Table 12: Future (2040) Plus Project Peak Hour LOS 
Intersection LOS (Sec. Delay / Veh.) / Movement 1 
Description Control Morning Peak  Evening Peak  
SB I-80 Ramps / Icy Spring Road & 100 South SB Stop  d (33.3) / SBT b (14.3) / SBT 
NB I-80 On & Off Ramps / 100 South NB Stop b (14.0)  / NBT b (11.7) / NBT 
100 South / Main Street Signal C (22.0) D (47.3) 
Hobson Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop c (18.3) / EB L f (>50) / EBL 
Spring Canyon Road / Hoytsville Road WB Stop b (14. 6) / WBL d (26.4) / WBL 
Creamery Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop b (11.4) / EBL b (14.0) / EBL 
Judd Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (7.4) / EBL a  (8.2) / EBL 
SE Wanship Road / Old Lincoln Highway NB Stop a (3. 8) / NBL a (5.1) / NBL 
Old Lincoln Highway / SB I-80 Off Ramp SB Stop a (4 .8) / SWL a (4.7) / SWL 
Old Lincoln Highway / West Hoytsville Road EB/WB St op b (14.7) / WBL c (19.3) / WBL 
Old Lincoln Highway / S.R. 32 EB Stop e (44.2) / EB T e (47.6) / EBT 
WB I-80 On Ramp / S.R. 32 - a (9.5) / NBL a (7.2) /  NBL 
EB I-80 On & Off Ramps / S.R. 32 EB Stop b (12.7) /  EBT c (24.6) / EBL 
Access 1 / Hoytsville Road EB Stop b (12.9) / EBL c  (20.5) / EBL 
Access 2 / Hoytsville Road EB Stop b (11.9) / WBL d  (34.2) / EBL 
Access 3 / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (8.1) / EBL a (9.8) / EBL 
Access 4 /Creamery Lane NB/SB Stop a (5.3) / NBL a (4.8) / SBL 
Access 5 / Creamery Lane NB/SB Stop a (4.5) / NBL a  (4.9) / NBL 
Access 6 / Hoytsville Road EB/WB Stop c (23.9) / WB T e (39.9) / WBT 
Access 7 / Hoytsville Road WB Stop a (8.3) / WBL b (13.2) / WBL 
Access 8 / Spring Canyon Road SB Stop a (2.0) / SBR  a (1.9) / SBR 
Access 9 / Spring Canyon Road SB Stop a (2.8) / SBR  a (2.8) / SBR 
Access 10 / Hoytsville Road WB Stop c (19.6) / WBL e (36.7) / WBL 
1. Movement indicated for unsignalized intersections where delay and LOS represents worst movement. SBL = Southbound left movement, etc. 
2. Uppercase LOS used for signalized, roundabout, and AWSC intersections. Lowercase LOS used for all other unsignalized intersections. 
Source: Hales Engineering, April 2024  
 
153374
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 40 
  
E. Mitigation Measures 
The following mitigation measures are recommended: 
• SB I-80 Ramps / 100 South: 
o Install traffic signal 
o Install westbound left-turn and eastbound and sout hbound right-turn lanes 
• 100 South / Main Street: 
o Implement northbound permissive/protected left-tur n phasing 
o Implement eastbound right-turn signal timing overl ap 
• Hobson Lane / Hoytsville Road: 
o Install eastbound and southbound right-turn lanes and northbound left-turn lane 
• Spring Canyon Road / Hoytsville Road: 
o Install northbound and westbound right-turn lanes 
• Old Lincoln Highway / S.R. 32: 
o Install all-way stop control (AWSC) 
• EB I-80 Ramps / S.R. 32: 
o Install separate eastbound right-turn pocket 
• Access 2 / Hoytsville Road: 
o Install eastbound and westbound right-turn pockets  
• Access 6 / Hoytsville Road: 
o Install traffic signal 
o Install eastbound and westbound left- and right-tu rn lanes 
• Access 10 / Hoytsville Road: 
o Install westbound right-turn pocket 
F. Mitigated Scenario 
With the proposed improvements, it is anticipated t hat all study intersections will perform at 
acceptable levels of service during the morning and evening peak hour with the exception of the 
Hobson Lane / Hoytsville Road, Access 2 / Hoytsvill e Road, and Access 10 / Hoytsville Road 
intersections, as shown in Table 13. Little can be done to mitigate these remaining intersections 
as they do not warrant signalization. Drivers will learn to adapt and reroute. 
  
154375
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 41 
  
Table 13: Mitigated Future (2040) Plus Project Peak Hour LOS 
Intersection LOS (Sec. Delay / Veh.) / Movement 1 
Description Control Morning Peak  Evening Peak  
SB I-80 Ramps / Icy Spring Road & 100 South Signal B (12.1) A (9.2) 
NB I-80 On & Off Ramps / 100 South NB Stop c (15.3)  / NBT b (14.1) / NBT 
100 South / Main Street Signal B (16.8) C (22.3) 
Hobson Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop c (23.6) / EB L e (40.3) / EBL 
Spring Canyon Road / Hoytsville Road WB Stop b (12. 8) / WBL c (22.4) / WBL 
Creamery Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop b (11.0) / EBL b (14.0) / EBL 
Judd Lane / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (7.8) / EBL a  (9.3) / EBL 
SE Wanship Road / Old Lincoln Highway NB Stop a (4. 1) / NBL a (4.1) / NBL 
Old Lincoln Highway / SB I-80 Off Ramp SB Stop a (5 .2) / SWL a (4.9) / SWL 
Old Lincoln Highway / West Hoytsville Road EB/WB St op b (14.2) / EBT c (22.6) / WBL 
Old Lincoln Highway / S.R. 32 EB Stop B (10.3) A (7 .7) 
WB I-80 On Ramp / S.R. 32 - a (9.6) / NBL a (6.9) /  NBL 
EB I-80 On & Off Ramps / S.R. 32 EB Stop b (10.3) /  EBT c (16.1) / EBT 
Access 1 / Hoytsville Road EB Stop b (11.9) / EBL c  (23.2) / EBL 
Access 2 / Hoytsville Road EB Stop b (14.1) / EBL d  (28.1) / EBL 
Access 3 / Hoytsville Road EB Stop a (8.6) / EBL b (10.4) / EBL 
Access 4 /Creamery Lane NB/SB Stop a (5.5) / NBL a (4.8) / SBL 
Access 5 / Creamery Lane NB/SB Stop a (4.0) / SBL a  (4.5) / SBL 
Access 6 / Hoytsville Road Signal A (7.5) A (7.1) 
Access 7 / Hoytsville Road WB Stop a (9.2) / WBL b (14.1) / WBL 
Access 8 / Spring Canyon Road SB Stop a (1.8) / SBR  a (2.2) / SBR 
Access 9 / Spring Canyon Road SB Stop a (3.1) / SBR  a (2.7) / SBR 
Access 10 / Hoytsville Road WB Stop c (17.8) / WBL e (42.8) / WBL 
1. Movement indicated for unsignalized intersections where delay and LOS represents worst movement. SBL = Southbound left movement, etc. 
2. Uppercase LOS used for signalized, roundabout, and AWSC intersections. Lowercase LOS used for all other unsignalized intersections. 
Source: Hales Engineering, April 2024  
 
155376
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 42 
  
G. Recommended Storage Lengths 
Hales Engineering determined recommended storage lengths based on the 95 th  percentile queue 
lengths given in the future (2040) plus project scenario. These storage lengths do not include the 
taper length. Recommended storage lengths for the s tudy intersections are shown in Table 14. 
Intersections shown in Table 14 include new interse ctions and existing intersections that have 
recommended storage length changes. 
Table 14: Recommended Storage Lengths 
 
 
 
156377
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
APPENDIX A 
Turning Movement Counts 
  
157378
2364 North 1450 East 
Lehi, UT 84043 
801.636.0891 
Intersection: SB I-80 On and Off Ramp / Icy Springs Road Date: 8-23-23, Wed 
North/South: SB I-80 On and Off Ramp Day of Week Adjustment: 100.0% 
East/West: Icy Springs Road Month of Year Adjustment: 100.0% 
Jurisdiction: Hoytsville Adjustment Station #: 309 
Project  Title: Master Plan TS Growth Rate: 0.0% 
Project No: UT23-2414 Number of Years: 0
Weather: Clear 
AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:00 AM-8:00 AM 
AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 7:15 AM-7:30 AM 75 
AM PHF: 0.69 
143 
-
-
75 0
PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 4:45 PM-5:45 PM 142 1
PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 4:45 PM-5:00 PM 
PM PHF: 0.88 19 0 56 
0 12 1 129 
0 0
1
Icy Springs Road 
0 0
49 49 34 30 232 126 
106 108 0 1 198 96 395 217 
57 59 35 34 163 91 
22 24 
Icy Springs Road 
0
0 0 3 0 0
0 Legend 
0 0 0
AM 
223 3 Midday 
PM 
118 0
226 
118 Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds 
AM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
7:00 - 7:15 3 0 0 0 28 0 0 1 1 9 4 0 48 7 0 0 100 
7:15 - 7:30 0 0 0 0 61 1 4 0 0 9 7 0 68 8 0 0 158 
7:30 - 7:45 0 0 0 0 22 0 8 0 0 9 12 0 49 11 0 0 111 
7:45 - 8:00 0 0 0 0 18 0 0 0 0 7 1 0 33 8 0 0 67 
8:00 - 8:15 1 0 0 0 13 0 2 0 0 3 5 0 37 7 0 0 68 
8:15 - 8:30 0 0 0 0 14 0 8 0 0 9 7 0 25 5 0 0 68 
8:30 - 8:45 0 0 0 0 7 0 3 0 0 8 6 0 26 10 0 0 60 
8:45 - 9:00 0 0 0 0 7 1 4 0 0 5 7 0 24 4 0 0 52 
MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
9:00 - 9:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:15 - 9:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:30 - 9:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:45 - 10:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:00 - 10:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:15 - 10:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:30 - 10:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:45 - 11:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:00 - 11:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:15 - 11:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:30 - 11:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:45 - 12:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:00 - 12:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:15 - 12:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:30 - 12:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:45 - 13:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:00 - 13:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:15 - 13:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:30 - 13:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:45 - 14:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:00 - 14:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:15 - 14:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:30 - 14:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:45 - 15:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:00 - 15:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:15 - 15:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:30 - 15:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:45 - 16:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
PM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
16:00 - 16:15 0 0 0 0 10 0 2 0 0 2 4 0 22 3 0 0 43 
16:15 - 16:30 0 1 0 0 10 0 8 0 0 9 10 0 25 5 0 0 68 
16:30 - 16:45 0 0 0 0 10 0 2 0 0 4 5 0 19 9 0 0 49 
16:45 - 17:00 0 0 0 0 14 0 8 0 0 7 7 0 28 9 0 0 73 
17:00 - 17:15 0 0 0 0 16 0 4 0 0 8 6 0 9 10 0 0 53 
17:15 - 17:30 0 0 0 0 11 0 3 0 0 12 4 0 30 8 0 0 68 
17:30 - 17:45 0 0 0 0 15 0 4 0 0 8 5 0 29 3 0 0 64 
17:45 - 18:00 0 0 0 0 14 1 0 0 0 10 7 0 26 11 0 0 69 
Intersection Turning Movement Summary 
Northbound 
SB I-80 On and Off Ramp 
Southbound 
SB I-80 On and Off Ramp 
Eastbound 
SB I-80 On and Off Ramp 
SB I-80 On and Off Ramp 
Total Entering Vehicles 
436 
258 
MIDDAY PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PHF: 
Icy Springs Road Icy Springs Road 
Westbound TOTAL 
Period 
Period 
RAW COUNT 
SUMMARIES 
Period 
158379
2364 North 1450 East 
Lehi, UT 84043 
801.636.0891 
Intersection: NB I-80 On and Off Ramps / Icy Springs Road Date: 8-23-23, Wed 
North/South: NB I-80 On and Off Ramps Day of Week Adjustment: 100.0% 
East/West: Icy Springs Road Month of Year Adjustment: 100.0% 
Jurisdiction: Hoytsville Adjustment Station #: 309 
Project  Title: Master Plan TS Growth Rate: 0.0% 
Project No: UT23-2414 Number of Years: 0
Weather: Clear 
AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:00 AM-8:00 AM 
AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 7:15 AM-7:30 AM 105 
AM PHF: 0.68 
52 
-
-
0 105 
PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 5:00 PM-6:00 PM 0 52 
PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 5:15 PM-5:30 PM 
PM PHF: 0.86 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0
0
Icy Springs Road 
38 92 
119 230 216 110 255 202 
214 386 13 14 1 0 475 498 
95 156 82 142 220 296 
0 0
Icy Springs Road 
0
0 0 14 0 78 
0 Legend 
9 0 214 
AM 
1 92 Midday 
PM 
0 223 
93 
223 
Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds 
AM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
7:00 - 7:15 2 0 13 0 0 0 0 0 1 27 0 0 1 52 7 0 103 
7:15 - 7:30 5 0 29 0 0 0 0 0 4 69 0 0 0 71 8 0 186 
7:30 - 7:45 4 0 24 0 0 0 0 0 6 27 0 0 0 58 15 0 134 
7:45 - 8:00 3 0 12 0 0 0 0 0 3 19 0 0 0 35 8 0 80 
8:00 - 8:15 2 0 14 0 0 0 0 0 1 12 0 0 0 43 11 0 83 
8:15 - 8:30 1 0 12 0 0 0 0 0 3 19 0 0 0 28 4 0 67 
8:30 - 8:45 6 0 21 0 0 0 0 0 2 12 0 0 0 33 12 0 86 
8:45 - 9:00 1 0 20 0 0 0 0 0 1 8 0 0 0 27 13 0 70 
MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
9:00 - 9:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:15 - 9:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:30 - 9:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:45 - 10:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:00 - 10:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:15 - 10:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:30 - 10:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:45 - 11:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:00 - 11:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:15 - 11:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:30 - 11:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:45 - 12:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:00 - 12:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:15 - 12:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:30 - 12:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:45 - 13:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:00 - 13:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:15 - 13:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:30 - 13:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:45 - 14:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:00 - 14:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:15 - 14:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:30 - 14:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:45 - 15:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:00 - 15:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:15 - 15:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:30 - 15:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:45 - 16:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
PM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
16:00 - 16:15 2 0 34 0 0 0 0 0 1 16 0 0 0 30 25 0 108 
16:15 - 16:30 4 0 28 0 0 0 0 0 1 15 0 0 0 19 23 0 90 
16:30 - 16:45 0 0 39 0 0 0 0 0 3 15 0 0 0 34 43 0 134 
16:45 - 17:00 2 1 51 0 0 0 0 0 2 19 0 0 0 26 16 0 117 
17:00 - 17:15 1 0 29 0 0 0 0 0 3 24 0 0 0 18 31 0 106 
17:15 - 17:30 5 0 63 0 0 0 0 0 4 20 0 0 0 33 26 0 151 
17:30 - 17:45 1 0 60 0 0 0 0 0 2 20 0 0 0 27 14 0 124 
17:45 - 18:00 2 0 62 0 0 0 0 0 4 18 0 0 0 32 21 0 139 
Intersection Turning Movement Summary 
Northbound 
NB I-80 On and Off Ramps 
Southbound 
NB I-80 On and Off Ramps 
Eastbound 
NB I-80 On and Off Ramps 
NB I-80 On and Off Ramps 
Total Entering Vehicles 
503 
520 
MIDDAY PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PHF: 
Icy Springs Road Icy Springs Road 
Westbound TOTAL 
Period 
Period 
RAW COUNT 
SUMMARIES 
Period 
159380
2364 North 1450 East 
Lehi, UT 84043 
801.636.0891 
Intersection: Main Street / 100 South Date: 1-4-23, Wed 
North/South: Main Street Day of Week Adjustment: 100.0% 
East/West: 100 South Month of Year Adjustment: 100.0% 
Jurisdiction: Hoytsville Adjustment Station #: 309 
Project  Title: Master Plan TS Growth Rate: 0.0% 
Project No: UT23-2414 Number of Years: 0
Weather: Clear 
AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:00 AM-8:00 AM 
AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 7:30 AM-7:45 AM 591 
AM PHF: 0.71 
549 
-
-
296 295 
PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 4:30 PM-5:30 PM 226 323 
PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 5:15 PM-5:30 PM 
PM PHF: 0.97 163 133 0
3 164 62 0
0 0
0
100 South 
0 0
227 206 0 0 0 0
476 437 191 190 0 0 1 0
249 231 0 1 1 0
58 40 
100 South 
0
0 0 42 133 0
0 Legend 
64 104 0
AM 
102 175 Midday 
PM 
191 168 
277 
359 Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds 
AM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
7:00 - 7:15 10 18 0 0 0 7 41 0 24 1 8 0 0 0 0 0 109 
7:15 - 7:30 12 26 0 0 0 13 45 0 50 0 6 0 0 0 0 0 152 
7:30 - 7:45 12 66 0 0 0 16 47 0 75 0 5 0 0 0 0 0 221 
7:45 - 8:00 8 23 0 0 0 26 31 0 41 0 21 0 0 0 0 0 150 
8:00 - 8:15 9 23 0 0 0 10 29 0 20 0 5 0 0 0 0 0 96 
8:15 - 8:30 4 9 0 0 0 7 28 0 19 0 5 0 0 0 0 0 72 
8:30 - 8:45 5 7 0 0 0 4 24 0 29 0 10 0 0 0 0 0 79 
8:45 - 9:00 13 19 0 0 0 15 20 0 26 0 6 0 0 0 0 0 99 
MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
9:00 - 9:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:15 - 9:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:30 - 9:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:45 - 10:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:00 - 10:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:15 - 10:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:30 - 10:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:45 - 11:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:00 - 11:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:15 - 11:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:30 - 11:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:45 - 12:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:00 - 12:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:15 - 12:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:30 - 12:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:45 - 13:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:00 - 13:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:15 - 13:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:30 - 13:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:45 - 14:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:00 - 14:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:15 - 14:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:30 - 14:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:45 - 15:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:00 - 15:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:15 - 15:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:30 - 15:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:45 - 16:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
PM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
16:00 - 16:15 5 14 0 0 0 32 29 0 58 0 6 0 0 0 0 0 144 
16:15 - 16:30 9 21 0 0 0 29 32 0 38 0 6 0 0 0 0 0 135 
16:30 - 16:45 33 25 0 0 0 23 44 0 33 0 12 0 0 0 0 0 170 
16:45 - 17:00 12 22 0 0 0 38 37 0 56 0 17 0 0 0 0 0 182 
17:00 - 17:15 14 33 0 0 0 39 38 0 38 0 16 0 0 0 0 0 178 
17:15 - 17:30 5 24 0 0 0 33 44 3 64 0 13 0 0 0 0 0 183 
17:30 - 17:45 6 22 0 0 0 25 35 0 47 1 12 0 0 0 0 0 148 
17:45 - 18:00 7 15 0 0 0 19 26 0 42 1 10 0 0 0 0 0 120 
Intersection Turning Movement Summary 
Northbound 
Main Street 
Southbound 
Main Street 
Eastbound 
Main Street 
Main Street 
Total Entering Vehicles 
632 
713 
MIDDAY PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PHF: 
100 South 100 South 
Westbound TOTAL 
Period 
Period 
RAW COUNT 
SUMMARIES 
Period 
160381
2364 North 1450 East 
Lehi, UT 84043 
801.636.0891 
Intersection: Hoytsville Road / Hobson Lane Date: 1-4-23, Wed 
North/South: Hoytsville Road Day of Week Adjustment: 100.0% 
East/West: Hobson Lane Month of Year Adjustment: 100.0% 
Jurisdiction: Hoytsville Adjustment Station #: 309 
Project  Title: Master Plan TS Growth Rate: 0.0% 
Project No: UT23-2414 Number of Years: 0
Weather: Clear 
AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:15 AM-8:15 AM 
AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 7:30 AM-7:45 AM 219 
AM PHF: 0.82 
166 
-
-
123 96 
PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 4:15 PM-5:15 PM 44 122 
PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 4:45 PM-5:00 PM 
PM PHF: 0.84 20 103 0
0 7 37 0
0 0
0
Hobson Lane 
0 0
23 8 0 0 0 0
39 32 13 24 0 0 0 0
16 24 0 0 0 0
3 0
Hobson Lane 
0
0 0 1 98 0
0 Legend 
3 83 0
AM 
37 99 Midday 
PM 
106 86 
136 
192 Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds 
AM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
7:00 - 7:15 0 11 0 0 0 9 3 0 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 29 
7:15 - 7:30 0 22 0 0 0 4 2 0 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 34 
7:30 - 7:45 0 35 0 0 0 6 2 0 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 51 
7:45 - 8:00 1 25 0 0 0 21 1 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 51 
8:00 - 8:15 0 16 0 0 0 6 2 0 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 31 
8:15 - 8:30 0 6 0 0 0 3 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 10 
8:30 - 8:45 0 7 0 0 0 6 1 0 3 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 18 
8:45 - 9:00 0 17 0 0 0 8 2 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 30 
MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
9:00 - 9:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:15 - 9:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:30 - 9:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:45 - 10:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:00 - 10:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:15 - 10:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:30 - 10:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:45 - 11:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:00 - 11:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:15 - 11:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:30 - 11:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:45 - 12:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:00 - 12:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:15 - 12:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:30 - 12:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:45 - 13:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:00 - 13:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:15 - 13:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:30 - 13:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:45 - 14:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:00 - 14:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:15 - 14:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:30 - 14:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:45 - 15:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:00 - 15:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:15 - 15:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:30 - 15:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:45 - 16:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
PM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
16:00 - 16:15 0 14 0 0 0 18 7 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 41 
16:15 - 16:30 0 17 0 0 0 26 3 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 47 
16:30 - 16:45 2 22 0 0 0 21 3 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 52 
16:45 - 17:00 1 25 0 0 0 31 3 0 5 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 67 
17:00 - 17:15 0 19 0 0 0 25 11 0 3 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 59 
17:15 - 17:30 0 13 0 0 0 16 2 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 35 
17:30 - 17:45 0 16 0 0 0 15 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 34 
17:45 - 18:00 0 5 0 0 0 14 2 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 24 
Intersection Turning Movement Summary 
Northbound 
Hoytsville Road 
Southbound 
Hoytsville Road 
Eastbound 
Hoytsville Road 
Hoytsville Road 
Total Entering Vehicles 
167 
225 
MIDDAY PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PHF: 
Hobson Lane Hobson Lane 
Westbound TOTAL 
Period 
Period 
RAW COUNT 
SUMMARIES 
Period 
161382
2364 North 1450 East 
Lehi, UT 84043 
801.636.0891 
Intersection: Hoytsville Road / Spring Canyon Road Date: 8-23-23, Wed 
North/South: Hoytsville Road Day of Week Adjustment: 100.0% 
East/West: Spring Canyon Road Month of Year Adjustment: 100.0% 
Jurisdiction: Hoytsville Adjustment Station #: 309 
Project  Title: Master Plan TS Growth Rate: 0.0% 
Project No: UT23-2414 Number of Years: 0
Weather: Clear 
AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:00 AM-8:00 AM 
AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 7:30 AM-7:45 AM 173 
AM PHF: 0.81 
166 
-
-
73 100 
PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 4:15 PM-5:15 PM 76 90 
PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 4:30 PM-4:45 PM 
PM PHF: 0.75 0 62 11 
0 0 55 21 
0 0
0
Spring Canyon Road 
19 13 
0 0 0 0 28 16 
0 0 0 0 9 3 55 36 
0 0 0 0 27 20 
0 0
Spring Canyon Road 
0
0 0 0 71 6
0 Legend 
0 87 9
AM 
64 77 Midday 
PM 
65 96 
141 
161 Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds 
AM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
7:00 - 7:15 0 11 2 0 2 9 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 7 0 33 
7:15 - 7:30 0 23 0 0 6 17 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 6 0 54 
7:30 - 7:45 0 24 1 0 9 18 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 2 0 56 
7:45 - 8:00 0 13 3 0 4 11 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 0 4 0 38 
8:00 - 8:15 0 8 0 0 2 15 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 27 
8:15 - 8:30 0 13 1 0 0 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 0 2 0 27 
8:30 - 8:45 0 6 0 0 3 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 18 
8:45 - 9:00 0 4 2 0 0 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 2 0 17 
MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
9:00 - 9:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:15 - 9:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:30 - 9:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:45 - 10:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:00 - 10:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:15 - 10:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:30 - 10:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:45 - 11:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:00 - 11:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:15 - 11:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:30 - 11:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:45 - 12:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:00 - 12:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:15 - 12:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:30 - 12:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:45 - 13:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:00 - 13:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:15 - 13:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:30 - 13:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:45 - 14:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:00 - 14:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:15 - 14:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:30 - 14:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:45 - 15:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:00 - 15:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:15 - 15:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:30 - 15:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:45 - 16:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
PM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
16:00 - 16:15 0 20 1 0 2 19 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 2 0 45 
16:15 - 16:30 0 19 1 0 2 15 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 3 0 41 
16:30 - 16:45 0 36 0 0 2 19 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 4 0 62 
16:45 - 17:00 0 14 1 0 4 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 0 30 
17:00 - 17:15 0 18 7 0 3 20 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 3 0 52 
17:15 - 17:30 0 18 1 0 2 15 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 4 0 41 
17:30 - 17:45 0 15 3 0 5 12 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 0 40 
17:45 - 18:00 0 20 1 0 7 12 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 41 
Intersection Turning Movement Summary 
Northbound 
Hoytsville Road 
Southbound 
Hoytsville Road 
Eastbound 
Hoytsville Road 
Hoytsville Road 
Total Entering Vehicles 
181 
185 
MIDDAY PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PHF: 
Spring Canyon Road Spring Canyon Road 
Westbound TOTAL 
Period 
Period 
RAW COUNT 
SUMMARIES 
Period 
162383
2364 North 1450 East 
Lehi, UT 84043 
801.636.0891 
Intersection: Hoytsville Road / Creamery Lane Date: 1-4-23, Wed 
North/South: Hoytsville Road Day of Week Adjustment: 100.0% 
East/West: Creamery Lane Month of Year Adjustment: 100.0% 
Jurisdiction: Hoytsville Adjustment Station #: 309 
Project  Title: Master Plan TS Growth Rate: 0.0% 
Project No: UT23-2414 Number of Years: 0
Weather: Clear 
AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:15 AM-8:15 AM 
AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 7:30 AM-7:45 AM 151 
AM PHF: 0.78 
113 
-
-
85 66 
PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 4:30 PM-5:30 PM 46 67 
PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 4:45 PM-5:00 PM 
PM PHF: 0.86 11 74 0
0 1 45 0
0 0
0
Creamery Lane 
0 0
16 1 0 0 0 0
25 10 4 4 0 0 0 0
9 9 0 0 0 0
5 5
Creamery Lane 
0
0 0 0 63 0
0 Legend 
5 62 0
AM 
50 63 Midday 
PM 
79 67 
113 
146 Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds 
AM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
7:00 - 7:15 0 4 0 0 0 8 0 0 2 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 16 
7:15 - 7:30 0 15 0 0 0 8 0 0 1 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 26 
7:30 - 7:45 0 21 0 0 0 11 0 0 3 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 38 
7:45 - 8:00 0 15 0 0 0 18 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 34 
8:00 - 8:15 0 12 0 0 0 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 20 
8:15 - 8:30 0 5 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 10 
8:30 - 8:45 1 8 0 0 0 10 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 21 
8:45 - 9:00 0 11 0 0 0 10 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 22 
MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
9:00 - 9:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:15 - 9:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:30 - 9:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:45 - 10:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:00 - 10:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:15 - 10:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:30 - 10:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:45 - 11:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:00 - 11:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:15 - 11:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:30 - 11:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:45 - 12:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:00 - 12:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:15 - 12:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:30 - 12:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:45 - 13:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:00 - 13:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:15 - 13:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:30 - 13:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:45 - 14:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:00 - 14:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:15 - 14:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:30 - 14:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:45 - 15:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:00 - 15:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:15 - 15:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:30 - 15:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:45 - 16:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
PM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
16:00 - 16:15 0 14 0 0 0 11 1 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 28 
16:15 - 16:30 2 14 0 0 0 16 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 34 
16:30 - 16:45 0 10 0 0 0 19 4 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 35 
16:45 - 17:00 2 23 0 0 0 17 2 0 2 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 47 
17:00 - 17:15 1 11 0 0 0 18 4 0 1 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 37 
17:15 - 17:30 2 18 0 0 0 20 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 42 
17:30 - 17:45 0 16 0 0 0 15 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 32 
17:45 - 18:00 0 15 0 0 0 13 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 29 
Intersection Turning Movement Summary 
Northbound 
Hoytsville Road 
Southbound 
Hoytsville Road 
Eastbound 
Hoytsville Road 
Hoytsville Road 
Total Entering Vehicles 
118 
161 
MIDDAY PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PHF: 
Creamery Lane Creamery Lane 
Westbound TOTAL 
Period 
Period 
RAW COUNT 
SUMMARIES 
Period 
163384
2364 North 1450 East 
Lehi, UT 84043 
801.636.0891 
Intersection: Hoystville Road / Judd Lane Date: 8-23-23, Wed 
North/South: Hoystville Road Day of Week Adjustment: 100.0% 
East/West: Judd Lane Month of Year Adjustment: 100.0% 
Jurisdiction: Hoytsville Adjustment Station #: 309 
Project  Title: Master Plan TS Growth Rate: 0.0% 
Project No: UT23-2414 Number of Years: 0
Weather: Clear 
AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:00 AM-8:00 AM 
AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 7:15 AM-7:30 AM 123 
AM PHF: 0.68 
118 
-
-
49 74 
PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 4:00 PM-5:00 PM 74 44 
PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 5:15 PM-5:30 PM 
PM PHF: 0.81 14 35 0
0 9 65 0
0 0
0
Judd Lane 
0 0
19 9 0 0 0 0
26 25 5 15 0 0 0 0
7 16 0 0 0 0
2 1
Judd Lane 
0
0 4 0 29 0
0 Legend 
5 69 0
AM 
66 29 Midday 
PM 
37 74 
95 
111 
Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds 
AM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
7:00 - 7:15 0 7 0 0 0 16 1 0 2 0 0 4 0 0 0 0 26 
7:15 - 7:30 0 9 0 0 0 23 5 0 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 44 
7:30 - 7:45 0 7 0 0 0 19 2 0 3 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 32 
7:45 - 8:00 0 6 0 0 0 7 1 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 17 
8:00 - 8:15 2 6 0 0 0 15 2 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 26 
8:15 - 8:30 0 6 0 0 0 16 1 0 2 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 26 
8:30 - 8:45 1 4 0 0 0 6 2 0 2 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 16 
8:45 - 9:00 0 2 0 0 0 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 12 
MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
9:00 - 9:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:15 - 9:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:30 - 9:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:45 - 10:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:00 - 10:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:15 - 10:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:30 - 10:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:45 - 11:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:00 - 11:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:15 - 11:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:30 - 11:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:45 - 12:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:00 - 12:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:15 - 12:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:30 - 12:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:45 - 13:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:00 - 13:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:15 - 13:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:30 - 13:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:45 - 14:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:00 - 14:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:15 - 14:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:30 - 14:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:45 - 15:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:00 - 15:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:15 - 15:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:30 - 15:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:45 - 16:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
PM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
16:00 - 16:15 0 18 0 0 0 12 4 0 3 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 39 
16:15 - 16:30 3 20 0 0 0 11 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 34 
16:30 - 16:45 2 18 0 0 0 10 5 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 36 
16:45 - 17:00 0 13 0 0 0 2 5 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 21 
17:00 - 17:15 1 11 0 0 0 10 3 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 26 
17:15 - 17:30 1 21 0 0 0 7 7 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 40 
17:30 - 17:45 1 12 0 0 0 6 3 0 4 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 27 
17:45 - 18:00 0 22 0 0 0 7 3 0 3 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 36 
Intersection Turning Movement Summary 
Northbound 
Hoystville Road 
Southbound 
Hoystville Road 
Eastbound 
Hoystville Road 
Hoystville Road 
Total Entering Vehicles 
119 
130 
MIDDAY PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PHF: 
Judd Lane Judd Lane 
Westbound TOTAL 
Period 
Period 
RAW COUNT 
SUMMARIES 
Period 
164385
2364 North 1450 East 
Lehi, UT 84043 
801.636.0891 
Intersection: SE Wanship Road / Old Lincoln Highway Date: 1-4-23, Wed 
North/South: SE Wanship Road Day of Week Adjustment: 100.0% 
East/West: Old Lincoln Highway Month of Year Adjustment: 100.0% 
Jurisdiction: Hoytsville Adjustment Station #: 309 
Project  Title: Master Plan TS Growth Rate: 0.0% 
Project No: UT23-2414 Number of Years: 0
Weather: Clear 
AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:00 AM-8:00 AM 
AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 7:15 AM-7:30 AM 37 
AM PHF: 0.75 
25 
-
-
22 15 
PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 4:00 PM-5:00 PM 17 8
PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 4:00 PM-4:15 PM 
PM PHF: 0.69 22 0 0
1 16 0 1
0 0
0
Old Lincoln Highway 
0 0
23 24 1 0 1 0
44 35 15 8 0 0 4 0
21 11 0 2 3 0
6 1
Old Lincoln Highway 
0
0 0 7 0 0
0 Legend 
1 0 0
AM 
1 7 Midday 
PM 
6 1
8
7Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds 
AM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
7:00 - 7:15 4 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 2 0 0 0 1 0 0 9
7:15 - 7:30 2 0 0 0 0 0 6 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 12 
7:30 - 7:45 1 0 0 0 0 0 5 0 2 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 9
7:45 - 8:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 6
8:00 - 8:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 4
8:15 - 8:30 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3
8:30 - 8:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 4
8:45 - 9:00 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 2
MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
9:00 - 9:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:15 - 9:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:30 - 9:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:45 - 10:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:00 - 10:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:15 - 10:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:30 - 10:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:45 - 11:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:00 - 11:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:15 - 11:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:30 - 11:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:45 - 12:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:00 - 12:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:15 - 12:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:30 - 12:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:45 - 13:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:00 - 13:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:15 - 13:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:30 - 13:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:45 - 14:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:00 - 14:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:15 - 14:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:30 - 14:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:45 - 15:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:00 - 15:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:15 - 15:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:30 - 15:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:45 - 16:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
PM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
16:00 - 16:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 7 1 7 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 16 
16:15 - 16:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 7 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 8
16:30 - 16:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 3 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 10 
16:45 - 17:00 1 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 4 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 10 
17:00 - 17:15 0 0 0 0 0 1 3 0 4 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 9
17:15 - 17:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2
17:30 - 17:45 1 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 4 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 8
17:45 - 18:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 5
Intersection Turning Movement Summary 
Northbound 
SE Wanship Road 
Southbound 
SE Wanship Road 
Eastbound 
SE Wanship Road 
SE Wanship Road 
Total Entering Vehicles 
36 
44 
MIDDAY PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PHF: 
Old Lincoln Highway Old Lincoln Highway 
Westbound TOTAL 
Period 
Period 
RAW COUNT 
SUMMARIES 
Period 
165386
2364 North 1450 East 
Lehi, UT 84043 
801.636.0891 
Intersection: SB I-80 Off-Ramp / Old Lincoln Highway Date: 8-23-23, Wed 
North/South: SB I-80 Off-Ramp Day of Week Adjustment: 100.0% 
East/West: Old Lincoln Highway Month of Year Adjustment: 100.0% 
Jurisdiction: Hoytsville Adjustment Station #: 309 
Project  Title: Master Plan TS Growth Rate: 0.0% 
Project No: UT23-2414 Number of Years: 0
Weather: Clear 
AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:30 AM-8:30 AM 
AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 7:45 AM-8:00 AM 74 
AM PHF: 0.85 
91 
-
-
74 0
PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 4:30 PM-5:30 PM 91 0
PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 4:30 PM-4:45 PM 
PM PHF: 0.84 69 0 5
0 90 0 1
0 0
0
Old Lincoln Highway 
0 0
83 106 16 14 16 14 
99 115 0 0 0 0 26 35 
16 9 16 9 10 21 
0 0
Old Lincoln Highway 
0
0 0 0 0 0
0 Legend 
0 0 0
AM 
0 0 Midday 
PM 
0 0
0
0Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds 
AM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
7:00 - 7:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 22 0 0 1 0 0 0 7 0 0 30 
7:15 - 7:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 11 0 0 0 0 0 0 7 0 0 18 
7:30 - 7:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 26 0 0 2 0 0 0 3 0 0 31 
7:45 - 8:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 28 0 0 2 0 0 0 4 0 0 34 
8:00 - 8:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 19 0 0 1 0 0 0 5 0 0 25 
8:15 - 8:30 0 0 0 0 1 0 17 0 0 4 0 0 0 4 0 0 26 
8:30 - 8:45 0 0 0 0 0 2 14 0 0 2 0 0 0 4 0 0 22 
8:45 - 9:00 0 0 0 0 2 0 16 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 18 
MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
9:00 - 9:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:15 - 9:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:30 - 9:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:45 - 10:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:00 - 10:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:15 - 10:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:30 - 10:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:45 - 11:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:00 - 11:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:15 - 11:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:30 - 11:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:45 - 12:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:00 - 12:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:15 - 12:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:30 - 12:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:45 - 13:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:00 - 13:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:15 - 13:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:30 - 13:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:45 - 14:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:00 - 14:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:15 - 14:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:30 - 14:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:45 - 15:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:00 - 15:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:15 - 15:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:30 - 15:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:45 - 16:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
PM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
16:00 - 16:15 0 0 0 0 1 1 11 0 0 5 0 0 0 6 0 0 24 
16:15 - 16:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 8 0 0 4 0 0 0 4 0 0 16 
16:30 - 16:45 0 0 0 0 1 0 20 0 0 2 0 0 0 8 0 0 31 
16:45 - 17:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 22 0 0 4 0 0 0 1 0 0 27 
17:00 - 17:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 12 0 0 9 0 0 0 3 0 0 24 
17:15 - 17:30 0 0 0 0 4 0 15 0 0 1 0 0 0 2 0 0 22 
17:30 - 17:45 0 0 0 0 2 0 12 0 0 4 0 0 0 7 0 0 25 
17:45 - 18:00 0 0 0 0 2 0 19 0 0 1 0 0 0 2 0 0 24 
Intersection Turning Movement Summary 
Northbound 
SB I-80 Off-Ramp 
Southbound 
SB I-80 Off-Ramp 
Eastbound 
SB I-80 Off-Ramp 
SB I-80 Off-Ramp 
Total Entering Vehicles 
116 
104 
MIDDAY PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PHF: 
Old Lincoln Highway Old Lincoln Highway 
Westbound TOTAL 
Period 
Period 
RAW COUNT 
SUMMARIES 
Period 
166387
2364 North 1450 East 
Lehi, UT 84043 
801.636.0891 
Intersection: Hoytsville Road / Old Lincoln Highway & W Hoytsville Road Date: 1-4-23, Wed 
North/South: Hoytsville Road Day of Week Adjustment: 100.0% 
East/West: Old Lincoln Highway & W Hoytsville Road Month of Year Adjustment: 100.0% 
Jurisdiction: Hoytsville Adjustment Station #: 309 
Project  Title: Master Plan TS Growth Rate: 0.0% 
Project No: UT23-2414 Number of Years: 0
Weather: Clear 
AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:00 AM-8:00 AM 
AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 7:15 AM-7:30 AM 87 
AM PHF: 0.89 
86 
-
-
33 54 
PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 4:30 PM-5:30 PM 65 21 
PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 4:30 PM-4:45 PM 
PM PHF: 0.92 2 30 1
0 2 61 2
0 0
0
Old Lincoln Highway & W Hoytsville Road 
4 3
37 13 2 0 102 60 
60 55 0 2 96 57 109 79 
23 42 0 0 7 19 
23 40 
Old Lincoln Highway & W Hoytsville Road 
0
0 0 9 15 5
0 Legend 
35 51 18 
AM 
197 29 Midday 
PM 
110 104 
226 
214 Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds 
AM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
7:00 - 7:15 0 4 1 0 0 19 1 0 0 0 7 0 23 0 1 0 56 
7:15 - 7:30 5 7 0 0 1 20 0 0 0 0 10 0 22 1 1 0 67 
7:30 - 7:45 3 1 1 0 1 15 0 0 1 0 8 0 32 1 0 0 63 
7:45 - 8:00 1 3 3 0 0 7 1 0 1 0 15 0 19 0 2 0 52 
8:00 - 8:15 1 6 2 0 0 12 0 0 1 0 8 0 17 0 1 0 48 
8:15 - 8:30 3 7 2 0 0 9 0 0 0 0 3 0 15 0 1 0 40 
8:30 - 8:45 1 5 0 2 1 17 0 0 0 0 5 0 9 1 4 0 43 
8:45 - 9:00 4 3 1 0 1 5 0 0 0 0 7 0 7 3 0 0 31 
MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
9:00 - 9:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:15 - 9:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:30 - 9:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:45 - 10:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:00 - 10:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:15 - 10:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:30 - 10:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:45 - 11:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:00 - 11:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:15 - 11:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:30 - 11:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:45 - 12:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:00 - 12:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:15 - 12:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:30 - 12:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:45 - 13:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:00 - 13:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:15 - 13:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:30 - 13:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:45 - 14:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:00 - 14:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:15 - 14:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:30 - 14:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:45 - 15:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:00 - 15:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:15 - 15:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:30 - 15:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:45 - 16:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
PM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
16:00 - 16:15 3 13 8 0 1 2 1 0 0 0 3 0 15 1 2 0 49 
16:15 - 16:30 6 8 1 0 0 5 0 0 0 0 3 0 14 1 0 0 38 
16:30 - 16:45 6 10 5 0 0 13 2 0 0 0 9 0 15 0 0 0 60 
16:45 - 17:00 10 16 6 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 4 0 13 0 0 0 52 
17:00 - 17:15 11 12 4 0 0 7 0 0 0 0 2 0 14 0 1 0 51 
17:15 - 17:30 8 13 3 0 1 7 0 0 0 0 8 0 15 0 2 0 57 
17:30 - 17:45 3 15 5 0 0 6 0 0 0 0 4 0 7 1 1 0 42 
17:45 - 18:00 7 14 3 2 0 2 0 0 0 0 4 0 10 0 0 0 40 
Intersection Turning Movement Summary 
Northbound 
Hoytsville Road 
Southbound 
Hoytsville Road 
Eastbound 
Hoytsville Road 
Hoytsville Road 
Total Entering Vehicles 
238 
220 
MIDDAY PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PHF: 
Old Lincoln Highway & W Hoytsville Road Old Lincoln Highway & W Hoytsville Road 
Westbound TOTAL 
Period 
Period 
RAW COUNT 
SUMMARIES 
Period 
167388
2364 North 1450 East 
Lehi, UT 84043 
801.636.0891 
Intersection: S.R. 32 / Old Lincoln Highway Date: 8-23-23, Wed 
North/South: S.R. 32 Day of Week Adjustment: 100.0% 
East/West: Old Lincoln Highway Month of Year Adjustment: 100.0% 
Jurisdiction: Hoytsville Adjustment Station #: 309 
Project  Title: Master Plan TS Growth Rate: 0.0% 
Project No: UT23-2414 Number of Years: 0
Weather: Clear 
AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:00 AM-8:00 AM 
AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 7:00 AM-7:15 AM 1
AM PHF: 0.93 
0
-
-
0 1
PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 4:00 PM-5:00 PM 0 0
PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 4:30 PM-4:45 PM 
PM PHF: 0.93 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0
0
Old Lincoln Highway 
0 0
17 43 13 5 238 150 
57 75 0 0 225 145 293 243 
40 32 5 6 55 93 
35 26 
Old Lincoln Highway 
0
1 1 30 0 49 
0 Legend 
12 1 88 
AM 
251 79 Midday 
PM 
180 101 
330 
281 Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds 
AM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
7:00 - 7:15 11 0 15 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 12 0 53 1 0 0 94 
7:15 - 7:30 4 0 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 4 1 51 1 0 0 71 
7:30 - 7:45 5 0 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 9 0 61 7 0 0 91 
7:45 - 8:00 10 0 16 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 0 60 4 0 0 93 
8:00 - 8:15 5 0 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 0 51 0 0 0 71 
8:15 - 8:30 11 0 12 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 50 2 0 0 76 
8:30 - 8:45 5 0 11 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 39 1 0 0 58 
8:45 - 9:00 4 0 15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 39 1 0 0 63 
MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
9:00 - 9:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:15 - 9:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:30 - 9:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:45 - 10:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:00 - 10:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:15 - 10:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:30 - 10:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:45 - 11:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:00 - 11:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:15 - 11:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:30 - 11:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:45 - 12:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:00 - 12:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:15 - 12:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:30 - 12:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:45 - 13:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:00 - 13:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:15 - 13:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:30 - 13:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:45 - 14:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:00 - 14:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:15 - 14:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:30 - 14:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:45 - 15:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:00 - 15:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:15 - 15:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:30 - 15:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:45 - 16:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
PM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
16:00 - 16:15 1 0 22 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 7 0 38 1 0 0 69 
16:15 - 16:30 3 0 31 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 12 0 27 2 0 0 75 
16:30 - 16:45 7 0 21 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 45 1 0 0 78 
16:45 - 17:00 1 1 14 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 12 1 35 1 0 0 69 
17:00 - 17:15 3 2 19 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 4 0 32 0 0 0 61 
17:15 - 17:30 4 0 20 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 6 0 19 1 0 0 51 
17:30 - 17:45 4 0 25 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 8 0 29 2 0 0 68 
17:45 - 18:00 6 0 26 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 9 0 35 1 0 0 77 
Intersection Turning Movement Summary 
Northbound 
S.R. 32 
Southbound 
S.R. 32 
Eastbound 
S.R. 32 
S.R. 32 
Total Entering Vehicles 
349 
291 
MIDDAY PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PHF: 
Old Lincoln Highway Old Lincoln Highway 
Westbound TOTAL 
Period 
Period 
RAW COUNT 
SUMMARIES 
Period 
168389
2364 North 1450 East 
Lehi, UT 84043 
801.636.0891 
Intersection: S.R. 32 / WB I-80 On-Ramp Date: 8-23-23, Wed 
North/South: S.R. 32 Day of Week Adjustment: 100.0% 
East/West: WB I-80 On-Ramp Month of Year Adjustment: 100.0% 
Jurisdiction: Hoytsville Adjustment Station #: 309 
Project  Title: Master Plan TS Growth Rate: 0.0% 
Project No: UT23-2414 Number of Years: 0
Weather: Clear 
AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:15 AM-8:15 AM 
AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 8:00 AM-8:15 AM 107 
AM PHF: 0.85 
106 
-
-
70 37 
PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 4:00 PM-5:00 PM 97 9
PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 4:15 PM-4:30 PM 
PM PHF: 0.90 70 0 0
0 97 0 0
0 0
0
WB I-80 On-Ramp 
0 0
128 178 0 0 0 0
128 178 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0
WB I-80 On-Ramp 
0
0 0 81 9 0
0 Legend 
58 37 0
AM 
0 90 Midday 
PM 
0 95 
90 
95 Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds 
AM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
7:00 - 7:15 15 13 1 0 0 0 24 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 53 
7:15 - 7:30 18 2 0 0 0 0 26 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 46 
7:30 - 7:45 15 2 0 0 0 0 23 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 40 
7:45 - 8:00 24 3 0 0 0 0 19 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 46 
8:00 - 8:15 24 2 0 0 0 0 29 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 55 
8:15 - 8:30 12 0 0 0 0 0 20 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 32 
8:30 - 8:45 14 2 0 0 0 0 16 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 32 
8:45 - 9:00 12 2 0 0 0 0 12 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 26 
MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
9:00 - 9:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:15 - 9:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:30 - 9:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:45 - 10:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:00 - 10:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:15 - 10:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:30 - 10:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:45 - 11:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:00 - 11:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:15 - 11:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:30 - 11:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:45 - 12:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:00 - 12:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:15 - 12:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:30 - 12:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:45 - 13:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:00 - 13:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:15 - 13:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:30 - 13:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:45 - 14:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:00 - 14:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:15 - 14:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:30 - 14:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:45 - 15:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:00 - 15:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:15 - 15:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:30 - 15:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:45 - 16:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
PM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
16:00 - 16:15 9 17 0 0 0 0 16 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 42 
16:15 - 16:30 19 12 0 0 0 0 15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 46 
16:30 - 16:45 20 5 0 0 0 0 20 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 45 
16:45 - 17:00 10 3 0 0 0 0 19 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 32 
17:00 - 17:15 15 7 0 0 0 0 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 28 
17:15 - 17:30 9 7 0 0 0 0 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 26 
17:30 - 17:45 19 5 0 0 0 0 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 30 
17:45 - 18:00 9 7 2 0 0 0 23 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 41 
Intersection Turning Movement Summary 
Northbound 
S.R. 32 
Southbound 
S.R. 32 
Eastbound 
S.R. 32 
S.R. 32 
Total Entering Vehicles 
187 
165 
MIDDAY PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PHF: 
WB I-80 On-Ramp WB I-80 On-Ramp 
Westbound TOTAL 
Period 
Period 
RAW COUNT 
SUMMARIES 
Period 
169390
2364 North 1450 East 
Lehi, UT 84043 
801.636.0891 
Intersection: SR 32 / EB I-80 Ramps Date: 8-23-23, Wed 
North/South: SR 32 Day of Week Adjustment: 100.0% 
East/West: EB I-80 Ramps Month of Year Adjustment: 100.0% 
Jurisdiction: Hoytsville Adjustment Station #: 309 
Project  Title: Master Plan TS Growth Rate: 0.0% 
Project No: UT23-2414 Number of Years: 0
Weather: Clear 
AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:00 AM-8:00 AM 
AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 7:30 AM-7:45 AM 177 
AM PHF: 0.82 
187 
-
-
94 83 
PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 4:45 PM-5:45 PM 134 53 
PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 5:00 PM-5:15 PM 
PM PHF: 0.95 0 76 18 
0 0 108 26 
0 0
0
EB I-80 Ramps 
0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0
178 98 83 53 0 0 71 118 
178 98 1 0 71 118 
94 45 
EB I-80 Ramps 
0
0 0 0 0 45 
0 Legend 
0 0 99 
AM 
153 45 Midday 
PM 
170 99 
198 
269 Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds Left Thru Right Peds 
AM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
7:00 - 7:15 0 0 9 0 9 28 0 0 19 0 9 0 0 0 0 0 74 
7:15 - 7:30 0 0 10 0 10 18 0 0 8 0 11 0 0 0 0 0 57 
7:30 - 7:45 0 0 18 0 5 36 0 0 12 0 13 0 0 0 0 0 84 
7:45 - 8:00 0 0 8 0 2 26 0 0 14 0 12 0 0 0 0 0 62 
8:00 - 8:15 0 0 4 0 1 24 0 0 13 0 20 0 0 0 0 0 62 
8:15 - 8:30 0 0 8 0 2 19 0 0 11 0 16 0 0 0 0 0 56 
8:30 - 8:45 0 0 9 0 1 12 0 0 7 0 21 0 0 0 0 0 50 
8:45 - 9:00 0 0 15 0 0 17 0 0 9 0 14 0 0 0 0 0 55 
MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
9:00 - 9:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:15 - 9:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:30 - 9:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9:45 - 10:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:00 - 10:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:15 - 10:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:30 - 10:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
10:45 - 11:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:00 - 11:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:15 - 11:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:30 - 11:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
11:45 - 12:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:00 - 12:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:15 - 12:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:30 - 12:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
12:45 - 13:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:00 - 13:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:15 - 13:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:30 - 13:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13:45 - 14:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:00 - 14:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:15 - 14:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:30 - 14:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
14:45 - 15:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:00 - 15:15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:15 - 15:30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:30 - 15:45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
15:45 - 16:00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
PM PERIOD COUNTS 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P TOTAL 
16:00 - 16:15 0 0 18 0 5 24 0 0 14 0 20 0 0 0 0 0 81 
16:15 - 16:30 1 1 17 0 5 12 1 0 18 0 21 0 0 0 0 0 76 
16:30 - 16:45 0 0 19 0 6 23 0 0 25 0 13 0 0 0 0 0 86 
16:45 - 17:00 0 0 19 0 5 20 0 0 12 1 35 0 0 0 0 0 92 
17:00 - 17:15 0 0 29 0 3 23 0 0 27 0 16 0 0 0 0 0 98 
17:15 - 17:30 0 0 24 0 1 13 0 0 22 0 24 0 0 0 0 0 84 
17:30 - 17:45 0 0 27 0 9 20 0 0 22 0 19 0 0 0 0 0 97 
17:45 - 18:00 0 0 26 0 2 15 0 0 28 0 19 0 0 0 0 0 90 
Intersection Turning Movement Summary 
Northbound 
SR 32 
Southbound 
SR 32 
Eastbound 
SR 32 
SR 32 
Total Entering Vehicles 
277 
371 
MIDDAY PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 
MIDDAY PHF: 
EB I-80 Ramps EB I-80 Ramps 
Westbound TOTAL 
Period 
Period 
RAW COUNT 
SUMMARIES 
Period 
170391
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
APPENDIX B 
LOS Results 
  
171392
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Existing (2023) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 130 128 99 8.1 A
T 1 1 100 2.8 A
R 12 12 102 5.1 A
Subtotal 143 141 99 7.8 A
T 36 36 100 0.4 A
R 24 25 103 0.1 A
Subtotal 60 61 102 0.3 A
L 198 192 97 3.1 A
T 34 34 101 2.5 A
Subtotal 232 226 97 3.0 A
Total 434 428 99 4.3 A
Intersection: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 14 12 86 6.0 A
R 80 84 105 0.6 A
Subtotal 94 96 102 1.3 A
L 16 17 105 4.1 A
T 150 149 99 1.1 A
Subtotal 166 166 100 1.4 A
T 218 215 99 2.4 A
R 38 42 110 3.2 A
Subtotal 256 257 100 2.5 A
Total 517 519 100 2.0 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
EB
WB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
172393
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Existing (2023) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Main Street & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 54 50 92 4.5 A
T 133 130 98 1.2 A
Subtotal 187 180 96 2.1 A
T 62 64 103 2.0 A
R 202 207 103 1.0 A
Subtotal 264 271 103 1.2 A
L 190 194 102 10.6 B
R 40 39 97 3.2 A
Subtotal 230 233 101 9.4 A
Total 682 684 100 4.2 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 1 0 0
T 116 116 100 0.2 A
Subtotal 117 116 99 0.2 A
T 73 73 100 0.2 A
R 14 17 121 0.1 A
Subtotal 87 90 103 0.2 A
L 31 30 96 4.6 A
R 3 4 123 2.4 A
Subtotal 34 34 100 4.3 A
Total 239 240 100 0.8 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
173394
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Existing (2023) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 71 69 98 0.2 A
R 6 9 144 0.1 A
Subtotal 77 78 101 0.2 A
L 21 20 96 1.9 A
T 55 54 98 0.2 A
Subtotal 76 74 97 0.7 A
L 9 9 103 4.6 A
R 19 20 104 2.7 A
Subtotal 28 29 104 3.3 A
Total 181 181 100 0.9 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 4 76 0.9 A
T 63 64 102 0.1 A
Subtotal 68 68 100 0.1 A
T 45 41 91 0.1 A
R 5 8 152 0.1 A
Subtotal 50 49 98 0.1 A
L 4 4 94 3.7 A
R 5 6 114 1.4 A
Subtotal 9 10 111 2.3 A
Total 128 127 99 0.3 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
174395
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Existing (2023) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 29 31 108 0.1 A
Subtotal 29 31 107 0.1 A
T 65 64 98 0.2 A
R 9 12 130 0.1 A
Subtotal 74 76 103 0.2 A
L 15 15 98 4.3 A
R 1 2 200 2.1 A
Subtotal 16 17 106 4.0 A
Total 120 124 104 0.7 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 7 6 83 3.7 A
Subtotal 7 6 86 3.7 A
T 9 11 119 0.2 A
R 1 1 100 0.1 A
Subtotal 10 12 120 0.2 A
L 1 0 0
T 16 21 129 0.0 A
Subtotal 17 21 124 0.0 A
Total 35 39 112 0.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
NE
SW
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
175396
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Existing (2023) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 9 11 119 0.4 A
Subtotal 9 11 122 0.4 A
T 24 27 115 0.5 A
Subtotal 24 27 113 0.5 A
L 1 1 100 2.8 A
R 90 90 100 2.9 A
Subtotal 91 91 100 2.9 A
Total 124 129 104 2.2 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 16 16 98 2.1 A
T 32 31 98 0.5 A
R 7 10 138 0.5 A
Subtotal 55 57 104 0.9 A
L 2 2 100 1.8 A
T 75 77 103 0.2 A
R 2 2 100 0.0 A
Subtotal 79 81 103 0.2 A
L 2 2 100 5.4 A
R 51 52 101 1.3 A
Subtotal 53 54 102 1.5 A
L 107 109 102 5.2 A
T 3 3 100 5.9 A
R 4 5 125 2.8 A
Subtotal 114 117 103 5.1 A
Total 301 309 103 2.4 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
WB
SW
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
EB
176397
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Existing (2023) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 30 30 101 2.3 A
T 0 0 0
R 49 52 106 0.5 A
Subtotal 79 82 104 1.2 A
T 6 4 67 8.1 A
R 26 28 109 4.5 A
Subtotal 32 32 100 5.0 A
L 225 228 101 2.3 A
T 14 16 119 2.4 A
Subtotal 239 244 102 2.3 A
Total 349 358 103 2.3 A
Intersection: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 81 79 98 3.4 A
T 80 84 105 1.0 A
Subtotal 161 163 101 2.2 A
T 153 155 101 1.5 A
R 97 103 106 1.1 A
Subtotal 250 258 103 1.3 A
Total 411 421 102 1.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
177398
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Existing (2023) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 107 108 101 0.6 A
R 45 44 98 0.3 A
Subtotal 152 152 100 0.5 A
L 26 26 101 2.6 A
T 110 109 100 0.7 A
Subtotal 136 135 99 1.1 A
L 53 54 101 5.5 A
R 45 45 100 3.7 A
Subtotal 98 99 101 4.7 A
Total 385 386 100 1.8 A
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
178399
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Existing (2023) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 56 57 102 5.3 A
R 19 19 99 3.0 A
Subtotal 75 76 101 4.7 A
T 39 36 92 0.2 A
R 22 23 103 0.1 A
Subtotal 61 59 97 0.2 A
L 96 97 101 2.1 A
T 30 29 96 0.7 A
Subtotal 126 126 100 1.8 A
Total 263 261 99 2.3 A
Intersection: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 9 9 100 4.8 A
R 214 214 100 0.9 A
Subtotal 223 223 100 1.1 A
L 13 11 85 2.2 A
T 83 83 100 0.7 A
Subtotal 96 94 98 0.9 A
T 117 117 100 0.5 A
R 92 93 101 0.4 A
Subtotal 209 210 100 0.5 A
Total 528 527 100 0.8 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
EB
WB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
179400
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Existing (2023) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Main Street & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 56 54 97 3.5 A
T 104 109 105 0.9 A
Subtotal 160 163 102 1.8 A
T 100 99 99 1.5 A
R 153 156 102 0.7 A
Subtotal 253 255 101 1.0 A
L 221 217 98 9.3 A
T 0 0 0
R 75 78 104 4.2 A
Subtotal 296 295 100 8.0 A
Total 709 713 101 4.1 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 9 92 1.3 A
T 95 98 103 0.3 A
Subtotal 105 107 102 0.4 A
T 95 91 96 0.4 A
R 30 30 100 0.2 A
Subtotal 125 121 97 0.4 A
L 15 14 93 4.8 A
R 5 6 114 2.3 A
Subtotal 20 20 100 4.1 A
Total 250 248 99 0.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
180401
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Existing (2023) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 87 85 98 0.1 A
R 9 9 100 0.1 A
Subtotal 96 94 98 0.1 A
L 11 10 89 1.0 A
T 62 62 100 0.2 A
Subtotal 73 72 99 0.3 A
L 3 3 92 4.0 A
R 13 12 91 2.6 A
Subtotal 16 15 94 2.9 A
Total 186 181 98 0.4 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 5 95 1.1 A
T 72 73 101 0.1 A
Subtotal 77 78 101 0.2 A
T 74 72 97 0.2 A
R 11 11 102 0.1 A
Subtotal 85 83 98 0.2 A
L 4 4 94 4.0 A
R 5 5 95 1.6 A
Subtotal 9 9 100 2.7 A
Total 172 170 99 0.3 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
181402
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Existing (2023) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 5 95 1.1 A
T 69 70 101 0.3 A
Subtotal 74 75 101 0.4 A
T 35 32 92 0.3 A
R 14 15 107 0.1 A
Subtotal 49 47 96 0.2 A
L 5 6 114 3.7 A
R 2 3 150 1.5 A
Subtotal 7 9 129 3.0 A
Total 130 131 100 0.5 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 1 1 100 2.3 A
Subtotal 1 1 100 2.3 A
T 15 14 92 0.5 A
R 6 6 100 0.2 A
Subtotal 21 20 95 0.4 A
T 22 23 106 0.0 A
Subtotal 22 23 105 0.0 A
Total 44 44 100 0.3 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
NE
SW
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
182403
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Existing (2023) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 16 17 105 0.2 A
Subtotal 16 17 106 0.2 A
T 23 24 104 0.2 A
Subtotal 23 24 104 0.2 A
L 5 3 60 4.8 A
R 69 68 99 2.7 A
Subtotal 74 71 96 2.8 A
Total 113 112 99 1.8 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 35 34 97 2.1 A
T 51 52 101 0.8 A
R 15 16 105 0.5 A
Subtotal 101 102 101 1.2 A
L 1 0 0
T 30 32 108 0.2 A
R 2 3 150 0.1 A
Subtotal 33 35 106 0.2 A
R 30 30 101 1.3 A
Subtotal 30 30 100 1.3 A
L 80 79 99 5.0 A
R 12 12 98 2.6 A
Subtotal 92 91 99 4.7 A
Total 256 258 101 2.3 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
WB
SW
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
EB
183404
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Existing (2023) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 12 10 82 1.2 A
T 20 21 108 0.1 A
R 88 90 102 0.3 A
Subtotal 120 121 101 0.3 A
T 5 4 80 9.3 A
R 35 38 109 4.3 A
Subtotal 40 42 105 4.8 A
L 145 145 100 2.0 A
T 5 6 120 2.7 A
Subtotal 150 151 101 2.0 A
Total 310 314 101 1.8 A
Intersection: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 58 56 96 2.8 A
T 121 122 101 0.8 A
Subtotal 179 178 99 1.4 A
T 110 114 104 0.8 A
R 70 69 99 0.6 A
Subtotal 180 183 102 0.7 A
Total 359 361 101 1.1 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
184405
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Existing (2023) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 95 97 102 0.6 A
R 45 46 102 0.3 A
Subtotal 140 143 102 0.5 A
L 18 17 93 2.1 A
T 76 77 101 0.5 A
Subtotal 94 94 100 0.8 A
L 83 80 96 5.9 A
T 1 1 100 7.7 A
R 94 92 98 3.9 A
Subtotal 178 173 97 4.8 A
Total 413 410 99 2.4 A
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
185406
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 140 140 100 8.7 A
T 5 4 84 10.2 B
R 15 15 100 5.2 A
Subtotal 160 159 99 8.4 A
T 40 36 89 0.5 A
R 25 25 99 0.1 A
Subtotal 65 61 94 0.3 A
L 210 214 102 3.3 A
T 36 35 98 2.5 A
Subtotal 246 249 101 3.2 A
Total 471 469 100 4.6 A
Intersection: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 15 15 100 7.0 A
R 85 79 93 0.6 A
Subtotal 100 94 94 1.6 A
L 20 17 86 3.8 A
T 160 159 99 1.1 A
Subtotal 180 176 98 1.4 A
T 230 233 101 2.2 A
R 40 37 92 3.1 A
Subtotal 270 270 100 2.3 A
Total 551 540 98 1.9 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
EB
WB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
186407
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Main Street & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 60 60 100 4.2 A
T 140 144 103 1.3 A
Subtotal 200 204 102 2.2 A
T 65 68 105 2.0 A
R 210 209 100 1.0 A
Subtotal 275 277 101 1.2 A
L 200 192 96 10.9 B
T 0 0 0
R 45 46 102 3.4 A
Subtotal 245 238 97 9.5 A
Total 720 719 100 4.2 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 5 95 1.1 A
T 120 115 96 0.2 A
Subtotal 125 120 96 0.2 A
T 80 83 104 0.2 A
R 15 14 93 0.0 A
Subtotal 95 97 102 0.2 A
L 35 34 98 4.6 A
R 5 7 133 2.3 A
Subtotal 40 41 103 4.2 A
Total 260 258 99 0.9 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
187408
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 75 74 99 0.1 A
R 10 10 103 0.1 A
Subtotal 85 84 99 0.1 A
L 25 26 104 1.8 A
T 60 62 104 0.2 A
Subtotal 85 88 104 0.7 A
L 10 8 82 5.0 A
R 20 23 116 2.9 A
Subtotal 30 31 103 3.4 A
Total 199 203 102 0.9 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 9 90 1.1 A
T 35 38 108 0.2 A
Subtotal 45 47 104 0.4 A
T 50 47 94 0.3 A
R 10 12 120 0.1 A
Subtotal 60 59 98 0.3 A
L 5 5 95 3.5 A
R 10 10 100 1.9 A
Subtotal 15 15 100 2.4 A
Total 120 121 101 0.5 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
188409
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 5 105 1.2 A
T 30 31 104 0.1 A
Subtotal 35 36 103 0.3 A
T 70 69 99 0.2 A
R 10 12 123 0.1 A
Subtotal 80 81 101 0.2 A
L 20 23 115 4.3 A
R 5 5 105 3.1 A
Subtotal 25 28 112 4.1 A
Total 139 145 104 1.0 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 9 88 4.0 A
R 5 7 140 2.3 A
Subtotal 15 16 107 3.3 A
T 20 18 91 0.3 A
R 5 5 100 0.3 A
Subtotal 25 23 92 0.3 A
L 5 4 80 2.0 A
T 20 20 101 0.1 A
Subtotal 25 24 96 0.4 A
Total 65 63 97 1.1 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
NE
SW
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
189410
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 21 21 101 0.9 A
Subtotal 21 21 100 0.9 A
T 30 29 97 0.6 A
Subtotal 30 29 97 0.6 A
L 5 5 100 4.1 A
R 95 98 103 2.9 A
Subtotal 100 103 103 3.0 A
Total 151 153 101 2.2 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 20 19 96 2.6 A
T 30 34 111 0.8 A
R 10 12 117 0.4 A
Subtotal 60 65 108 1.3 A
L 5 3 60 1.5 A
T 80 81 101 0.3 A
R 5 7 140 0.1 A
Subtotal 90 91 101 0.3 A
L 5 4 80 4.8 A
T 5 5 100 5.3 A
R 55 56 101 1.4 A
Subtotal 65 65 100 1.9 A
L 115 117 102 5.5 A
T 6 7 117 5.5 A
R 5 5 100 3.5 A
Subtotal 126 129 102 5.4 A
Total 342 350 102 2.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
WB
SW
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
EB
190411
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 35 34 97 2.5 A
R 50 54 107 0.8 A
Subtotal 85 88 104 1.5 A
T 10 9 88 9.2 A
R 30 29 97 5.0 A
Subtotal 40 38 95 6.0 A
L 235 238 101 2.4 A
T 16 17 106 2.1 A
Subtotal 251 255 102 2.4 A
Total 376 381 101 2.5 A
Intersection: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 85 81 95 3.3 A
T 85 88 103 1.0 A
Subtotal 170 169 99 2.1 A
T 165 169 102 1.5 A
R 100 97 97 1.1 A
Subtotal 265 266 100 1.4 A
Total 435 435 100 1.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
191412
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 115 113 98 0.7 A
R 50 48 96 0.4 A
Subtotal 165 161 98 0.6 A
L 30 32 108 2.7 A
T 115 118 102 0.7 A
Subtotal 145 150 103 1.1 A
L 55 55 100 5.7 A
R 50 53 105 3.7 A
Subtotal 105 108 103 4.7 A
Total 416 419 101 1.9 A
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
192413
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 60 57 95 5.3 A
T 5 5 100 5.8 A
R 20 21 104 3.0 A
Subtotal 85 83 98 4.7 A
T 40 39 97 0.3 A
R 25 28 111 0.1 A
Subtotal 65 67 103 0.2 A
L 100 93 93 2.2 A
T 36 32 89 1.0 A
Subtotal 136 125 92 1.9 A
Total 286 275 96 2.4 A
Intersection: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 8 80 6.1 A
T 5 6 120 7.0 A
R 225 232 103 1.0 A
Subtotal 240 246 103 1.3 A
L 15 15 100 2.5 A
T 85 82 96 0.7 A
Subtotal 100 97 97 1.0 A
T 126 117 93 0.5 A
R 95 90 95 0.4 A
Subtotal 221 207 94 0.5 A
Total 562 550 98 0.9 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
EB
WB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
193414
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Main Street & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 60 55 92 3.4 A
T 110 109 99 0.8 A
Subtotal 170 164 96 1.7 A
T 105 110 105 1.4 A
R 160 152 95 0.7 A
Subtotal 265 262 99 1.0 A
L 230 233 101 10.0 A
T 1 2 200 0.6 A
R 80 79 99 4.2 A
Subtotal 311 314 101 8.5 A
Total 746 740 99 4.4 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 15 12 80 1.7 A
T 100 101 101 0.3 A
Subtotal 115 113 98 0.4 A
T 100 104 104 0.5 A
R 35 37 105 0.2 A
Subtotal 135 141 104 0.4 A
L 20 20 99 4.7 A
R 10 9 92 2.5 A
Subtotal 30 29 97 4.0 A
Total 281 283 101 0.8 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
194415
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 90 87 97 0.2 A
R 10 10 100 0.0 A
Subtotal 100 97 97 0.2 A
L 15 13 88 1.3 A
T 65 66 101 0.2 A
Subtotal 80 79 99 0.4 A
L 5 5 105 4.5 A
R 15 14 95 2.8 A
Subtotal 20 19 95 3.2 A
Total 200 195 98 0.6 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 8 82 1.2 A
T 75 77 103 0.1 A
Subtotal 85 85 100 0.2 A
T 80 80 100 0.3 A
R 15 16 108 0.1 A
Subtotal 95 96 101 0.3 A
L 5 4 76 4.5 A
R 10 10 103 1.8 A
Subtotal 15 14 93 2.6 A
Total 195 195 100 0.4 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
195416
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 9 92 1.2 A
T 75 81 108 0.3 A
Subtotal 85 90 106 0.4 A
T 40 39 98 0.3 A
R 15 17 111 0.1 A
Subtotal 55 56 102 0.2 A
L 10 10 103 3.9 A
R 5 6 114 1.7 A
Subtotal 15 16 107 3.1 A
Total 155 162 105 0.6 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 4 80 3.6 A
R 5 6 120 1.4 A
Subtotal 10 10 100 2.3 A
T 30 29 97 0.5 A
R 10 11 107 0.3 A
Subtotal 40 40 100 0.4 A
L 5 4 80 1.3 A
T 25 28 113 0.1 A
Subtotal 30 32 107 0.3 A
Total 80 82 103 0.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
NE
SW
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
196417
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 31 33 107 0.6 A
Subtotal 31 33 106 0.6 A
T 30 31 103 0.4 A
Subtotal 30 31 103 0.4 A
L 10 8 78 4.3 A
R 75 74 99 2.8 A
Subtotal 85 82 96 2.9 A
Total 146 146 100 1.9 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 40 41 102 2.2 A
T 55 58 105 1.0 A
R 20 22 111 0.6 A
Subtotal 115 121 105 1.3 A
L 5 4 80 2.1 A
T 35 33 94 0.2 A
R 5 5 100 0.0 A
Subtotal 45 42 93 0.4 A
L 5 4 80 5.2 A
T 5 6 120 6.1 A
R 35 36 103 1.4 A
Subtotal 45 46 102 2.3 A
L 85 84 99 5.5 A
T 6 5 91 6.0 A
R 15 17 111 2.9 A
Subtotal 106 106 100 5.1 A
Total 311 315 101 2.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
WB
SW
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
EB
197418
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 15 14 92 1.3 A
T 20 22 111 0.2 A
R 95 100 105 0.3 A
Subtotal 130 136 105 0.4 A
T 10 9 88 7.2 A
R 40 40 100 4.3 A
Subtotal 50 49 98 4.8 A
L 150 146 97 2.3 A
T 10 11 107 2.0 A
Subtotal 160 157 98 2.3 A
Total 340 342 100 1.9 A
Intersection: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 60 59 99 2.9 A
T 130 136 104 0.8 A
Subtotal 190 195 103 1.4 A
T 115 117 102 0.9 A
R 75 69 92 0.6 A
Subtotal 190 186 98 0.8 A
Total 380 381 100 1.1 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
198419
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 100 105 105 0.7 A
R 50 47 94 0.4 A
Subtotal 150 152 101 0.6 A
L 20 19 96 2.4 A
T 80 84 105 0.5 A
Subtotal 100 103 103 0.9 A
L 90 90 100 6.0 A
T 5 5 100 6.6 A
R 100 98 98 4.1 A
Subtotal 195 193 99 5.1 A
Total 445 448 101 2.6 A
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
199420
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 142 141 99 9.1 A
T 5 5 105 8.7 A
R 15 17 113 5.9 A
Subtotal 162 163 101 8.8 A
T 40 40 99 0.5 A
R 25 26 103 0.1 A
Subtotal 65 66 102 0.3 A
L 214 211 99 3.5 A
T 36 36 101 2.5 A
Subtotal 250 247 99 3.4 A
Total 477 476 100 4.8 A
Intersection: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 15 16 107 6.2 A
R 88 90 102 0.6 A
Subtotal 103 106 103 1.4 A
L 20 19 96 3.9 A
T 163 161 99 1.1 A
Subtotal 183 180 98 1.4 A
T 234 231 99 2.9 A
R 45 48 107 3.0 A
Subtotal 279 279 100 2.9 A
Total 565 565 100 2.2 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
EB
WB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
200421
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Main Street & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 69 66 95 4.7 A
T 166 161 97 1.6 A
Subtotal 235 227 97 2.5 A
T 81 78 96 2.1 A
R 210 212 101 1.1 A
Subtotal 291 290 100 1.4 A
L 200 201 100 14.1 B
T 1 1 133 0.9 A
R 50 48 96 3.6 A
Subtotal 251 250 100 12.0 B
Total 776 767 99 5.2 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 4 76 1.1 A
T 155 158 102 0.3 A
Subtotal 160 162 101 0.3 A
T 101 101 100 0.2 A
R 15 15 100 0.1 A
Subtotal 116 116 100 0.2 A
L 35 34 98 5.0 A
R 5 6 114 2.2 A
Subtotal 40 40 100 4.6 A
Total 317 318 100 0.8 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
201422
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 110 112 102 0.4 A
R 10 8 82 0.4 A
Subtotal 120 120 100 0.4 A
L 25 24 96 2.0 A
T 81 83 102 0.2 A
Subtotal 106 107 101 0.6 A
L 10 9 92 5.3 A
R 20 23 116 3.0 A
Subtotal 30 32 107 3.6 A
Total 255 259 101 0.9 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 11 110 1.0 A
T 53 54 102 0.2 A
Subtotal 63 65 103 0.3 A
T 85 87 103 0.5 A
R 14 13 91 0.2 A
Subtotal 99 100 101 0.5 A
L 8 5 65 4.5 A
R 10 9 90 1.7 A
Subtotal 18 14 78 2.7 A
Total 180 179 100 0.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
202423
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 5 105 1.1 A
T 48 50 105 0.2 A
Subtotal 53 55 104 0.3 A
T 102 107 105 0.2 A
R 10 10 103 0.1 A
Subtotal 112 117 104 0.2 A
L 20 21 105 4.4 A
R 5 5 105 3.1 A
Subtotal 25 26 104 4.2 A
Total 189 198 105 0.8 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 9 88 3.8 A
R 5 6 120 2.3 A
Subtotal 15 15 100 3.2 A
T 22 18 83 0.2 A
R 5 6 120 0.2 A
Subtotal 27 24 89 0.2 A
L 5 4 80 1.6 A
T 23 22 97 0.0 A
Subtotal 28 26 93 0.2 A
Total 70 65 93 0.9 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
NE
SW
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
203424
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 23 21 92 0.9 A
Subtotal 23 21 91 0.9 A
T 33 31 94 0.6 A
Subtotal 33 31 94 0.6 A
L 5 4 80 3.9 A
R 95 94 99 2.9 A
Subtotal 100 98 98 2.9 A
Total 156 150 96 2.1 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 20 17 86 2.6 A
T 46 44 96 0.7 A
R 12 12 98 0.5 A
Subtotal 78 73 94 1.1 A
L 5 5 100 1.8 A
T 109 112 103 0.4 A
R 5 7 140 0.1 A
Subtotal 119 124 104 0.4 A
L 5 4 80 4.8 A
T 5 5 100 6.4 A
R 55 61 110 1.5 A
Subtotal 65 70 108 2.0 A
L 118 112 95 5.8 A
T 7 7 104 6.1 A
R 5 6 120 3.1 A
Subtotal 130 125 96 5.7 A
Total 392 392 100 2.5 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
WB
SW
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
EB
204425
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 35 34 97 2.6 A
R 68 64 94 0.7 A
Subtotal 103 98 95 1.4 A
T 10 9 88 11.4 B
R 30 30 101 5.4 A
Subtotal 40 39 98 6.8 A
L 265 266 100 2.5 A
T 17 20 116 2.1 A
Subtotal 282 286 101 2.5 A
Total 425 423 100 2.6 A
Intersection: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 85 80 94 3.5 A
T 104 98 94 1.1 A
Subtotal 189 178 94 2.2 A
T 168 173 103 1.7 A
R 126 125 99 1.2 A
Subtotal 294 298 101 1.5 A
Total 483 476 98 1.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
205426
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 118 108 92 0.7 A
R 50 51 101 0.4 A
Subtotal 168 159 95 0.6 A
L 30 28 94 2.4 A
T 119 123 103 0.8 A
Subtotal 149 151 101 1.1 A
L 70 69 99 6.0 A
R 50 50 100 3.8 A
Subtotal 120 119 99 5.1 A
Total 437 429 98 2.0 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 1
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 8 78 1.9 A
T 58 58 101 0.3 A
Subtotal 68 66 97 0.5 A
T 80 82 102 0.4 A
R 11 10 93 0.4 A
Subtotal 91 92 101 0.4 A
L 18 16 90 4.4 A
R 18 22 124 2.7 A
Subtotal 36 38 106 3.4 A
Total 194 196 101 1.0 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
206427
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 2
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 11 9 84 1.5 A
T 52 53 101 0.7 A
Subtotal 63 62 98 0.8 A
T 78 80 102 0.4 A
R 10 11 107 0.3 A
Subtotal 88 91 103 0.4 A
L 17 16 96 4.8 A
R 18 18 101 2.7 A
Subtotal 35 34 97 3.7 A
Total 186 187 100 1.1 A
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
207428
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 72 67 93 5.7 A
T 5 7 140 5.3 A
R 20 21 104 3.4 A
Subtotal 97 95 98 5.2 A
T 40 38 94 0.4 A
R 25 26 103 0.1 A
Subtotal 65 64 98 0.3 A
L 104 104 100 3.2 A
T 36 35 99 2.0 A
Subtotal 140 139 99 2.9 A
Total 302 298 99 3.1 A
Intersection: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 9 90 5.9 A
T 5 6 120 6.0 A
R 230 238 103 1.0 A
Subtotal 245 253 103 1.3 A
L 15 12 80 3.2 A
T 98 94 96 0.8 A
Subtotal 113 106 94 1.1 A
T 130 130 100 4.5 A
R 106 111 105 3.1 A
Subtotal 236 241 102 3.9 A
Total 594 600 101 2.3 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
EB
WB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
208429
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Main Street & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 75 74 99 4.2 A
T 140 148 106 1.3 A
Subtotal 215 222 103 2.3 A
T 143 144 101 1.7 A
R 160 167 105 0.8 A
Subtotal 303 311 103 1.2 A
L 230 232 101 12.2 B
R 97 99 102 4.6 A
Subtotal 327 331 101 9.9 A
Total 845 864 102 4.8 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 15 15 100 1.7 A
T 145 151 104 0.4 A
Subtotal 160 166 104 0.5 A
T 155 150 97 0.6 A
R 35 37 105 0.3 A
Subtotal 190 187 98 0.5 A
L 20 20 99 5.2 A
R 10 11 113 2.6 A
Subtotal 30 31 103 4.3 A
Total 380 384 101 0.8 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
209430
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 135 126 93 0.8 A
R 10 11 110 0.6 A
Subtotal 145 137 94 0.8 A
L 15 15 102 2.0 A
T 120 118 98 0.2 A
Subtotal 135 133 99 0.4 A
L 5 4 84 6.0 A
R 15 15 102 2.8 A
Subtotal 20 19 95 3.5 A
Total 300 289 96 0.8 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 12 123 1.0 A
T 119 114 96 0.2 A
Subtotal 129 126 98 0.3 A
T 115 115 100 0.6 A
R 19 18 95 0.3 A
Subtotal 134 133 99 0.6 A
L 10 9 92 5.0 A
R 10 10 103 2.0 A
Subtotal 20 19 95 3.4 A
Total 282 278 98 0.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
210431
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 10 103 1.3 A
T 119 121 101 0.3 A
Subtotal 129 131 102 0.4 A
T 74 72 98 0.3 A
R 15 16 105 0.2 A
Subtotal 89 88 99 0.3 A
L 10 11 113 5.0 A
R 5 7 133 2.8 A
Subtotal 15 18 120 4.1 A
Total 233 237 102 0.6 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 5 100 4.0 A
R 5 6 120 2.3 A
Subtotal 10 11 110 3.1 A
T 34 31 91 0.5 A
R 10 11 107 0.3 A
Subtotal 44 42 95 0.4 A
L 5 4 80 1.5 A
T 28 31 112 0.0 A
Subtotal 33 35 106 0.2 A
Total 87 88 101 0.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
NE
SW
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
211432
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 35 34 97 0.7 A
Subtotal 35 34 97 0.7 A
T 34 37 110 0.4 A
Subtotal 34 37 109 0.4 A
L 10 9 88 4.1 A
R 75 72 96 2.8 A
Subtotal 85 81 95 2.9 A
Total 154 152 99 1.8 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 40 37 92 2.5 A
T 95 98 103 1.1 A
R 24 25 105 0.8 A
Subtotal 159 160 101 1.4 A
L 5 4 80 2.3 A
T 66 63 96 0.2 A
R 5 5 100 0.2 A
Subtotal 76 72 95 0.3 A
L 5 4 80 5.7 A
T 5 4 80 7.7 A
R 35 35 100 1.3 A
Subtotal 45 43 96 2.3 A
L 88 84 95 6.0 A
T 6 8 133 6.3 A
R 15 16 105 2.8 A
Subtotal 109 108 99 5.5 A
Total 389 383 98 2.5 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
WB
SW
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
EB
212433
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 15 14 92 1.9 A
T 20 21 106 0.2 A
R 136 136 100 0.5 A
Subtotal 171 171 100 0.6 A
T 13 14 106 9.4 A
R 40 37 92 4.4 A
Subtotal 53 51 96 5.8 A
L 183 175 96 1.9 A
T 11 11 98 1.8 A
Subtotal 194 186 96 1.9 A
Total 418 408 97 1.8 A
Intersection: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 60 59 99 3.2 A
T 172 172 100 0.9 A
Subtotal 232 231 100 1.5 A
T 119 110 92 1.3 A
R 104 102 98 0.8 A
Subtotal 223 212 95 1.1 A
Total 454 443 97 1.3 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
213434
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 105 106 101 0.8 A
R 50 49 98 0.3 A
Subtotal 155 155 100 0.6 A
L 20 17 86 2.6 A
T 84 78 93 0.6 A
Subtotal 104 95 91 1.0 A
L 126 124 98 6.4 A
T 5 5 100 7.1 A
R 100 98 98 4.7 A
Subtotal 231 227 98 5.7 A
Total 490 477 97 3.1 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 1
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 24 20 83 2.2 A
T 102 98 96 0.4 A
Subtotal 126 118 94 0.7 A
T 122 119 98 0.6 A
R 28 25 88 0.5 A
Subtotal 150 144 96 0.6 A
L 23 22 96 5.4 A
R 18 19 107 3.1 A
Subtotal 41 41 100 4.3 A
Total 316 303 96 1.1 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
214435
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 2
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 25 24 96 1.5 A
T 105 100 95 1.0 A
Subtotal 130 124 95 1.1 A
T 113 110 97 0.6 A
R 27 28 103 0.3 A
Subtotal 140 138 99 0.5 A
L 22 20 91 5.2 A
R 20 22 110 2.9 A
Subtotal 42 42 100 4.0 A
Total 312 304 97 1.2 A
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
215436
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 199 201 101 13.2 B
T 5 6 114 10.7 B
R 15 16 105 8.9 A
Subtotal 219 223 102 12.8 B
T 40 37 92 0.6 A
R 30 34 111 0.1 A
Subtotal 70 71 101 0.4 A
L 314 305 97 4.7 A
T 40 43 106 4.4 A
Subtotal 354 348 98 4.7 A
Total 645 642 100 7.0 A
Intersection: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 20 18 91 8.5 A
T 5 5 95 9.3 A
R 126 123 97 0.9 A
Subtotal 151 146 97 2.1 A
L 20 18 91 14.5 B
T 219 219 100 10.3 B
Subtotal 239 237 99 10.6 B
T 334 328 98 7.4 A
R 161 163 101 3.8 A
Subtotal 495 491 99 6.2 A
Total 886 874 99 6.8 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
EB
WB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
216437
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Main Street & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 270 265 98 9.4 A
T 323 321 99 7.1 A
Subtotal 593 586 99 8.1 A
T 160 157 98 2.4 A
R 225 226 101 1.4 A
Subtotal 385 383 99 1.8 A
L 215 203 94 202.6 F
T 1 1 133 30.0 D
R 130 124 95 25.3 D
Subtotal 346 328 95 135.0 F
Total 1,324 1,297 98 40.3 E
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 4 76 1.9 A
T 513 527 103 0.5 A
Subtotal 518 531 103 0.5 A
T 260 268 103 0.4 A
R 20 20 99 0.2 A
Subtotal 280 288 103 0.4 A
L 35 34 98 9.9 A
R 5 5 95 3.2 A
Subtotal 40 39 98 9.0 A
Total 838 858 102 0.9 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
217438
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 301 298 99 0.8 A
R 15 17 111 0.6 A
Subtotal 316 315 100 0.8 A
L 25 26 104 2.8 A
T 186 186 100 0.4 A
Subtotal 211 212 100 0.7 A
L 12 10 83 7.1 A
R 25 23 92 3.8 A
Subtotal 37 33 89 4.8 A
Total 564 560 99 1.0 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 15 13 85 2.4 A
T 184 183 99 0.7 A
Subtotal 199 196 98 0.8 A
T 201 202 100 0.9 A
R 30 29 97 0.4 A
Subtotal 231 231 100 0.8 A
L 39 38 98 6.3 A
T 3 3 100 0.4 A
R 33 34 103 3.1 A
Subtotal 75 75 100 4.6 A
Total 505 502 99 1.4 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
218439
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 4 84 1.7 A
T 126 128 102 0.3 A
Subtotal 131 132 101 0.3 A
T 245 238 97 0.4 A
R 10 10 103 0.2 A
Subtotal 255 248 97 0.4 A
L 20 18 90 5.6 A
R 5 6 126 3.2 A
Subtotal 25 24 96 5.0 A
Total 410 404 98 0.6 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 8 78 4.1 A
R 5 7 140 2.2 A
Subtotal 15 15 100 3.2 A
T 28 26 94 0.3 A
R 5 5 100 0.1 A
Subtotal 33 31 94 0.3 A
L 5 4 80 1.6 A
T 35 34 97 0.1 A
Subtotal 40 38 95 0.3 A
Total 88 84 95 0.8 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
NE
SW
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
219440
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 29 29 101 0.7 A
Subtotal 29 29 100 0.7 A
T 45 41 91 0.6 A
Subtotal 45 41 91 0.6 A
L 5 4 80 5.1 A
R 100 96 96 3.1 A
Subtotal 105 100 95 3.2 A
Total 179 170 95 2.1 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 20 20 101 3.4 A
T 118 126 107 1.2 A
R 18 20 110 0.7 A
Subtotal 156 166 106 1.4 A
L 5 4 80 1.9 A
T 240 238 99 0.6 A
R 5 6 120 0.3 A
Subtotal 250 248 99 0.6 A
L 5 6 120 6.6 A
T 5 5 100 8.2 A
R 60 60 100 1.5 A
Subtotal 70 71 101 2.4 A
L 135 126 93 8.3 A
T 6 7 127 7.8 A
R 5 5 100 3.7 A
Subtotal 146 138 95 8.1 A
Total 622 623 100 2.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
WB
SW
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
EB
220441
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 35 33 94 6.4 A
T 1 1 133 0.0 A
R 143 152 106 1.4 A
Subtotal 179 186 104 2.3 A
T 13 14 106 16.9 C
R 30 31 104 7.1 A
Subtotal 43 45 105 10.1 B
L 412 401 97 2.4 A
T 23 22 96 2.4 A
Subtotal 435 423 97 2.4 A
Total 657 654 100 2.9 A
Intersection: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 90 92 102 5.7 A
T 178 186 104 1.9 A
Subtotal 268 278 104 3.2 A
T 192 182 95 2.8 A
R 250 249 100 2.0 A
Subtotal 442 431 98 2.3 A
Total 710 709 100 2.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
221442
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 132 140 106 0.8 A
R 50 49 98 0.5 A
Subtotal 182 189 104 0.7 A
L 30 25 84 2.8 A
T 143 139 97 1.0 A
Subtotal 173 164 95 1.3 A
L 136 137 101 6.9 A
T 5 3 60 9.2 A
R 50 52 103 4.7 A
Subtotal 191 192 101 6.3 A
Total 546 545 100 2.9 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 1
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 20 18 90 2.8 A
T 226 223 99 0.6 A
Subtotal 246 241 98 0.8 A
T 187 185 99 0.9 A
R 24 24 100 0.6 A
Subtotal 211 209 99 0.9 A
L 43 44 102 6.6 A
R 30 31 102 3.6 A
Subtotal 73 75 103 5.4 A
Total 530 525 99 1.5 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
222443
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 2
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 25 26 104 2.5 A
T 199 194 98 1.3 A
Subtotal 224 220 98 1.4 A
T 187 183 98 0.8 A
R 31 34 109 0.5 A
Subtotal 218 217 100 0.8 A
L 54 52 96 7.4 A
R 37 40 109 3.7 A
Subtotal 91 92 101 5.8 A
Total 533 529 99 1.9 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 3
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 9 8 86 2.0 A
T 162 157 97 0.4 A
Subtotal 171 165 96 0.5 A
T 218 218 100 0.9 A
R 17 16 96 0.5 A
Subtotal 235 234 100 0.9 A
L 30 32 106 6.3 A
R 21 20 95 4.3 A
Subtotal 51 52 102 5.5 A
Total 457 451 99 1.3 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
223444
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Access 4 & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 2 1 50 5.0 A
R 10 9 88 3.0 A
Subtotal 12 10 83 3.2 A
L 18 18 101 4.4 A
R 7 8 110 2.9 A
Subtotal 25 26 104 3.9 A
L 3 3 100 1.5 A
T 45 47 104 0.4 A
R 1 2 200 0.3 A
Subtotal 49 52 106 0.5 A
L 5 4 76 2.0 A
T 35 31 89 0.3 A
R 7 8 110 0.2 A
Subtotal 47 43 91 0.4 A
Total 134 131 98 1.4 A
Intersection: Access 5 & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 3 3 100 4.7 A
R 13 14 110 2.7 A
Subtotal 16 17 106 3.1 A
L 16 15 95 4.3 A
R 10 11 107 3.1 A
Subtotal 26 26 100 3.8 A
L 6 5 80 1.6 A
T 19 22 116 0.0 A
R 2 2 100 0.0 A
Subtotal 27 29 107 0.3 A
L 5 4 76 1.7 A
T 30 27 90 0.4 A
R 8 9 109 0.2 A
Subtotal 43 40 93 0.5 A
Total 112 112 100 1.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
224445
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 6
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 7 5 69 2.9 A
T 223 220 99 1.0 A
R 38 40 106 0.9 A
Subtotal 268 265 99 1.0 A
L 36 33 92 2.9 A
T 153 155 101 0.6 A
R 9 10 108 0.3 A
Subtotal 198 198 100 1.0 A
L 18 18 101 6.9 A
T 3 4 133 8.2 A
R 12 13 111 2.7 A
Subtotal 33 35 106 5.5 A
L 61 56 92 8.0 A
T 3 4 133 11.9 B
R 60 62 104 4.3 A
Subtotal 124 122 98 6.2 A
Total 622 620 100 2.3 A
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
225446
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 199 199 100 13.6 B
T 5 6 114 14.0 B
R 15 17 111 7.7 A
Subtotal 219 222 101 13.2 B
T 40 39 97 0.6 A
R 30 33 108 0.2 A
Subtotal 70 72 103 0.4 A
L 314 309 98 4.9 A
T 40 44 109 4.0 A
Subtotal 354 353 100 4.8 A
Total 645 647 100 7.2 A
Intersection: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 20 17 86 9.3 A
T 5 5 95 9.8 A
R 126 128 101 0.8 A
Subtotal 151 150 99 2.1 A
L 20 20 101 6.6 A
T 219 217 99 1.5 A
Subtotal 239 237 99 1.9 A
T 334 336 101 8.3 A
R 161 164 102 4.3 A
Subtotal 495 500 101 7.0 A
Total 886 887 100 4.8 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
EB
WB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
226447
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Main Street & 100 South
Type: Signalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 270 270 100 18.9 B
T 323 336 104 6.4 A
Subtotal 593 606 102 12.0 B
T 160 156 97 5.5 A
R 225 230 102 3.1 A
Subtotal 385 386 100 4.1 A
L 215 214 100 16.0 B
T 1 0 0
R 130 129 99 4.9 A
Subtotal 346 343 99 11.8 B
Total 1,324 1,335 101 9.7 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 5 95 2.1 A
T 513 520 101 0.6 A
Subtotal 518 525 101 0.6 A
T 260 262 101 0.5 A
R 20 22 109 0.2 A
Subtotal 280 284 101 0.5 A
L 35 34 98 9.1 A
R 5 6 114 4.2 A
Subtotal 40 40 100 8.4 A
Total 838 849 101 0.9 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
227448
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 301 294 98 0.7 A
R 15 15 98 0.5 A
Subtotal 316 309 98 0.7 A
L 25 23 92 2.9 A
T 186 189 102 0.4 A
Subtotal 211 212 100 0.7 A
L 12 11 92 7.0 A
R 25 23 92 3.6 A
Subtotal 37 34 92 4.7 A
Total 564 555 98 0.9 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 15 15 98 2.1 A
T 184 187 101 0.8 A
Subtotal 199 202 102 0.9 A
T 201 198 98 0.9 A
R 30 31 104 0.5 A
Subtotal 231 229 99 0.8 A
L 39 34 88 6.3 A
T 3 4 133 0.2 A
R 33 34 103 3.3 A
Subtotal 75 72 96 4.5 A
Total 505 503 100 1.4 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
228449
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 4 84 1.9 A
T 126 126 100 0.3 A
Subtotal 131 130 99 0.3 A
T 245 248 101 0.4 A
R 10 10 103 0.2 A
Subtotal 255 258 101 0.4 A
L 20 20 100 5.7 A
R 5 6 126 3.0 A
Subtotal 25 26 104 5.1 A
Total 410 414 101 0.7 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 10 98 4.0 A
R 5 6 120 2.2 A
Subtotal 15 16 107 3.3 A
T 28 27 97 0.3 A
R 5 6 120 0.2 A
Subtotal 33 33 100 0.3 A
L 5 4 80 1.5 A
T 35 38 109 0.0 A
Subtotal 40 42 105 0.1 A
Total 88 91 103 0.8 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
NE
SW
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
229450
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 29 30 104 0.7 A
Subtotal 29 30 103 0.7 A
T 45 47 104 0.6 A
Subtotal 45 47 104 0.6 A
L 5 4 80 5.2 A
R 100 99 99 2.9 A
Subtotal 105 103 98 3.0 A
Total 179 180 101 2.0 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 20 19 96 3.1 A
T 118 117 99 1.1 A
R 18 21 115 0.8 A
Subtotal 156 157 101 1.3 A
L 5 4 80 1.9 A
T 240 237 99 0.6 A
R 5 6 120 0.2 A
Subtotal 250 247 99 0.6 A
L 5 4 80 7.3 A
T 5 5 100 7.5 A
R 60 57 95 1.4 A
Subtotal 70 66 94 2.2 A
L 135 136 101 7.8 A
T 6 5 91 8.6 A
R 5 5 100 5.6 A
Subtotal 146 146 100 7.8 A
Total 622 616 99 2.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
WB
SW
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
EB
230451
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 35 35 100 5.7 A
T 1 1 133 0.5 A
R 143 146 102 1.4 A
Subtotal 179 182 102 2.2 A
T 13 11 83 16.3 C
R 30 33 111 7.8 A
Subtotal 43 44 102 9.9 A
L 412 408 99 2.3 A
T 23 23 100 2.6 A
Subtotal 435 431 99 2.3 A
Total 657 657 100 2.8 A
Intersection: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 90 88 98 5.7 A
T 178 182 102 1.8 A
Subtotal 268 270 101 3.1 A
T 192 189 99 3.0 A
R 250 251 100 2.0 A
Subtotal 442 440 100 2.4 A
Total 710 710 100 2.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
231452
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 132 134 101 0.9 A
R 50 51 101 0.5 A
Subtotal 182 185 102 0.8 A
L 30 28 94 3.0 A
T 143 143 100 1.1 A
Subtotal 173 171 99 1.4 A
L 136 136 100 7.2 A
T 5 6 120 8.0 A
R 50 50 100 5.0 A
Subtotal 191 192 101 6.7 A
Total 546 548 100 3.1 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 1
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 20 19 95 2.8 A
T 226 221 98 0.7 A
Subtotal 246 240 98 0.9 A
T 187 185 99 0.8 A
R 24 25 104 0.5 A
Subtotal 211 210 100 0.8 A
L 43 41 95 6.9 A
R 30 31 102 3.8 A
Subtotal 73 72 99 5.6 A
Total 530 522 98 1.5 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
232453
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 2
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 25 22 88 2.3 A
T 199 198 100 1.2 A
Subtotal 224 220 98 1.3 A
T 187 186 100 0.8 A
R 31 30 96 0.6 A
Subtotal 218 216 99 0.8 A
L 54 51 94 7.7 A
R 37 36 98 4.2 A
Subtotal 91 87 96 6.3 A
Total 533 523 98 1.9 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 3
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 9 10 108 2.0 A
T 162 166 102 0.5 A
Subtotal 171 176 103 0.6 A
T 218 213 98 0.9 A
R 17 16 96 0.6 A
Subtotal 235 229 97 0.9 A
L 30 29 96 6.2 A
R 21 23 110 3.6 A
Subtotal 51 52 102 5.1 A
Total 457 457 100 1.2 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
233454
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Access 4 & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 2 2 100 3.1 A
R 10 9 88 3.0 A
Subtotal 12 11 92 3.0 A
L 18 17 96 4.3 A
R 7 8 110 2.8 A
Subtotal 25 25 100 3.8 A
L 3 3 100 1.9 A
T 45 44 98 0.5 A
R 1 1 100 0.5 A
Subtotal 49 48 98 0.6 A
L 5 5 95 1.6 A
T 35 36 104 0.3 A
R 7 6 83 0.2 A
Subtotal 47 47 100 0.4 A
Total 134 131 98 1.3 A
Intersection: Access 5 & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 3 2 67 3.9 A
R 13 12 94 2.8 A
Subtotal 16 14 88 3.0 A
L 16 12 76 4.5 A
R 10 11 107 2.9 A
Subtotal 26 23 88 3.7 A
L 6 5 80 1.6 A
T 19 21 111 0.1 A
R 2 2 100 0.1 A
Subtotal 27 28 104 0.4 A
L 5 4 76 1.7 A
T 30 32 107 0.5 A
R 8 9 109 0.1 A
Subtotal 43 45 105 0.5 A
Total 112 110 98 1.5 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
234455
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 6
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 7 5 69 2.5 A
T 223 219 98 1.1 A
R 38 36 95 0.8 A
Subtotal 268 260 97 1.1 A
L 36 36 101 3.0 A
T 153 154 101 0.6 A
R 9 10 108 0.4 A
Subtotal 198 200 101 1.0 A
L 18 17 96 6.7 A
T 3 2 67 7.1 A
R 12 13 111 2.9 A
Subtotal 33 32 97 5.2 A
L 61 56 92 8.1 A
T 3 4 133 8.1 A
R 60 58 97 4.5 A
Subtotal 124 118 95 6.3 A
Total 622 610 98 2.3 A
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
235456
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 194 188 97 7.9 A
T 5 4 80 8.0 A
R 25 26 103 4.9 A
Subtotal 224 218 97 7.5 A
T 45 44 97 0.5 A
R 25 26 103 0.1 A
Subtotal 70 70 100 0.4 A
L 174 171 98 3.9 A
T 35 35 99 3.0 A
Subtotal 209 206 99 3.7 A
Total 504 494 98 5.0 A
Intersection: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 9 90 27.5 D
T 5 5 100 54.1 F
R 349 346 99 33.3 D
Subtotal 364 360 99 33.4 D
L 15 13 87 7.6 A
T 224 220 98 6.7 A
Subtotal 239 233 97 6.8 A
T 199 196 98 7.8 A
R 190 202 106 3.7 A
Subtotal 389 398 102 5.7 A
Total 992 991 100 16.1 C
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
EB
WB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
236457
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Main Street & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 219 224 102 9.7 A
T 269 259 96 6.6 A
Subtotal 488 483 99 8.0 A
T 325 320 98 2.4 A
R 170 175 103 1.3 A
Subtotal 495 495 100 2.0 A
L 250 232 93 260.8 F
R 323 319 99 45.8 E
Subtotal 573 551 96 136.3 F
Total 1,556 1,529 98 55.3 F
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 15 13 87 4.8 A
T 417 417 100 0.8 A
Subtotal 432 430 100 0.9 A
T 558 562 101 0.9 A
R 35 34 96 0.3 A
Subtotal 593 596 101 0.9 A
L 20 20 99 13.7 B
R 10 11 113 5.0 A
Subtotal 30 31 103 10.6 B
Total 1,056 1,057 100 1.2 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
237458
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 296 299 101 0.8 A
R 13 13 98 0.7 A
Subtotal 309 312 101 0.8 A
L 15 14 95 2.8 A
T 336 333 99 0.4 A
Subtotal 351 347 99 0.5 A
L 11 11 98 8.6 A
R 15 18 122 4.1 A
Subtotal 26 29 112 5.8 A
Total 686 688 100 0.9 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 38 40 105 2.9 A
T 270 269 100 1.4 A
Subtotal 308 309 100 1.6 A
T 243 242 99 1.6 A
R 59 58 98 0.7 A
Subtotal 302 300 99 1.4 A
L 39 37 95 8.3 A
R 32 32 101 3.2 A
Subtotal 71 69 97 5.9 A
Total 681 678 100 1.9 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
238459
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 10 103 2.0 A
T 290 293 101 0.6 A
Subtotal 300 303 101 0.6 A
T 198 193 97 0.5 A
R 20 21 106 0.2 A
Subtotal 218 214 98 0.5 A
L 10 10 103 6.0 A
R 5 7 133 3.6 A
Subtotal 15 17 113 5.0 A
Total 532 534 100 0.7 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 3 60 4.3 A
R 5 6 120 2.4 A
Subtotal 10 9 90 3.0 A
T 49 47 95 0.6 A
R 10 11 107 0.5 A
Subtotal 59 58 98 0.6 A
L 5 5 100 1.9 A
T 39 38 97 0.1 A
Subtotal 44 43 98 0.3 A
Total 114 110 97 0.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
NE
SW
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
239460
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 50 50 100 0.7 A
Subtotal 50 50 100 0.7 A
T 45 42 94 0.5 A
Subtotal 45 42 93 0.5 A
L 10 10 98 4.6 A
R 80 82 102 2.9 A
Subtotal 90 92 102 3.1 A
Total 185 184 99 1.9 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 40 42 105 3.6 A
T 251 246 98 1.7 A
R 39 40 103 1.1 A
Subtotal 330 328 99 1.9 A
L 5 5 100 2.0 A
T 179 178 99 0.4 A
R 5 6 120 0.2 A
Subtotal 189 189 100 0.4 A
L 5 4 80 6.7 A
T 5 5 100 8.1 A
R 35 37 106 1.3 A
Subtotal 45 46 102 2.5 A
L 104 100 96 9.3 A
T 6 7 122 9.0 A
R 15 16 105 5.5 A
Subtotal 125 123 98 8.8 A
Total 689 686 100 2.8 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
WB
SW
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
EB
240461
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 15 15 98 4.0 A
T 25 25 101 0.3 A
R 300 296 99 0.9 A
Subtotal 340 336 99 1.0 A
T 20 20 101 18.6 C
R 40 41 102 6.9 A
Subtotal 60 61 102 10.7 B
L 314 313 100 1.8 A
T 19 17 88 1.9 A
Subtotal 333 330 99 1.8 A
Total 733 727 99 2.2 A
Intersection: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 65 65 100 4.3 A
T 340 337 99 1.4 A
Subtotal 405 402 99 1.9 A
T 146 145 99 2.2 A
R 208 209 100 1.6 A
Subtotal 354 354 100 1.8 A
Total 759 756 100 1.9 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
241462
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 138 140 101 1.0 A
R 50 52 103 0.5 A
Subtotal 188 192 102 0.9 A
L 20 21 106 3.0 A
T 107 104 97 1.0 A
Subtotal 127 125 98 1.3 A
L 267 262 98 8.9 A
T 5 4 80 10.6 B
R 105 108 103 7.2 A
Subtotal 377 374 99 8.4 A
Total 692 691 100 5.1 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 1
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 39 37 95 3.8 A
T 269 266 99 1.0 A
Subtotal 308 303 98 1.3 A
T 306 300 98 1.3 A
R 54 56 103 1.0 A
Subtotal 360 356 99 1.3 A
L 38 38 101 9.2 A
R 26 27 103 5.2 A
Subtotal 64 65 102 7.5 A
Total 733 724 99 1.9 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
242463
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 2
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 48 48 99 3.3 A
T 261 257 99 1.9 A
Subtotal 309 305 99 2.1 A
T 267 263 98 1.2 A
R 65 63 97 0.9 A
Subtotal 332 326 98 1.1 A
L 49 48 97 9.3 A
R 34 35 104 4.6 A
Subtotal 83 83 100 7.3 A
Total 724 714 99 2.3 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 3
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 24 24 100 2.3 A
T 276 278 101 0.8 A
Subtotal 300 302 101 0.9 A
T 236 233 99 1.6 A
R 38 40 106 0.9 A
Subtotal 274 273 100 1.5 A
L 30 30 99 7.3 A
R 18 17 96 4.0 A
Subtotal 48 47 98 6.1 A
Total 622 622 100 1.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
243464
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Access 4 & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 2 1 50 4.0 A
R 10 10 98 2.9 A
Subtotal 12 11 92 3.0 A
L 19 18 95 4.3 A
R 7 8 110 3.0 A
Subtotal 26 26 100 3.9 A
L 8 7 85 2.1 A
T 27 27 99 0.6 A
R 2 4 200 0.3 A
Subtotal 37 38 103 0.8 A
L 8 6 73 1.9 A
T 62 63 102 0.5 A
R 27 29 106 0.3 A
Subtotal 97 98 101 0.5 A
Total 173 173 100 1.2 A
Intersection: Access 5 & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 4 3 71 4.5 A
R 8 9 109 2.9 A
Subtotal 12 12 100 3.3 A
L 19 17 89 4.2 A
R 8 9 109 3.0 A
Subtotal 27 26 96 3.8 A
L 14 11 80 1.7 A
T 10 12 117 0.0 A
R 4 5 118 0.1 A
Subtotal 28 28 100 0.7 A
L 11 9 84 1.5 A
T 9 11 119 0.6 A
R 26 28 107 0.3 A
Subtotal 46 48 104 0.6 A
Total 114 114 100 1.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
244465
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 6
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 15 14 95 3.8 A
T 215 216 100 1.5 A
R 78 74 95 1.0 A
Subtotal 308 304 99 1.5 A
L 76 76 100 4.0 A
T 286 285 100 1.4 A
R 20 17 85 1.0 A
Subtotal 382 378 99 1.9 A
L 14 14 102 9.0 A
T 6 4 64 11.7 B
R 11 12 112 3.8 A
Subtotal 31 30 97 7.3 A
L 73 71 97 13.1 B
T 6 7 112 16.3 C
R 56 55 99 6.7 A
Subtotal 135 133 99 10.6 B
Total 856 845 99 3.4 A
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
245466
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 194 196 101 8.2 A
T 5 6 120 7.2 A
R 25 26 103 5.3 A
Subtotal 224 228 102 7.8 A
T 45 40 88 0.5 A
R 25 28 111 0.2 A
Subtotal 70 68 97 0.4 A
L 174 170 98 4.1 A
T 35 34 96 3.2 A
Subtotal 209 204 98 4.0 A
Total 504 500 99 5.3 A
Intersection: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 9 90 7.7 A
T 5 4 80 11.0 B
R 349 346 99 1.4 A
Subtotal 364 359 99 1.7 A
L 15 14 93 5.2 A
T 224 222 99 1.3 A
Subtotal 239 236 99 1.5 A
T 199 194 97 8.5 A
R 190 189 99 4.2 A
Subtotal 389 383 98 6.4 A
Total 992 978 99 3.5 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
EB
WB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
246467
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Main Street & 100 South
Type: Signalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 219 213 97 18.1 B
T 269 270 100 5.3 A
Subtotal 488 483 99 10.9 B
T 325 328 101 7.0 A
R 170 168 99 3.0 A
Subtotal 495 496 100 5.6 A
L 250 246 98 18.3 B
R 323 323 100 10.1 B
Subtotal 573 569 99 13.6 B
Total 1,556 1,548 99 10.3 B
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 15 14 93 4.4 A
T 417 437 105 0.9 A
Subtotal 432 451 104 1.0 A
T 558 564 101 1.0 A
R 35 38 108 0.4 A
Subtotal 593 602 102 1.0 A
L 20 19 94 13.1 B
R 10 12 123 5.2 A
Subtotal 30 31 103 10.0 A
Total 1,056 1,084 103 1.2 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
247468
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 296 299 101 0.8 A
R 13 16 121 0.6 A
Subtotal 309 315 102 0.8 A
L 15 15 102 3.0 A
T 336 337 100 0.5 A
Subtotal 351 352 100 0.6 A
L 11 8 71 9.0 A
R 15 16 108 4.1 A
Subtotal 26 24 92 5.7 A
Total 686 691 101 0.9 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 38 33 87 3.2 A
T 270 268 99 1.5 A
Subtotal 308 301 98 1.7 A
T 243 251 103 1.6 A
R 59 60 101 0.7 A
Subtotal 302 311 103 1.4 A
L 39 38 97 8.3 A
R 32 32 101 3.7 A
Subtotal 71 70 99 6.2 A
Total 681 682 100 2.0 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
248469
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 10 103 2.0 A
T 290 282 97 0.6 A
Subtotal 300 292 97 0.6 A
T 198 201 101 0.5 A
R 20 20 101 0.2 A
Subtotal 218 221 101 0.5 A
L 10 7 72 7.6 A
R 5 6 114 2.9 A
Subtotal 15 13 87 5.4 A
Total 532 526 99 0.7 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 4 80 4.4 A
R 5 6 120 2.6 A
Subtotal 10 10 100 3.3 A
T 49 48 97 0.4 A
R 10 11 107 0.5 A
Subtotal 59 59 100 0.4 A
L 5 3 60 2.3 A
T 39 40 103 0.1 A
Subtotal 44 43 98 0.3 A
Total 114 112 99 0.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
NE
SW
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
249470
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 50 52 103 0.7 A
Subtotal 50 52 104 0.7 A
T 45 45 101 0.6 A
Subtotal 45 45 100 0.6 A
L 10 10 98 4.4 A
R 80 76 95 2.9 A
Subtotal 90 86 96 3.1 A
Total 185 183 99 1.8 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 40 40 100 3.4 A
T 251 257 102 1.8 A
R 39 41 105 1.2 A
Subtotal 330 338 102 1.9 A
L 5 4 80 3.3 A
T 179 181 101 0.5 A
R 5 5 100 0.2 A
Subtotal 189 190 101 0.6 A
L 5 4 80 7.5 A
T 5 6 120 7.3 A
R 35 38 109 1.3 A
Subtotal 45 48 107 2.6 A
L 104 99 95 9.7 A
T 6 5 87 9.6 A
R 15 16 105 4.9 A
Subtotal 125 120 96 9.1 A
Total 689 696 101 2.8 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
WB
SW
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
EB
250471
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 15 14 92 4.7 A
T 25 24 97 0.4 A
R 300 306 102 1.0 A
Subtotal 340 344 101 1.1 A
T 20 19 96 15.5 C
R 40 40 100 6.9 A
Subtotal 60 59 98 9.7 A
L 314 312 99 1.9 A
T 19 22 114 1.9 A
Subtotal 333 334 100 1.9 A
Total 733 737 101 2.1 A
Intersection: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 65 69 107 4.6 A
T 340 345 101 1.5 A
Subtotal 405 414 102 2.0 A
T 146 150 103 2.1 A
R 208 202 97 1.5 A
Subtotal 354 352 99 1.8 A
Total 759 766 101 1.9 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
251472
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 138 142 103 1.0 A
R 50 52 103 0.4 A
Subtotal 188 194 103 0.8 A
L 20 18 91 2.9 A
T 107 110 103 0.9 A
Subtotal 127 128 101 1.2 A
L 267 273 102 10.2 B
T 5 5 100 13.1 B
R 105 104 99 7.6 A
Subtotal 377 382 101 9.5 A
Total 692 704 102 5.6 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 1
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 39 38 98 3.8 A
T 269 261 97 1.0 A
Subtotal 308 299 97 1.4 A
T 306 314 102 1.4 A
R 54 52 96 1.1 A
Subtotal 360 366 102 1.4 A
L 38 37 98 9.3 A
R 26 27 103 4.8 A
Subtotal 64 64 100 7.4 A
Total 733 729 99 1.9 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
252473
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 2
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 48 49 102 3.8 A
T 261 258 99 2.2 A
Subtotal 309 307 99 2.5 A
T 267 274 103 1.5 A
R 65 66 102 0.9 A
Subtotal 332 340 102 1.4 A
L 49 44 89 11.2 B
R 34 36 107 5.1 A
Subtotal 83 80 96 8.5 A
Total 724 727 100 2.6 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 3
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 24 22 92 2.1 A
T 276 271 98 0.8 A
Subtotal 300 293 98 0.9 A
T 236 242 102 1.6 A
R 38 39 103 1.0 A
Subtotal 274 281 103 1.5 A
L 30 28 93 7.1 A
R 18 19 107 4.0 A
Subtotal 48 47 98 5.8 A
Total 622 621 100 1.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
253474
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Access 4 & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 2 2 100 3.5 A
R 10 10 98 2.8 A
Subtotal 12 12 100 2.9 A
L 19 18 95 4.3 A
R 7 10 138 2.7 A
Subtotal 26 28 108 3.7 A
L 8 8 97 2.1 A
T 27 28 103 0.6 A
R 2 3 150 0.4 A
Subtotal 37 39 105 0.9 A
L 8 6 73 2.0 A
T 62 58 94 0.5 A
R 27 27 99 0.3 A
Subtotal 97 91 94 0.5 A
Total 173 170 98 1.3 A
Intersection: Access 5 & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 4 4 94 3.9 A
R 8 10 121 3.1 A
Subtotal 12 14 117 3.3 A
L 19 17 89 4.3 A
R 8 9 109 2.8 A
Subtotal 27 26 96 3.8 A
L 14 13 95 1.5 A
T 10 11 107 0.1 A
R 4 4 94 0.0 A
Subtotal 28 28 100 0.7 A
L 11 9 84 1.6 A
T 9 10 108 0.6 A
R 26 28 107 0.3 A
Subtotal 46 47 102 0.6 A
Total 114 115 101 1.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
254475
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 6
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 15 14 95 3.8 A
T 215 212 98 1.5 A
R 78 72 93 1.0 A
Subtotal 308 298 97 1.5 A
L 76 74 97 3.8 A
T 286 287 100 1.5 A
R 20 22 110 0.8 A
Subtotal 382 383 100 1.9 A
L 14 15 109 10.9 B
T 6 6 96 14.3 B
R 11 12 112 4.8 A
Subtotal 31 33 106 9.3 A
L 73 76 104 12.2 B
T 6 8 123 12.8 B
R 56 63 113 6.2 A
Subtotal 135 147 109 9.7 A
Total 856 861 101 3.4 A
Intersection: Access 6 & Access 7
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
R 58 62 107 3.1 A
Subtotal 58 62 107 3.1 A
L 58 56 97 2.3 A
T 103 98 95 0.9 A
Subtotal 161 154 96 1.4 A
T 78 84 108 0.3 A
Subtotal 78 84 108 0.3 A
Total 296 300 101 1.5 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
EB
WB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
255476
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 242 238 98 23.5 C
T 5 4 84 33.3 D
R 20 20 101 21.7 C
Subtotal 267 262 98 23.5 C
T 50 48 96 0.8 A
R 35 34 98 0.2 A
Subtotal 85 82 96 0.6 A
L 425 396 93 5.5 A
T 45 44 98 5.2 A
Subtotal 470 440 94 5.5 A
Total 821 784 95 11.0 B
Intersection: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 20 20 101 11.8 B
T 5 6 126 14.0 B
R 180 191 106 1.0 A
Subtotal 205 217 106 2.4 A
L 25 20 79 7.9 A
T 268 268 100 1.7 A
Subtotal 293 288 98 2.1 A
T 450 422 94 10.3 B
R 211 203 96 4.8 A
Subtotal 661 625 95 8.5 A
Total 1,158 1,130 98 5.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
EB
WB
256477
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Main Street & 100 South
Type: Signalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 396 371 94 55.3 E
T 517 481 93 18.8 B
Subtotal 913 852 93 34.7 C
T 265 260 98 7.2 A
R 265 254 96 3.5 A
Subtotal 530 514 97 5.4 A
L 245 242 99 24.1 C
T 1 1 100 0.5 A
R 202 216 107 8.0 A
Subtotal 448 459 102 16.5 B
Total 1,891 1,825 96 22.0 C
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 4 76 5.2 A
T 834 833 100 2.1 A
Subtotal 839 837 100 2.1 A
T 427 436 102 0.6 A
R 20 19 94 0.2 A
Subtotal 447 455 102 0.6 A
L 40 37 92 18.3 C
R 5 7 133 4.5 A
Subtotal 45 44 98 16.1 C
Total 1,332 1,336 100 2.0 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
257478
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 550 558 102 1.1 A
R 16 17 105 0.9 A
Subtotal 566 575 102 1.1 A
L 30 32 106 9.2 A
T 399 402 101 5.1 A
Subtotal 429 434 101 5.4 A
L 18 17 93 14.6 B
R 30 35 116 6.8 A
Subtotal 48 52 108 9.4 A
Total 1,044 1,061 102 3.3 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 17 15 90 3.2 A
T 326 330 101 0.7 A
Subtotal 343 345 101 0.8 A
T 366 364 99 0.8 A
R 39 39 101 0.5 A
Subtotal 405 403 100 0.8 A
L 50 54 109 11.4 B
T 3 4 133 0.1 A
R 35 33 94 5.5 A
Subtotal 88 91 103 8.8 A
Total 836 839 100 1.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
258479
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 4 84 3.0 A
T 214 220 103 0.5 A
Subtotal 219 224 102 0.5 A
T 401 391 98 0.6 A
R 15 17 111 0.3 A
Subtotal 416 408 98 0.6 A
L 20 20 100 7.4 A
R 5 5 105 5.5 A
Subtotal 25 25 100 7.0 A
Total 660 657 100 0.9 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 8 78 3.8 A
R 5 6 120 2.4 A
Subtotal 15 14 93 3.2 A
T 35 34 97 0.4 A
R 5 6 120 0.2 A
Subtotal 40 40 100 0.4 A
L 5 4 80 1.9 A
T 53 56 105 0.1 A
Subtotal 58 60 103 0.2 A
Total 114 114 100 0.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
NE
SW
259480
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 36 36 100 0.7 A
Subtotal 36 36 100 0.7 A
T 64 64 101 0.7 A
Subtotal 64 64 100 0.7 A
L 5 4 80 4.8 A
R 120 128 107 3.4 A
Subtotal 125 132 106 3.4 A
Total 224 232 103 2.3 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 25 24 97 4.1 A
T 199 194 97 2.0 A
R 25 27 109 1.2 A
Subtotal 249 245 98 2.1 A
L 5 4 80 2.1 A
T 388 389 100 0.8 A
R 5 7 140 0.4 A
Subtotal 398 400 101 0.8 A
L 5 6 120 11.8 B
T 5 5 100 12.5 B
R 70 72 103 2.0 A
Subtotal 80 83 104 3.3 A
L 168 174 103 14.7 B
T 5 6 120 13.8 B
R 10 12 117 8.0 A
Subtotal 183 192 105 14.3 B
Total 910 920 101 4.2 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
EB
WB
SW
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
260481
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 40 41 102 12.4 B
R 228 224 98 3.8 A
Subtotal 268 265 99 5.1 A
T 21 20 96 44.2 E
R 35 37 106 17.0 C
Subtotal 56 57 102 26.5 D
L 587 594 101 3.3 A
T 39 42 107 2.8 A
Subtotal 626 636 102 3.3 A
Total 950 958 101 5.1 A
Intersection: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 105 104 99 9.5 A
T 268 268 100 3.8 A
Subtotal 373 372 100 5.4 A
T 246 247 100 4.3 A
R 375 383 102 3.1 A
Subtotal 621 630 101 3.6 A
Total 995 1,002 101 4.2 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
261482
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 165 171 104 1.1 A
R 60 58 97 0.4 A
Subtotal 225 229 102 0.9 A
L 35 33 94 3.5 A
T 188 190 101 1.4 A
Subtotal 223 223 100 1.7 A
L 208 201 97 9.6 A
T 5 4 80 12.7 B
R 60 59 99 7.0 A
Subtotal 273 264 97 9.1 A
Total 720 716 99 4.2 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 1
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 20 19 95 4.3 A
T 388 394 102 0.7 A
Subtotal 408 413 101 0.9 A
T 353 358 101 1.2 A
R 44 42 95 1.1 A
Subtotal 397 400 101 1.2 A
L 43 40 93 12.9 B
R 30 32 106 5.2 A
Subtotal 73 72 99 9.5 A
Total 878 885 101 1.8 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
262483
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 2
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 25 24 96 3.2 A
T 340 346 102 1.4 A
R 12 14 119 0.4 A
Subtotal 377 384 102 1.5 A
L 13 11 86 3.6 A
T 336 341 101 1.1 A
R 35 38 109 0.8 A
Subtotal 384 390 102 1.1 A
L 54 56 103 11.5 B
R 37 34 93 6.1 A
Subtotal 91 90 99 9.5 A
L 19 16 84 11.9 B
R 26 27 103 5.7 A
Subtotal 45 43 96 8.0 A
Total 897 907 101 2.4 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 3
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 17 17 101 2.3 A
T 252 253 100 0.6 A
Subtotal 269 270 100 0.7 A
T 358 359 100 0.9 A
R 26 24 91 0.3 A
Subtotal 384 383 100 0.9 A
L 40 43 108 8.1 A
R 29 28 96 4.9 A
Subtotal 69 71 103 6.8 A
Total 722 724 100 1.4 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
263484
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Access 4 & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 3 2 67 5.3 A
R 15 17 115 2.9 A
Subtotal 18 19 106 3.2 A
L 18 17 96 4.3 A
R 8 9 109 3.1 A
Subtotal 26 26 100 3.9 A
L 3 4 133 1.5 A
T 53 55 103 0.4 A
R 1 1 100 0.4 A
Subtotal 57 60 105 0.5 A
L 5 4 76 1.9 A
T 43 44 102 0.4 A
R 10 10 98 0.4 A
Subtotal 58 58 100 0.5 A
Total 160 163 102 1.3 A
Intersection: Access 5 & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 4 3 71 4.5 A
R 13 15 118 2.8 A
Subtotal 17 18 106 3.1 A
L 16 14 89 4.2 A
R 8 9 109 3.0 A
Subtotal 24 23 96 3.7 A
L 6 5 80 1.6 A
T 27 30 110 0.1 A
R 3 3 100 0.0 A
Subtotal 36 38 106 0.3 A
L 5 4 76 1.6 A
T 36 40 110 0.5 A
R 11 10 93 0.3 A
Subtotal 52 54 104 0.5 A
Total 130 133 102 1.4 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
264485
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 6
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 34 31 93 3.6 A
T 342 349 102 1.3 A
R 55 55 100 1.0 A
Subtotal 431 435 101 1.4 A
L 57 54 95 4.6 A
T 242 248 102 1.3 A
R 81 80 99 1.2 A
Subtotal 380 382 101 1.7 A
L 102 99 97 17.0 C
T 5 5 95 21.0 C
R 50 52 103 10.5 B
Subtotal 157 156 99 15.0 B
L 126 124 99 23.0 C
T 13 13 102 23.9 C
R 106 108 102 17.5 C
Subtotal 245 245 100 20.6 C
Total 1,211 1,218 101 7.1 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 7
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 277 280 101 0.8 A
R 16 17 108 0.3 A
Subtotal 293 297 101 0.8 A
L 27 24 88 2.4 A
T 374 374 100 0.7 A
Subtotal 401 398 99 0.8 A
L 23 23 100 8.3 A
R 55 54 99 4.4 A
Subtotal 78 77 99 5.6 A
Total 772 772 100 1.2 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
WB
265486
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Spring Canyon Road & Access 8
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 1 0 0
R 4 4 94 2.0 A
Subtotal 5 4 80 2.0 A
T 46 49 105 0.4 A
Subtotal 46 49 107 0.4 A
T 34 38 113 0.1 A
Subtotal 34 38 112 0.1 A
Total 86 91 106 0.4 A
Intersection: Spring Canyon Road & Access 9
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 1 0 0
R 2 4 200 2.8 A
Subtotal 3 4 133 2.8 A
T 41 42 103 0.1 A
Subtotal 41 42 102 0.1 A
Total 44 46 105 0.3 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
EB
266487
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 10
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 739 742 100 5.5 A
R 13 12 94 6.0 A
Subtotal 752 754 100 5.5 A
L 32 32 99 7.6 A
T 409 420 103 1.2 A
Subtotal 441 452 102 1.7 A
L 29 27 92 19.6 C
R 84 82 98 12.3 B
Subtotal 113 109 96 14.1 B
Total 1,306 1,315 101 4.9 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
267488
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South
Type: Signalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 242 236 98 12.1 B
T 5 5 105 10.9 B
R 20 22 111 3.2 A
Subtotal 267 263 99 11.3 B
T 50 51 103 4.5 A
R 35 39 112 1.8 A
Subtotal 85 90 106 3.3 A
L 425 414 97 15.0 B
T 45 45 100 6.8 A
Subtotal 470 459 98 14.2 B
Total 821 812 99 12.1 B
Intersection: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 20 18 91 12.9 B
T 5 4 84 15.3 C
R 180 182 101 0.9 A
Subtotal 205 204 100 2.2 A
L 25 25 99 8.1 A
T 268 262 98 2.3 A
Subtotal 293 287 98 2.8 A
T 450 442 98 11.0 B
R 211 217 103 5.3 A
Subtotal 661 659 100 9.1 A
Total 1,158 1,150 99 6.4 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
EB
WB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
268489
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Main Street & 100 South
Type: Signalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 396 390 98 22.4 C
T 517 516 100 10.3 B
Subtotal 913 906 99 15.5 B
T 265 267 101 22.8 C
R 265 268 101 11.2 B
Subtotal 530 535 101 17.0 B
L 245 241 98 29.7 C
T 1 2 200 1.2 A
R 202 202 100 6.1 A
Subtotal 448 445 99 18.9 B
Total 1,891 1,886 100 16.8 B
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 5 95 4.2 A
T 834 848 102 1.9 A
Subtotal 839 853 102 1.9 A
T 427 430 101 0.3 A
R 20 18 89 0.1 A
Subtotal 447 448 100 0.3 A
L 40 40 100 23.6 C
R 5 5 95 4.3 A
Subtotal 45 45 100 21.5 C
Total 1,332 1,346 101 2.0 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
269490
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 550 552 100 1.6 A
R 16 19 117 1.2 A
Subtotal 566 571 101 1.6 A
L 30 29 96 9.8 A
T 399 402 101 5.0 A
Subtotal 429 431 100 5.3 A
L 18 19 104 12.8 B
R 30 31 102 6.1 A
Subtotal 48 50 104 8.6 A
Total 1,044 1,052 101 3.5 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 17 16 96 2.9 A
T 326 334 103 0.7 A
Subtotal 343 350 102 0.8 A
T 366 368 100 0.9 A
R 39 36 93 0.5 A
Subtotal 405 404 100 0.9 A
L 50 51 103 11.0 B
T 3 4 133 0.3 A
R 35 36 102 5.8 A
Subtotal 88 91 103 8.5 A
Total 836 845 101 1.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
270491
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 5 105 3.5 A
T 214 214 100 0.6 A
Subtotal 219 219 100 0.7 A
T 401 400 100 0.7 A
R 15 18 118 0.3 A
Subtotal 416 418 100 0.7 A
L 20 18 90 7.8 A
R 5 5 105 4.3 A
Subtotal 25 23 92 7.0 A
Total 660 660 100 0.9 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 8 78 4.1 A
R 5 5 100 2.1 A
Subtotal 15 13 87 3.3 A
T 35 32 91 0.5 A
R 5 6 120 0.5 A
Subtotal 40 38 95 0.5 A
L 5 4 80 1.5 A
T 53 53 100 0.1 A
Subtotal 58 57 98 0.2 A
Total 114 108 95 0.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
NE
SW
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
271492
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 36 34 94 0.8 A
Subtotal 36 34 94 0.8 A
T 64 61 96 0.7 A
Subtotal 64 61 95 0.7 A
L 5 5 100 5.2 A
R 120 116 97 3.2 A
Subtotal 125 121 97 3.3 A
Total 224 216 96 2.1 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 25 26 105 4.3 A
T 199 199 100 1.3 A
R 25 23 93 1.0 A
Subtotal 249 248 100 1.6 A
L 5 5 100 2.6 A
T 388 389 100 0.8 A
R 5 6 120 0.2 A
Subtotal 398 400 101 0.8 A
L 5 4 80 12.9 B
T 5 5 100 14.2 B
R 70 67 96 1.9 A
Subtotal 80 76 95 3.3 A
L 168 158 94 14.0 B
T 5 6 120 13.4 B
R 10 13 127 7.9 A
Subtotal 183 177 97 13.5 B
Total 910 901 99 3.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
WB
SW
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
EB
272493
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway
Type: All-way Stop Controlled
Avg % Avg LOS
L 40 40 100 7.5 A
R 228 228 100 5.4 A
Subtotal 268 268 100 5.7 A
T 21 20 96 6.5 A
R 35 38 109 4.0 A
Subtotal 56 58 104 4.9 A
L 587 570 97 12.8 B
T 39 43 110 13.2 B
Subtotal 626 613 98 12.8 B
Total 950 939 99 10.3 B
Intersection: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 105 105 100 9.6 A
T 268 269 100 4.1 A
Subtotal 373 374 100 5.6 A
T 246 241 98 3.4 A
R 375 367 98 2.3 A
Subtotal 621 608 98 2.7 A
Total 995 982 99 3.9 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
273494
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 165 165 100 1.1 A
R 60 61 102 0.5 A
Subtotal 225 226 100 0.9 A
L 35 31 89 3.3 A
T 188 184 98 1.1 A
Subtotal 223 215 96 1.4 A
L 208 209 100 9.3 A
T 5 5 100 10.3 B
R 60 62 104 3.7 A
Subtotal 273 276 101 8.1 A
Total 720 717 100 3.8 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 1
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 20 22 110 4.0 A
T 388 395 102 0.7 A
Subtotal 408 417 102 0.9 A
T 353 347 98 1.7 A
R 44 52 118 1.5 A
Subtotal 397 399 101 1.7 A
L 43 42 98 11.9 B
R 30 34 112 5.8 A
Subtotal 73 76 104 9.2 A
Total 878 892 102 2.0 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
274495
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 2
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 25 24 96 3.5 A
T 340 349 103 1.4 A
R 12 13 111 0.3 A
Subtotal 377 386 102 1.5 A
L 13 13 102 4.4 A
T 336 332 99 1.1 A
R 35 37 106 0.8 A
Subtotal 384 382 99 1.2 A
L 54 54 100 14.1 B
R 37 38 103 4.4 A
Subtotal 91 92 101 10.1 A
L 19 19 100 10.9 B
R 26 27 103 5.6 A
Subtotal 45 46 102 7.8 A
Total 897 906 101 2.5 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 3
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 17 14 84 2.3 A
T 252 257 102 0.5 A
Subtotal 269 271 101 0.6 A
T 358 361 101 1.0 A
R 26 28 107 0.3 A
Subtotal 384 389 101 0.9 A
L 40 39 98 8.6 A
R 29 35 120 4.7 A
Subtotal 69 74 107 6.8 A
Total 722 734 102 1.4 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
275496
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Access 4 & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 3 2 67 5.5 A
R 15 16 108 3.0 A
Subtotal 18 18 100 3.3 A
L 18 18 101 4.5 A
R 8 9 109 2.9 A
Subtotal 26 27 104 4.0 A
L 3 3 100 1.9 A
T 53 56 105 0.5 A
R 1 2 200 0.3 A
Subtotal 57 61 107 0.6 A
L 5 4 76 1.8 A
T 43 41 95 0.4 A
R 10 10 98 0.2 A
Subtotal 58 55 95 0.5 A
Total 160 161 101 1.4 A
Intersection: Access 5 & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 4 4 94 3.6 A
R 13 13 102 2.9 A
Subtotal 17 17 100 3.1 A
L 16 17 108 4.0 A
R 8 7 85 2.9 A
Subtotal 24 24 100 3.7 A
L 6 5 80 1.6 A
T 27 30 110 0.1 A
R 3 3 100 0.0 A
Subtotal 36 38 106 0.3 A
L 5 4 76 1.7 A
T 36 36 99 0.5 A
R 11 11 102 0.2 A
Subtotal 52 51 98 0.5 A
Total 130 130 100 1.4 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
276497
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 6
Type: Signalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 34 30 90 11.3 B
T 342 346 101 7.1 A
R 55 58 106 2.8 A
Subtotal 431 434 101 6.8 A
L 57 58 102 13.0 B
T 242 241 100 5.7 A
R 81 80 99 3.1 A
Subtotal 380 379 100 6.3 A
L 102 103 101 12.6 B
T 5 6 114 7.5 A
R 50 51 101 3.6 A
Subtotal 157 160 102 9.5 A
L 126 130 103 12.4 B
T 13 12 94 9.2 A
R 106 106 100 5.7 A
Subtotal 245 248 101 9.4 A
Total 1,211 1,221 101 7.5 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 7
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 277 283 102 0.7 A
R 16 15 95 0.2 A
Subtotal 293 298 102 0.7 A
L 27 26 95 2.7 A
T 374 378 101 0.7 A
Subtotal 401 404 101 0.8 A
L 23 24 104 9.2 A
R 55 57 104 5.0 A
Subtotal 78 81 104 6.2 A
Total 772 783 101 1.3 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
WB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
277498
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Spring Canyon Road & Access 8
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 1 0 0
R 4 5 118 1.8 A
Subtotal 5 5 100 1.8 A
T 46 48 103 0.4 A
Subtotal 46 48 104 0.4 A
T 34 34 101 0.1 A
Subtotal 34 34 100 0.1 A
Total 86 87 102 0.4 A
Intersection: Spring Canyon Road & Access 9
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 1 0 0
R 2 2 100 3.1 A
Subtotal 3 2 67 3.1 A
T 41 40 98 0.1 A
Subtotal 41 40 98 0.1 A
Total 44 42 96 0.2 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
EB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
278499
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 10
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 739 745 101 5.6 A
R 13 13 102 4.5 A
Subtotal 752 758 101 5.6 A
L 32 27 84 7.4 A
T 409 416 102 1.1 A
Subtotal 441 443 100 1.5 A
L 29 28 96 17.8 C
R 84 86 103 11.5 B
Subtotal 113 114 101 13.0 B
Total 1,306 1,315 101 4.9 A
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
279500
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 262 275 105 13.3 B
T 5 4 80 14.3 B
R 25 28 111 10.0 A
Subtotal 292 307 105 13.0 B
T 55 56 102 0.6 A
R 30 29 96 0.1 A
Subtotal 85 85 100 0.4 A
L 264 244 93 4.8 A
T 41 37 90 4.1 A
Subtotal 305 281 92 4.7 A
Total 682 673 99 8.0 A
Intersection: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 15 14 93 10.7 B
T 5 5 100 11.7 B
R 470 475 101 2.2 A
Subtotal 490 494 101 2.5 A
L 20 19 94 5.6 A
T 297 313 105 1.5 A
Subtotal 317 332 105 1.7 A
T 290 268 92 9.9 A
R 248 225 91 4.6 A
Subtotal 538 493 92 7.5 A
Total 1,346 1,319 98 4.2 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
EB
WB
280501
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Main Street & 100 South
Type: Signalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 337 298 88 118.3 F
T 437 401 92 35.7 D
Subtotal 774 699 90 70.9 E
T 546 534 98 9.2 A
R 200 195 98 3.4 A
Subtotal 746 729 98 7.6 A
L 285 290 102 40.9 D
T 0 0 0
R 482 489 101 74.0 E
Subtotal 767 779 102 61.7 E
Total 2,287 2,207 97 47.3 D
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 32 30 94 13.5 B
T 682 678 99 5.5 A
Subtotal 714 708 99 5.8 A
T 923 926 100 1.7 A
R 40 39 98 0.8 A
Subtotal 963 965 100 1.7 A
L 20 20 99 61.6 F
R 34 35 103 30.3 D
Subtotal 54 55 102 41.7 E
Total 1,730 1,728 100 4.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
281502
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 523 516 99 1.4 A
R 50 49 98 1.0 A
Subtotal 573 565 99 1.4 A
L 27 28 104 10.5 B
T 866 860 99 5.3 A
Subtotal 893 888 99 5.5 A
L 17 16 94 26.4 D
R 41 40 98 9.5 A
Subtotal 58 56 97 14.3 B
Total 1,524 1,509 99 4.3 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 40 37 92 4.5 A
T 462 454 98 1.3 A
Subtotal 502 491 98 1.5 A
T 428 425 99 1.0 A
R 70 72 103 0.7 A
Subtotal 498 497 100 1.0 A
L 50 49 98 14.0 B
T 2 2 133 0.5 A
R 39 41 105 6.2 A
Subtotal 91 92 101 10.2 B
Total 1,090 1,080 99 2.1 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
282503
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 10 103 2.9 A
T 476 460 97 0.9 A
Subtotal 486 470 97 0.9 A
T 374 372 99 1.0 A
R 20 21 106 0.3 A
Subtotal 394 393 100 1.0 A
L 10 8 82 8.2 A
R 5 5 95 4.3 A
Subtotal 15 13 87 6.7 A
Total 895 876 98 1.0 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 3 60 5.1 A
R 5 6 120 2.3 A
Subtotal 10 9 90 3.2 A
T 65 64 99 0.6 A
R 10 10 98 0.5 A
Subtotal 75 74 99 0.6 A
L 5 4 80 1.9 A
T 54 55 101 0.1 A
Subtotal 59 59 100 0.2 A
Total 144 142 98 0.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
NE
SW
283504
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 66 66 100 0.6 A
Subtotal 66 66 100 0.6 A
T 60 59 99 0.6 A
Subtotal 60 59 98 0.6 A
L 10 10 98 4.7 A
R 95 91 96 3.0 A
Subtotal 105 101 96 3.2 A
Total 231 226 98 1.8 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 45 42 93 4.3 A
T 421 415 99 2.5 A
R 55 56 101 1.8 A
Subtotal 521 513 98 2.6 A
L 5 4 80 4.0 A
T 300 294 98 0.7 A
R 5 6 120 0.3 A
Subtotal 310 304 98 0.7 A
L 5 5 100 10.0 A
T 5 6 120 17.0 C
R 40 41 102 1.4 A
Subtotal 50 52 104 4.0 A
L 129 126 97 19.3 C
T 6 7 108 15.8 C
R 20 19 96 10.8 B
Subtotal 155 152 98 18.1 C
Total 1,036 1,021 99 4.4 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
EB
WB
SW
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
284505
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 20 17 86 7.5 A
T 25 26 103 0.5 A
R 477 470 99 1.7 A
Subtotal 522 513 98 1.8 A
T 34 33 97 47.6 E
R 45 45 100 28.1 D
Subtotal 79 78 99 36.4 E
L 457 448 98 2.1 A
T 27 26 97 2.0 A
Subtotal 484 474 98 2.1 A
Total 1,085 1,065 98 4.6 A
Intersection: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 75 73 97 7.2 A
T 523 515 98 2.5 A
Subtotal 598 588 98 3.1 A
T 182 182 100 3.5 A
R 320 311 97 2.4 A
Subtotal 502 493 98 2.8 A
Total 1,100 1,081 98 2.9 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
285506
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 182 174 96 1.2 A
R 60 63 105 0.6 A
Subtotal 242 237 98 1.0 A
L 25 22 89 3.5 A
T 142 147 103 1.3 A
Subtotal 167 169 101 1.6 A
L 415 413 99 24.6 C
T 5 5 100 21.7 C
R 125 126 101 21.7 C
Subtotal 545 544 100 23.9 C
Total 954 950 100 14.3 B
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 1
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 45 45 100 6.1 A
T 478 467 98 1.0 A
Subtotal 523 512 98 1.4 A
T 540 535 99 1.6 A
R 65 66 102 1.4 A
Subtotal 605 601 99 1.6 A
L 45 44 98 20.5 C
R 30 32 106 9.8 A
Subtotal 75 76 101 16.0 C
Total 1,203 1,189 99 2.4 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
286507
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 2
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 50 48 96 4.7 A
T 436 427 98 2.0 A
R 26 28 107 0.5 A
Subtotal 512 503 98 2.2 A
L 45 42 93 5.1 A
T 450 448 100 1.5 A
R 75 75 100 1.3 A
Subtotal 570 565 99 1.7 A
L 55 52 95 34.2 D
T 15 14 95 24.0 C
R 35 35 101 20.2 C
Subtotal 105 101 96 27.9 D
L 11 9 84 27.9 D
T 15 15 102 26.1 D
R 35 37 106 13.5 B
Subtotal 61 61 100 18.7 C
Total 1,247 1,230 99 5.0 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 3
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 30 25 83 6.2 A
T 472 456 97 3.2 A
Subtotal 502 481 96 3.4 A
T 369 370 100 1.2 A
R 48 49 102 0.5 A
Subtotal 417 419 100 1.1 A
L 35 34 98 9.8 A
R 25 25 100 5.1 A
Subtotal 60 59 98 7.8 A
Total 979 959 98 2.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
287508
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Access 4 & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 4 76 4.3 A
R 12 12 102 3.2 A
Subtotal 17 16 94 3.5 A
L 23 25 109 4.8 A
R 10 13 127 3.4 A
Subtotal 33 38 115 4.3 A
L 9 8 86 1.9 A
T 55 54 99 0.6 A
R 4 4 94 0.4 A
Subtotal 68 66 97 0.7 A
L 10 9 88 2.1 A
T 71 70 99 0.7 A
R 30 30 99 0.4 A
Subtotal 111 109 98 0.7 A
Total 230 229 100 1.5 A
Intersection: Access 5 & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 4 76 4.9 A
R 12 14 119 3.1 A
Subtotal 17 18 106 3.5 A
L 20 18 90 4.5 A
R 10 13 127 3.0 A
Subtotal 30 31 103 3.9 A
L 16 13 83 1.7 A
T 35 33 95 0.1 A
R 5 6 114 0.1 A
Subtotal 56 52 93 0.5 A
L 18 17 96 1.8 A
T 34 35 101 0.9 A
R 34 34 101 0.4 A
Subtotal 86 86 100 0.9 A
Total 189 187 99 1.5 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
288509
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 6
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 45 42 93 6.5 A
T 414 407 98 1.5 A
R 65 61 94 1.2 A
Subtotal 524 510 97 1.9 A
L 100 93 93 5.2 A
T 510 509 100 1.4 A
R 105 107 102 1.3 A
Subtotal 715 709 99 1.9 A
L 60 59 99 27.7 D
T 10 9 88 29.8 D
R 43 41 95 17.6 C
Subtotal 113 109 96 24.1 C
L 75 74 98 37.4 E
T 10 10 98 39.9 E
R 65 67 103 24.3 C
Subtotal 150 151 101 31.8 D
Total 1,502 1,479 98 6.6 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 7
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 461 445 97 1.5 A
R 35 35 101 0.5 A
Subtotal 496 480 97 1.4 A
L 75 72 96 4.0 A
T 392 395 101 0.9 A
Subtotal 467 467 100 1.4 A
L 28 28 99 13.2 B
R 38 42 111 7.3 A
Subtotal 66 70 106 9.7 A
Total 1,029 1,017 99 2.0 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
WB
289510
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Spring Canyon Road & Access 8
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
R 15 16 108 1.9 A
Subtotal 15 16 107 1.9 A
L 28 27 96 1.9 A
T 48 49 101 0.4 A
Subtotal 76 76 100 0.9 A
T 29 28 96 0.1 A
Subtotal 29 28 97 0.1 A
Total 121 120 99 0.9 A
Intersection: Spring Canyon Road & Access 9
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
R 6 6 96 2.8 A
Subtotal 6 6 100 2.8 A
L 19 18 95 1.5 A
T 15 15 102 0.1 A
Subtotal 34 33 97 0.9 A
T 2 2 100 0.0 A
Subtotal 2 2 100 0.0 A
Total 42 41 98 1.1 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
EB
WB
290511
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 10
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 646 640 99 6.1 A
R 20 22 110 5.3 A
Subtotal 666 662 99 6.1 A
L 91 93 102 7.4 A
T 879 876 100 2.1 A
Subtotal 970 969 100 2.6 A
L 27 25 92 36.7 E
R 58 58 100 18.2 C
Subtotal 85 83 98 23.8 C
Total 1,722 1,714 100 5.0 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
291512
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South
Type: Signalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 262 252 96 9.6 A
T 5 5 100 11.2 B
R 25 27 107 3.3 A
Subtotal 292 284 97 9.0 A
T 55 56 102 4.8 A
R 30 31 102 1.7 A
Subtotal 85 87 102 3.7 A
L 264 267 101 11.3 B
T 41 40 97 7.5 A
Subtotal 305 307 101 10.8 B
Total 682 678 99 9.2 A
Intersection: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 15 13 87 9.7 A
T 5 3 60 14.1 B
R 470 481 102 1.7 A
Subtotal 490 497 101 2.0 A
L 20 18 89 6.3 A
T 297 292 98 2.0 A
Subtotal 317 310 98 2.2 A
T 290 294 101 11.3 B
R 248 252 102 5.0 A
Subtotal 538 546 101 8.4 A
Total 1,346 1,353 101 4.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
EB
WB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
292513
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Main Street & 100 South
Type: Signalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 337 346 103 31.6 C
T 437 435 100 8.8 A
Subtotal 774 781 101 18.9 B
T 546 547 100 27.1 C
R 200 201 100 11.0 B
Subtotal 746 748 100 22.8 C
L 285 285 100 37.0 D
T 0 1 400 0.5 A
R 482 486 101 18.2 B
Subtotal 767 772 101 25.1 C
Total 2,287 2,301 101 22.3 C
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 32 29 91 12.2 B
T 682 691 101 1.7 A
Subtotal 714 720 101 2.1 A
T 923 918 99 1.1 A
R 40 41 103 0.5 A
Subtotal 963 959 100 1.1 A
L 20 18 89 40.3 E
R 34 34 100 11.6 B
Subtotal 54 52 96 21.5 C
Total 1,730 1,731 100 2.1 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
293514
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 523 528 101 1.6 A
R 50 47 94 1.4 A
Subtotal 573 575 100 1.6 A
L 27 26 96 10.6 B
T 866 861 99 5.3 A
Subtotal 893 887 99 5.5 A
L 17 14 82 22.4 C
R 41 44 108 6.8 A
Subtotal 58 58 100 10.6 B
Total 1,524 1,520 100 4.2 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 40 38 94 5.1 A
T 462 466 101 1.4 A
Subtotal 502 504 100 1.7 A
T 428 432 101 1.1 A
R 70 76 109 0.7 A
Subtotal 498 508 102 1.0 A
L 50 50 101 14.0 B
T 2 2 133 0.1 A
R 39 40 103 6.2 A
Subtotal 91 92 101 10.3 B
Total 1,090 1,104 101 2.1 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
294515
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 10 8 82 3.1 A
T 476 476 100 0.9 A
Subtotal 486 484 100 0.9 A
T 374 374 100 0.9 A
R 20 17 86 0.4 A
Subtotal 394 391 99 0.9 A
L 10 10 103 9.3 A
R 5 8 152 4.0 A
Subtotal 15 18 120 6.9 A
Total 895 893 100 1.1 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 4 80 4.1 A
R 5 6 120 2.7 A
Subtotal 10 10 100 3.3 A
T 65 65 100 0.5 A
R 10 9 88 0.6 A
Subtotal 75 74 99 0.5 A
L 5 4 80 1.8 A
T 54 54 100 0.1 A
Subtotal 59 58 98 0.2 A
Total 144 142 98 0.6 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
NE
SW
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
295516
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 66 65 99 0.6 A
Subtotal 66 65 98 0.6 A
T 60 59 99 0.6 A
Subtotal 60 59 98 0.6 A
L 10 11 107 4.9 A
R 95 99 104 3.1 A
Subtotal 105 110 105 3.3 A
Total 231 234 101 1.8 A
Intersection: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 45 43 96 4.2 A
T 421 416 99 2.0 A
R 55 55 100 1.4 A
Subtotal 521 514 99 2.1 A
L 5 4 80 3.9 A
T 300 304 101 0.7 A
R 5 8 160 0.4 A
Subtotal 310 316 102 0.7 A
L 5 4 80 12.2 B
T 5 4 80 19.4 C
R 40 42 105 1.6 A
Subtotal 50 50 100 3.9 A
L 129 126 97 22.6 C
T 6 8 123 19.1 C
R 20 23 116 13.4 B
Subtotal 155 157 101 21.1 C
Total 1,036 1,037 100 4.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
WB
SW
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
EB
296517
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway
Type: All-way Stop Controlled
Avg % Avg LOS
L 20 20 101 9.5 A
T 25 27 107 0.6 A
R 477 472 99 7.0 A
Subtotal 522 519 99 6.8 A
T 34 33 97 6.2 A
R 45 43 96 4.2 A
Subtotal 79 76 96 5.1 A
L 457 459 100 9.0 A
T 27 28 105 9.6 A
Subtotal 484 487 101 9.0 A
Total 1,085 1,082 100 7.7 A
Intersection: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 75 74 99 6.9 A
T 523 520 99 2.2 A
Subtotal 598 594 99 2.8 A
T 182 181 99 3.2 A
R 320 320 100 2.1 A
Subtotal 502 501 100 2.5 A
Total 1,100 1,095 100 2.7 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
297518
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 182 180 99 1.3 A
R 60 65 109 0.5 A
Subtotal 242 245 101 1.1 A
L 25 26 105 3.5 A
T 142 142 100 1.1 A
Subtotal 167 168 101 1.5 A
L 415 414 100 15.4 C
T 5 5 100 16.1 C
R 125 124 99 4.2 A
Subtotal 545 543 100 12.8 B
Total 954 956 100 7.8 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 1
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 45 44 98 6.1 A
T 478 481 101 1.0 A
Subtotal 523 525 100 1.4 A
T 540 546 101 2.1 A
R 65 62 95 1.9 A
Subtotal 605 608 100 2.1 A
L 45 43 96 23.2 C
R 30 33 109 10.1 B
Subtotal 75 76 101 17.5 C
Total 1,203 1,209 100 2.8 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
298519
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 2
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 50 50 100 5.7 A
T 436 439 101 2.0 A
R 26 28 107 0.5 A
Subtotal 512 517 101 2.3 A
L 45 46 102 6.6 A
T 450 458 102 1.5 A
R 75 75 100 1.5 A
Subtotal 570 579 102 1.9 A
L 55 52 95 28.1 D
T 15 15 102 27.8 D
R 35 37 106 6.0 A
Subtotal 105 104 99 20.2 C
L 11 9 84 21.9 C
T 15 14 95 27.4 D
R 35 38 109 8.3 A
Subtotal 61 61 100 14.7 B
Total 1,247 1,261 101 4.2 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 3
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 30 31 102 6.0 A
T 472 471 100 3.4 A
Subtotal 502 502 100 3.6 A
T 369 365 99 1.3 A
R 48 55 114 0.4 A
Subtotal 417 420 101 1.2 A
L 35 34 98 10.4 B
R 25 26 104 5.0 A
Subtotal 60 60 100 8.1 A
Total 979 982 100 2.8 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
299520
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Access 4 & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 4 76 4.3 A
R 12 13 111 3.1 A
Subtotal 17 17 100 3.4 A
L 23 23 100 4.8 A
R 10 11 107 3.0 A
Subtotal 33 34 103 4.2 A
L 9 9 97 2.2 A
T 55 56 102 0.4 A
R 4 4 94 0.3 A
Subtotal 68 69 101 0.6 A
L 10 10 98 2.2 A
T 71 72 101 0.8 A
R 30 33 109 0.5 A
Subtotal 111 115 104 0.8 A
Total 230 235 102 1.4 A
Intersection: Access 5 & Creamery Lane
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 5 5 95 3.9 A
R 12 14 119 2.8 A
Subtotal 17 19 112 3.1 A
L 20 17 85 4.5 A
R 10 12 117 3.1 A
Subtotal 30 29 97 3.9 A
L 16 15 95 1.8 A
T 35 36 104 0.2 A
R 5 6 114 0.1 A
Subtotal 56 57 102 0.6 A
L 18 16 90 2.0 A
T 34 35 101 0.9 A
R 34 34 101 0.4 A
Subtotal 86 85 99 0.9 A
Total 189 190 101 1.5 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
EB
WB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
300521
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 6
Type: Signalized
Avg % Avg LOS
L 45 46 102 15.0 B
T 414 416 101 5.8 A
R 65 60 92 2.7 A
Subtotal 524 522 100 6.3 A
L 100 96 96 13.7 B
T 510 521 102 5.6 A
R 105 104 99 2.9 A
Subtotal 715 721 101 6.3 A
L 60 60 100 14.8 B
T 10 10 98 13.5 B
R 43 42 98 6.1 A
Subtotal 113 112 99 11.4 B
L 75 71 94 14.7 B
T 10 10 98 11.2 B
R 65 67 103 5.9 A
Subtotal 150 148 99 10.5 B
Total 1,502 1,503 100 7.1 A
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 7
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 461 461 100 1.5 A
R 35 34 98 0.5 A
Subtotal 496 495 100 1.4 A
L 75 74 98 4.4 A
T 392 398 102 0.9 A
Subtotal 467 472 101 1.4 A
L 28 26 92 14.1 B
R 38 40 106 6.4 A
Subtotal 66 66 100 9.4 A
Total 1,029 1,033 100 1.9 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
SB
WB
SB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
301522
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Spring Canyon Road & Access 8
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
R 15 14 95 2.2 A
Subtotal 15 14 93 2.2 A
L 28 26 92 1.8 A
T 48 47 97 0.4 A
Subtotal 76 73 96 0.9 A
T 29 30 103 0.1 A
Subtotal 29 30 103 0.1 A
Total 121 117 97 0.8 A
Intersection: Spring Canyon Road & Access 9
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
R 6 6 96 2.7 A
Subtotal 6 6 100 2.7 A
L 19 17 89 1.4 A
T 15 14 95 0.0 A
Subtotal 34 31 91 0.8 A
T 2 2 100 0.0 A
Subtotal 2 2 100 0.0 A
Total 42 39 93 1.1 A
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
EB
WB
EB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
SB
302523
SimTraffic LOS Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis Period: Mitigated Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection: Hoytsville Road & Access 10
Type: Unsignalized
Avg % Avg LOS
T 646 650 101 6.3 A
R 20 20 100 5.9 A
Subtotal 666 670 101 6.3 A
L 91 90 99 8.4 A
T 879 875 100 2.1 A
Subtotal 970 965 99 2.7 A
L 27 28 103 42.8 E
R 58 60 104 8.6 A
Subtotal 85 88 104 19.5 C
Total 1,722 1,723 100 5.0 A
SB
WB
Approach Movement Demand 
Volume
Volume Served Delay/Veh (sec)
NB
303524
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
APPENDIX C 
95 
th  Percentile Queue Length Reports 
  
304525
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis: Existing (2023) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet) - Rounded Up to Nearest Multiple of 25 ft Project #: UT23-2414
S
W
Intersection LR LT LTR LT LTR TR LR L LR LT LTR R TR LR LT LTR
01: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 --
02: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- --
03: Main Street & 100 South -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- 125 -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- --
04: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
05: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- --
06: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
07: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
08: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
09: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
10: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75
11: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- --
12: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
13: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp -- -- -- 25 -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- --
SB EB WBNB
305526
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis: Existing (2023) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet) - Rounded Up to Nearest Multiple of 25 ft Project #: UT23-2414
S
W
Intersection LR LT LTR LT LTR TR LR L LR LT LTR R TR LR LT LTR
01: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
02: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
03: Main Street & 100 South -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- 125 -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- --
04: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
05: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- --
06: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
07: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
08: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
09: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
10: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75
11: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- --
12: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
13: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- --
NB SB EB WB
306527
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet) - Rounded Up to Nearest Multiple of 25 ft Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection LR LT LTR TR LT LTR TR LR LT L LR LT LTR R TR LR LT LTR
01: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 --
02: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 25 -- -- -- -- -- --
03: Main Street & 100 South -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 125 -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- --
04: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
05: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- --
06: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
07: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
08: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
09: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
10: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 75
11: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- --
12: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
13: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- --
NB SB SW EB WB
307528
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet) - Rounded Up to Nearest Multiple of 25 ft Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection LR LT LTR LT LTR TR LR LT L LR LT LTR R TR LR LT LTR
01: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 --
02: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
03: Main Street & 100 South -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- 125 -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- --
04: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
05: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- --
06: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
07: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
08: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
09: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
10: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 75
11: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- --
12: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
13: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- --
NB SB SW EB WB
308529
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet) - Rounded Up to Nearest Multiple of 25 ft Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection LR LT LTR LT LTR TR LR LT L LR LT LTR R TR LR LT LTR TR
01: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South -- -- -- -- 125 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- --
02: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
03: Main Street & 100 South -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- -- 175 -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- --
04: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
05: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- --
06: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
07: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
08: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
09: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
10: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 75 --
11: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- --
12: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
13: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp -- -- -- 25 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- --
14: Hoytsville Road & Access 1 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
15: Hoytsville Road & Access 2 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
NB SB SW EB WB
309530
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis: Future (2025) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet) - Rounded Up to Nearest Multiple of 25 ft Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection LR LT LTR LT LTR TR LR LT L LR LT LTR R TR LR LT LTR
01: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 --
02: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
03: Main Street & 100 South -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- 125 -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- --
04: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
05: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- --
06: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
07: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
08: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
09: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
10: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 75
11: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- --
12: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
13: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- --
14: Hoytsville Road & Access 1 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
15: Hoytsville Road & Access 2 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
NB SB SW EB WB
310531
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet) - Rounded Up to Nearest Multiple of 25 ft Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection LR LT LTR R LT LTR TR LR LT L LR LT LTR R TR LR LT LTR TR
01: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South -- -- -- -- -- 150 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- --
02: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South -- 75 -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 200 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
03: Main Street & 100 South -- 250 -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- 925 -- -- -- 725 -- -- -- -- --
04: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
05: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- --
06: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
07: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
08: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
09: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
10: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 100 --
11: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- --
12: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
13: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- --
14: Hoytsville Road & Access 1 -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
15: Hoytsville Road & Access 2 -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
16: Hoytsville Road & Access 3 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
17: Access 4 & Creamery Lane -- -- 50 -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
18: Access 5 & Creamery Lane -- -- 50 -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
19: Hoytsville Road & Access 6 -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 75 --
NB SB SW EB WB
311532
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet) - Rounded Up to Nearest Multiple of 25 ft Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection L LR LT LTR T TR LT LTR R T TR LR LT L LR LT LTR R TR LR LT LTR TR
01: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 150 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- --
02: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
03: Main Street & 100 South 200 -- -- -- 225 -- -- -- 100 100 -- -- -- 150 -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- --
04: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
05: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- --
06: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
07: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
08: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
09: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
10: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road -- -- -- 25 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 100 --
11: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- --
12: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
13: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- --
14: Hoytsville Road & Access 1 -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
15: Hoytsville Road & Access 2 -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
16: Hoytsville Road & Access 3 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
17: Access 4 & Creamery Lane -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
18: Access 5 & Creamery Lane -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
19: Hoytsville Road & Access 6 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 75 --
NB SB SW EB WB
312533
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis: Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet) - Rounded Up to Nearest Multiple of 25 ft Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection LR LT LTR R LT LTR TR LR LT L LR LT LTR R TR LR LT LTR TR
01: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South -- -- -- -- -- 125 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- --
02: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South -- 675 -- 250 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 150 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
03: Main Street & 100 South -- 225 -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- 1,025 -- -- -- 1,125 -- -- -- -- --
04: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
05: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- --
06: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
07: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
08: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
09: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
10: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 100 --
11: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- --
12: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
13: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 150 -- -- -- -- -- --
14: Hoytsville Road & Access 1 -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
15: Hoytsville Road & Access 2 -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
16: Hoytsville Road & Access 3 -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
17: Access 4 & Creamery Lane -- -- 50 -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
18: Access 5 & Creamery Lane -- -- 50 -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
19: Hoytsville Road & Access 6 -- -- 50 -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 100 --
NB SB SW EB WB
313534
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis: Mitigated Future (2030) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet) - Rounded Up to Nearest Multiple of 25 ft Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection L LR LT LTR T TR LR LT LTR R T TR LR LT L LR LT LTR R TR LR LT LTR TR
01: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 125 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- --
02: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
03: Main Street & 100 South 175 -- -- -- 125 -- -- -- -- 75 150 -- -- -- 200 -- -- -- 150 -- -- -- -- --
04: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
05: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- --
06: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
07: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
08: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
09: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
10: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 100 --
11: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- --
12: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
13: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 175 -- -- -- -- -- --
14: Hoytsville Road & Access 1 -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
15: Hoytsville Road & Access 2 -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
16: Hoytsville Road & Access 3 -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
17: Access 4 & Creamery Lane -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
18: Access 5 & Creamery Lane -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
19: Hoytsville Road & Access 6 -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 100 --
20: Access 6 & Access 7 -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
NB SB SW EB WB
314535
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet) - Rounded Up to Nearest Multiple of 25 ft Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection L LR LT LTR R T TR L LR LT LTR R T TR LR LT L LR LT LTR R TR LR LT LTR TR
01: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 250 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- --
02: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
03: Main Street & 100 South 325 -- -- -- -- 600 -- -- -- -- -- 100 150 -- -- -- 225 -- -- -- 125 -- -- -- -- --
04: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
05: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- --
06: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane 25 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
07: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
08: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
09: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
10: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 125 --
11: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway -- 125 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- 50 -- --
12: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp -- -- 150 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
13: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 125 -- -- -- -- -- --
14: Hoytsville Road & Access 1 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
15: Hoytsville Road & Access 2 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- 50 --
16: Hoytsville Road & Access 3 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
17: Access 4 & Creamery Lane -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
18: Access 5 & Creamery Lane -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
19: Hoytsville Road & Access 6 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 125 -- -- -- -- 175 --
20: Hoytsville Road & Access 7 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- --
21: Spring Canyon Road & Access 8 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
22: Spring Canyon Road & Access 9 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
23: Hoytsville Road & Access 10 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- --
NB SB SW EB WB
315536
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis: Mitigated Future (2040) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet) - Rounded Up to Nearest Multiple of 25 ft Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection L LR LT LTR R T TR L LR LT LTR R T TR LR LT L LR LT LTR R T TR L LR LT LTR R T TR
01: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 175 -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 50 -- 225 -- -- -- -- 75 --
02: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50
03: Main Street & 100 South 275 -- -- -- -- 450 -- -- -- -- -- 200 250 -- -- -- 275 -- -- -- 125 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
04: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
05: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- 50 -- --
06: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
07: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane -- -- 25 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
08: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
09: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
10: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- 125 -- -- --
11: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway -- 125 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- 225 -- -- -- --
12: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp -- -- 150 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
13: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 125 -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
14: Hoytsville Road & Access 1 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
15: Hoytsville Road & Access 2 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- 50 -- -- -- -- 50 -- 50 -- --
16: Hoytsville Road & Access 3 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
17: Access 4 & Creamery Lane -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
18: Access 5 & Creamery Lane -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
19: Hoytsville Road & Access 6 50 -- -- -- 50 150 -- 75 -- -- -- 75 125 -- -- -- 100 -- -- -- 50 -- -- 100 -- -- -- 75 -- --
20: Hoytsville Road & Access 7 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- --
21: Spring Canyon Road & Access 8 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
22: Spring Canyon Road & Access 9 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
23: Hoytsville Road & Access 10 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- 100 -- --
NB SB SW EB WB
316537
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis: Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet) - Rounded Up to Nearest Multiple of 25 ft Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection L LR LT LTR R T TR L LR LT LTR R T TR LR LT L LR LT LTR R TR LR LT LTR TR
01: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 200 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- --
02: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South -- -- 100 -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- --
03: Main Street & 100 South 300 -- -- -- -- 625 -- -- -- -- -- 125 250 -- -- -- 700 -- -- -- 900 -- -- -- -- --
04: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane -- -- 275 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 125 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
05: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- --
06: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
07: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
08: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
09: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
10: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- 125 --
11: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 150 -- -- -- --
12: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp -- -- 150 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
13: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 375 -- -- -- -- -- --
14: Hoytsville Road & Access 1 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
15: Hoytsville Road & Access 2 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 150 -- -- -- -- 100 --
16: Hoytsville Road & Access 3 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
17: Access 4 & Creamery Lane -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
18: Access 5 & Creamery Lane -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
19: Hoytsville Road & Access 6 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 125 -- -- -- -- 175 --
20: Hoytsville Road & Access 7 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- --
21: Spring Canyon Road & Access 8 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
22: Spring Canyon Road & Access 9 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
23: Hoytsville Road & Access 10 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 125 -- -- --
NB SB SW EB WB
317538
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Hoytsville LHM Master Plan TIS
Analysis: Mitigated Future (2040) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet) - Rounded Up to Nearest Multiple of 25 ft Project #: UT23-2414
Intersection L LR LT LTR R T TR L LR LT LTR R T TR LR LT L LR LT LTR R T TR L LR LT LTR R T TR
01: SB I-80 On Ramp/SB I-80 Off Ramp & Icy Spring Road/100 South -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 150 -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 50 -- 150 -- -- -- -- 50 --
02: NB I-80 Off Ramp/NB I-80 On Ramp & 100 South -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
03: Main Street & 100 South 275 -- -- -- -- 350 -- -- -- -- -- 275 450 -- -- -- 275 -- -- -- 300 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
04: Hoytsville Road & Hobson Lane 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
05: Hoytsville Road & Spring Canyon Road -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- 75 -- --
06: Hoytsville Road & Creamery Lane 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
07: Hoytsville Road & Judd Lane -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
08: Old Lincoln Highway & SE Wanship Road -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
09: Old Lincoln Highway & SB I-80 Off Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
10: Old Lincoln Highway & West Hoytsville Road & Hoytsville Road -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- 150 -- -- --
11: S.R. 32 & Old Lincoln Highway -- 125 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- 150 -- -- -- --
12: S.R. 32 & WB I-80 On Ramp -- -- 125 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
13: S.R. 32 & EB I-80 Off Ramp/EB I-80 On Ramp -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 225 -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
14: Hoytsville Road & Access 1 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
15: Hoytsville Road & Access 2 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- 50 -- -- -- -- 50 -- 50 -- --
16: Hoytsville Road & Access 3 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
17: Access 4 & Creamery Lane -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
18: Access 5 & Creamery Lane -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
19: Hoytsville Road & Access 6 75 -- -- -- 75 175 -- 100 -- -- -- 100 175 -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- 50 -- -- 100 -- -- -- 75 -- --
20: Hoytsville Road & Access 7 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 100 -- -- -- -- --
21: Spring Canyon Road & Access 8 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
22: Spring Canyon Road & Access 9 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 50 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
23: Hoytsville Road & Access 10 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 75 -- -- -- 75 -- --
NB SB SW EB WB
318539
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
APPENDIX D 
Project Trip Generation Tables 
 
  
319540
Total % In % Out In Out Internal 
Capture In Out Total 
West Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 90 DU 636 50% 5 0% 318 318 6% 299 299 598 
West Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 60 DU 632 50% 5 0% 316 316 6% 297 297 594 
West Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 13.4 KSF 732 50% 50% 3 66 366 6% 344 344 688 
2,000 1,000 1,000 940 940 1,880 
West Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 90 DU 42 31% 69 % 13 29 3% 13 28 41 
West Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 60 DU 42 26% 74 % 11 31 3% 11 30 41 
West Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 13.4 KSF 32 60% 40% 19 13 3% 18 13 31 
116 43 73 42 71 113 
West Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 90 DU 52 57% 43 % 30 22 10% 27 20 47 
West Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 60 DU 58 63% 37 % 37 21 10% 33 19 52 
West Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 13.4 KSF 98 50% 50% 49 49 10% 44 44 88 
208 116 92 104 83 187 
Trip Generation 
2025 Trip Generation 
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan 
# of 
Units Unit Type 
SOURCE:  Hales Engineering, September 2023 
1.  Land Use Code from the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation ,11th Edition,2021. 
Land Use 1Area 
Reductions New Trips 
TOTAL 
TOTAL 
TOTAL 
Weekday Daily 
AM Peak Hour 
PM Peak Hour 
Total % In % Out In Out Internal 
Capture In Out Total 
West Multifamily Housing (Low-Rise) (220) 135 DU 942 50% 50% 471 471 6% 442 443 885 
West Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 188 DU 1,384 5 0% 50% 692 692 6% 651 650 1,301 
West Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 327 DU 3,002 5 0% 50% 1,501 1,501 6% 1,411 1,411 2,822 
West Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 51 KSF 2,778 50% 50% 1 ,389 1,389 6% 1,305 1,306 2,611 
East Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 153 DU 1,116 5 0% 50% 558 558 6% 524 525 1,049 
East Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 97 DU 982 50% 5 0% 491 491 6% 461 462 923 
East Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 18 KSF 954 50% 50% 477 477 6% 449 448 897 
11,158 5,579 5,579 5,243 5,245 10,488 
West Multifamily Housing (Low-Rise) (220) 135 DU 66 24% 7 6% 16 50 2% 16 49 65 
West Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 188 DU 92 31% 6 9% 29 63 2% 28 62 90 
West Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 327 DU 220 26% 74% 57 163 2% 56 160 216 
West Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 51 KSF 122 60% 40% 73 4 9 2% 72 48 120 
East Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 153 DU 74 31% 6 9% 23 51 2% 23 50 73 
East Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 97 DU 74 26% 74 % 19 55 2% 19 54 73 
East Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 18 KSF 42 60% 40% 25 17 2% 24 17 41 
690 242 448 238 440 678 
West Multifamily Housing (Low-Rise) (220) 135 DU 80 63% 3 7% 50 30 10% 45 27 72 
West Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 188 DU 108 57% 43% 62 46 10% 56 41 97 
West Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 327 DU 304 63% 37% 192 112 10% 173 101 274 
West Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 51 KSF 248 50% 50% 124 124 10% 111 112 223 
East Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 153 DU 88 57% 4 3% 50 38 10% 45 34 79 
East Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 97 DU 98 63% 37 % 62 36 10% 56 32 88 
East Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 18 KSF 116 50% 50% 58 5 8 10% 52 52 104 
1,042 598 444 538 399 937 
Trip Generation 
2030 Trip Generation 
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan 
# of 
Units Unit Type 
SOURCE:  Hales Engineering, September 2023 
1.  Land Use Code from the Institute of Transportat ion Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation ,11th Edition,2021. 
Land Use 1
Area 
Reductions New Trips 
TOTAL 
TOTAL 
TOTAL 
Weekday Daily 
AM Peak Hour 
PM Peak Hour 
320541
Total % In % Out In Out Internal 
Capture In Out Total 
West Multifamily Housing (Low-Rise) (220) 462 DU 3,038 5 0% 50% 1,519 1,519 4% 1,458 1,458 2,916 
West Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 188 DU 1,384 5 0% 50% 692 692 4% 665 664 1,329 
West Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 364 DU 3,314 5 0% 50% 1,657 1,657 4% 1,590 1,591 3,181 
West Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 108 KSF 5,882 50% 50% 2,941 2,941 4% 2,824 2,823 5,647 
East Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 289 DU 2,152 5 0% 50% 1,076 1,076 5% 1,022 1,022 2,044 
East Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 352 DU 3,212 5 0% 50% 1,606 1,606 5% 1,525 1,526 3,051 
East Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 34 KSF 1,852 50% 50% 9 26 926 5% 879 880 1,759 
North Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 178 DU 1,306 50% 50% 653 653 5% 621 620 1,241 
North Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 167 DU 1,618 50% 50% 809 809 5% 768 769 1,537 
North Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 14 KSF 764 50% 50% 38 2 382 5% 363 363 726 
24,522 12,261 12,261 11,715 11,716 23,431 
West Multifamily Housing (Low-Rise) (220) 462 DU 168 24% 76% 40 128 2% 40 125 165 
West Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 188 DU 92 31% 6 9% 29 63 2% 28 62 90 
West Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 364 DU 242 26% 74% 63 179 2% 62 175 237 
West Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 108 KSF 256 60% 40% 15 4 102 2% 151 100 251 
East Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 289 DU 146 31% 69% 45 101 2% 44 99 143 
East Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 352 DU 236 26% 74% 61 175 2% 59 172 231 
East Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 34 KSF 82 60% 40% 49 33 2% 48 32 80 
North Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 178 DU 88 31% 69% 27 61 2% 26 60 86 
North Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 167 DU 120 26 % 74% 31 89 2% 31 87 118 
North Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 14 KSF 34 60% 40% 20 1 4 2% 19 14 33 
1,464 519 945 508 926 1,434 
West Multifamily Housing (Low-Rise) (220) 462 DU 220 63% 37% 139 81 7% 130 75 205 
West Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 188 DU 108 57% 43% 62 46 7% 57 43 100 
West Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 364 DU 336 63% 37% 212 124 7% 197 115 312 
West Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 108 KSF 422 50% 50% 21 1 211 7% 196 196 392 
East Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 289 DU 170 57% 43% 97 73 9% 89 66 155 
East Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 352 DU 326 63% 37% 205 121 9% 187 110 297 
East Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 34 KSF 186 50% 50% 93 9 3 9% 84 85 169 
North Single-Family Attached Housing (215) 178 DU 104 57 % 43% 59 45 9% 54 41 95 
North Single-Family Detached Housing (210) 167 DU 162 63 % 37% 102 60 9% 92 55 147 
North Strip Retail Plaza, <40k (822) 14 KSF 100 50% 50% 50 50 9% 45 46 91 
2,134 1,230 904 1,131 832 1,963 
Trip Generation 
Full Build Trip Generation 
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan 
# of 
Units Unit Type 
SOURCE:  Hales Engineering, September 2023 
1.  Land Use Code from the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation ,11th Edition,2021. 
Land Use 1Area 
Reductions New Trips 
TOTAL 
TOTAL 
TOTAL 
Weekday Daily 
AM Peak Hour 
PM Peak Hour 
321542
Hoytsville - LHM Master Plan  
Traffic Impact Study 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
APPENDIX E 
Functional Classification Map 
 
322543
HOYTSVILLE ROAD
E BROWNS LANE
CREAMERY LANE
E 1100 S
MEADOW HAVEN LANE
HOYT LANE
E BOX ELDER LANE
TRAILS END ROAD
E EDGELL LANE
E KRUG LANE
JUDD LANE
E JUNIPER HILLS DR ROAD
E BROWNS LANE
S CEDAR HOLLER
SPRING CANYON ROAD
HOBBS LANE
Hoytsville
Cemetery
Church
POTENTIAL FUTURE   CONNECTION
SPRING CANYON ROAD
NEW SPRING CANYON ROAD
DESIRED
CONNECTION
4d
4d
5a
5a
5a
5a
5a
5a
5b
5b
5b
4a
4a
4a
3b
4c
4c
4c
4a
4a
5b
4c
4c
OFFSITE
IMPROVE
2,876'
OFFSITE
IMPROVE
2,575'
OFFSITE
IMPROVE
2,555'
OFFSITE
IMPROVE
159'
OFFSITE
IMPROVE
170'
OFFSITE
IMPROVE
1,305'
OFFSITE
IMPROVE
1,007'
OFFSITE
IMPROVE
509'
OFFSITE
IMPROVE
221'
OFFSITE
IMPROVE
1,650'
OFFSITE
IMPROVE
340'
OFFSITE
IMPROVE
541'
5d
3,131'
5d
1,576'
5d
1,739'
5d
1,671'
4a
3a
3c
4a
4a
4a
4a
4a
4b
5a
5a
5a
5b
5b
5c
5c
5a
5a
 5c
5b
5b
5b
4c
Street Lengths - LHM Controlled Land
3a  Major Connector Street, VC
3b  Major Connector Street, Turn Lane
3c  Major Connector Street, No Parking
4a  Connector Street
4b  Connector Street, Park 1-Side
4c  Connector Street, No Parking
4d  One-Way Connector Street
5a  Local Street
5b  Local Street, Park 1-Side
5c  Local Street, No Parking
Total Length of On-Site Streets
5d  Rural Road
Potential Off-Site Improvements
Street Types
1,045'
380'
650'
17,395'
1,540'
3,865'
1,140'
13,095'
8,350'
1,540'
49,000'
As Noted
As Noted
Hotsville Master Plan Concept Study 1,000'500'0'
HODGES DESIGN
Community Design and Land Planning
21  February  2024
AREA
1
VILLAGE
CENTER
AREA
2
AREA
3
AREA
4
AREA
5
Not in Roads Count
(would be 8,840')
323544