1.
Work Session, one year review and discussion of possible amendment to increase the
number of residents from 16 to 24 of a Conditional Use Permit for a Rehabilitation Facility at
241 South Highland Drive. Jim Huffman, Applicant. Ray Milliner, 
Principal Planner.
 
1.
Public input items not on the agenda or pending applications.
2.
Public Hearing, Possible Action regarding a 
Conditional Use Permit/Master Planned
Development for a 26,431 SF expansion of an existing Public Facility, the Summit County
Justice Center, located at 6300 Justice Center Road. GSBS Architects, Applicants.
Administrative Process. Project #24-028.
Jennifer Strader, 
Senior Planner.
 
3.
Public Hearing, Possible Recommendation for an amendment to chapter 6.1, Moderate
Income Housing, of the Snyderville Basin General Plan. Elyse Kats, Economic Development
and Housing Manager & Jennifer Strader, Senior Planner.
4.
**THIS PUBLIC HEARING HAS BEEN CANCELLED AND WILL BE RE-NOTICED FOR JUNE 25,
2024** Public Hearing and Possible Recommendation to the County Council for
amendments to Chapter 10-3 Development Application and Procedure Process, and Chapter
10-2-18 Master Planned Developments. Legislative Process.
Ray Milliner, 
Principal Planner.
 
**AMENDED** 
AGENDA 
SNYDERVILLE BASIN PLANNING COMMISSION 
Tuesday, June 11, 2024
NOTICE is hereby given that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission will meet
electronically, via Zoom, and at the anchor location of Sheldon Richins Auditorium
1885 W. Ute Blvd., Park City, UT 84098
(All times listed are general in nature, and are subject to change by the Board Chair)
 
You may attend in person or
 
Join Zoom webinar:
https://summitcountyut.zoom.us/j/98189226475  
OR
To listen by phone only: Dial 1-669-900-9128 or 1-253-215-8782,
Webinar ID: 981 8922 6475 
 
4:30 P.M. Work Session
 
June 11, 2024 Report Final.pdf
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
 
 
Staff Report SBPC 6.11.24.pdf
 
 
Staff_Report_June_11__2024 SUBDIVISIONS JS edits.doc
Commission Items
1
Director Items
Adjourn
To view staff reports available at the end of the Friday before the meeting please visit
www.summitcounty.org.
 
Individuals needing special accommodations pursuant to the Americans with Disabilities Act regarding this meeting may
contact Vicki Geary, Summit County Community Development Department at (435)336-3123.
2
AGENDA ITEM NO. 1
Staff Report
 
 
DATE:
June 11, 2024
SUBMITTED BY:
Ray Milliner, Planning
ITEM TYPE:
Discussion
AGENDA SECTION:
4:30 P.M. Work Session
SUBJECT:
Work Session, one year review and discussion of possible
amendment to increase the number of residents from 16 to 24 of a
Conditional Use Permit for a Rehabilitation Facility at 241 South
Highland Drive. Jim Huffman, Applicant. Ray Milliner, 
Principal
Planner.
 
SUGGESTED ACTION:
ESTIMATED TIME:
INTRODUCTION:
BACKGROUND:
CONCLUSION:
 
 
 
SNYDERVILLE BASIN PLANNING COMMISSION AGENDA ITEM REPORT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENTS:
June 11, 2024 Report Final.pdf
3
 Community Development Department 
P.O. Box 128 
60 North Main Street 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
summitcounty.org 
 
  
 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
To:   Snyderville Basin Planning Commission   
From:   Ray Milliner, County Planner  
Date of Meeting: June 11, 2024 
Type of Item: One Year Review, Amendment to a Conditional Use Permit – Work 
Session 
Process:  Administrative Review 
 
RECOMMENDATION:  Staff recommends that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission 
conducts a work session to do the following: 
 
1. Conduct a one-year review of the proposed Residential Treatment Facility.  
2. Review the amended Conditional Use Permit application which proposes to increase the 
maximum number of residents from 16-24 and provide staff with direction.  
 
Project Description 
 
Project Name:   Wasatch Crest Residential Treatment Facility 
Applicant(s):   James Huffman   
Property Owner(s):  Hive Mountain Holdings 
Location:   241 South Highland Drive  
Zone District:   Rural Residential (RR) 
Parcel Number and Size: Parcel # PRE-12, 1.46 Acres  
Type of Process:  Administrative 
Final Land Use Authority: Snyderville Basin Planning Commission  
  
Proposal 
 
On November 8, 2022, the Planning Commission approved a Conditional Use Permit for a 
Residential Treatment Facility at 241 South Highland Drive.  Conditions of approval for the 
facility require that the Commission conduct a 1-year review of the project to ensure that the 
owner has been operating within the parameters of the approval.   
 
On the applicant submitted an application to amend the previously approved CUP, to increase 
the maximum number of residents from 16-24. Section 10-3-5.I.2 of the Snyderville Basin 
Development Code outlines the process for a major amendment to a CUP. It states: 
 
4
2 
 
“A “major amendment” is defined as an amendment that increases square footage, density, 
and/or intensity of a previously approved CUP. A major amendment may be commenced by 
filing a conditional use permit application…”   
 
Vicinity Map 
 
 
 
Background 
 
The applicant, Wasatch Crest, Jim Huffman representative, received approval from the 
Snyderville Basin Planning Commission for a Residential Treatment Facility at 241 South 
Highland Drive on November 8, 2022. Condition number 19 of the approval requires that the 
Planning Commission conduct a one-year review of the project to confirm compliance with all 
conditions of approval.  
 
As part of the one-year review, the applicant has requested that the Planning Commission 
consider amending condition of approval number 16, to increase the maximum number of 
residents from 16 to 24. All other conditions of approval would remain in effect.  
 
5
3 
 
The use began operation in April of 2023. The use is an existing building with sixteen (16) 
bedrooms, seventeen and a half (17 ½) bathrooms, a living room, dining room, kitchen, laundry, 
and office area. The original use, approved in 2011, was a group home/assisted living center.  
 
General Information.  
 
• Age: male and females, age 18 and up 
• Number of Patients: Max 16 
• Number of on-site employees: 1-4 
• Residential treatment living patients stay 1-7 days 
• Group living patients’ length of stay: 30, 60 or 90 days.  
• Therapy provided: Treatment for each resident is specific to his or her needs.  
• Hours of operation: 24/7. 
• Parking: Variable: 8 designated sites on site. Staff, therapists, visitors and 2 - 3 company 
vans.  
 
One Year Review 
 
The project received all necessary building permits and approvals. Staff inspected the site and 
found that the conditions of approval for fencing, smoking areas, and landscaping were met.  
 
Staff spoke with the following departments to confirm compliance with the conditions of 
approval: 
 
1. Code Enforcement. No official complaints were received. The Code Enforcement officers 
conducted a surprise visit to the property on May 12, 2024, no violations were reported.  
2. Sheriffs Office: No official complaints were reported.  
3. Fire: The fire department reported no complaints.  
4. Public Works: During the public hearing, Concerns were raised that the proposed 
dumpster location would cause trucks to back into the street and create a hazard to 
traffic. Condition 26 requires that the garbage collection on site be reviewed specifically 
as part of the one-year review. Public works officials have not received any complaints 
about the garbage collection on site.  
 
Staff finds that the applicant has complied with the conditions of approval from the original 
Planning Commission approval.  
 
Number of Residents 
 
The Planning Commission limited the number of patients to 16. The applicant has requested the 
number be increased to 24. The rationale behind the Planning Commission decision was that 
the previous use of the building was a nursing home, with 16 residents in 16 bedrooms. It 
6
4 
 
would be logical to allow 16 residents in 16 bedrooms for the current use. Bringing more people 
on site and increasing the occupancy would over program the facility which would mean more 
impacts on adjacent neighbors.  
 
The applicant states that the facility is large enough to accommodate 24 persons, and they have 
demonstrated that they are able to operate in the neighborhood without causing significant 
impacts to the neighboring properties.  
 
There are 16 bedrooms in the building, which means 8 would have two residents and 8 would 
have one.  There would be 1/3 more trash generated, more deliveries and generally more 
activity on site. The applicant has stated that the original vision was to accommodate 32 
residents, and that the infrastructure in the building can handle the increase to 24 as it will still 
place them well below capacity.  
 
Staff requests that the Planning Commission discuss whether the increase in residents would 
also increase the potential impacts on the neighborhood.   
 
Recommendation 
Staff recommends that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission conducts a work session to 
do the following: 
 
1. Conduct a one-year review of the proposed Residential Treatment Facility.  
2. Review the amended Conditional Use Permit application which proposes to increase the 
maximum number of residents from 16-24 and provide staff with direction 
 
Attachments   
 
Exhibit A –  Site Plan 
Exhibit B -  Emails from service providers.  
Exhibit C - Public Comment  
 
7
6
5 3
3
NO.REVISIONSBYDATE
SHEET:C-1PARK CITY RECOVERY CENTERSITE PLAN241 WEST HIGHLAND  DR. PARK CITY, UTAH
LEGEND
15030456090 SCALE: 1" = 30'NORTH
Actual construction shall comply with applicable 
local ordinances and adopted building codes.
Actual construction shall comply with applicable 
local ordinances and adopted building codes.
REVIEWED FOR CODE COMPLIANCE
01/20/2023 9:16:00 AM
Summit County
The issuance of a permit based on construction documents
and other data shall not prevent the building official from
requiring the correction of errors in the construction documents
and other data. The building official is authorized to prevent
occupancy or use of a structure where in violation of the
applicable code or of any other ordinances of Summit County.
8
5 
 
SERVICE PROVIDER EMAILS 
 
Ray, 
 
In the past year we have had two calls for service from this facility, neither of which was a 
major incident. One was a medical issue, and one was a complaint from a former resident 
which the deputy decided was a civil problem. Give me a call if you need anything more 
specific. 
 
 
Capt. Ken Jones  
Summit Co. Sheriff's Office 
6300 S. Justice Center Rd. 
Park City, Utah 84098 
435.615.3579 Office 
 
Ray, 
 
We have had no complaints or problems out there.  Our last inspection resulted in zero 
violations.  They are better than most. 
 
We’ve had no complaints from the community around them either. 
 
Let me know if you need anything else. 
 
Have a great day. 
 
Battalion Chief Mike Owens 
District Fire Marshal 
Fire Prevention Bureau 
(435) 940-2520 
 
John Angell 
 
To:Ray Milliner 
We have not received any complaints concerning this.  It looks like the garbage truck doesn’t fit 
under the covered entry and can’t even get to the dumpster enclosure. 
  
John 
RM 
9
6 
 
Public Comment  
 
 
Wed 5/29/2024 9:54 AM 
Hello Summit County Council…. 
  
I am w riting  to you as President of the Park Ridge Estates HOA and as a resident of Summit County 
in regard to Wasatch Crest and the understanding they have approached the Council ( or plan to on 
6/5/2024) to request a change to their CUP to increase their number of Beds / residents allowed in 
the facility.  At the time the CUP was granted and for months prior we as residents and you as 
council reviewed and determined that the number of Beds should not exceed the prior Business 
(16).  Increasing the number of beds would increase the number of visitors, the number of vehicles 
the amount of trash generated and the amount of Staff required for supporting their facility which 
is already causing more impact than they had led us to believe.  I recall significant energy spent by 
the applicant to assure us that EMS activity would be minimal, less than their Heber Valley location. 
I have asked Planing to request the EMS call logs for the facility that I ask you review as we have 
lost count on the responses.    There was a strict “no street parking” allowed as a condition of the 
CUP though that d idn’t  stop staff from parking on View Drive and walking to the facility during the 
week of March 22nd 
  
T
here has been significant daily traffic in and out of the facility, which calls into question if they 
have been operating in accordance with the limited Residential Treatment Facility license which 
they are permitted or,  have they  quietly expanded that scope to day treatment or more.  I have also 
asked the County to do an spot inspection aligned to their annual review to check into the use, 
which I hope you will have the opportunity to also review. I would note that for the last month the 
applicant appears to have dramatically reduced the volume of vehicles in and out as if in prep for 
the June meeting with you. Our memories are a bit longer than that. 
  
This is a family neighborhood, while the Trailside Elementary Principle helped move the Bus Stop 
to Park Ridge for our younger children the district has not authorized the move of the Middle 
School or the High school, and as the children in the neighborhood grow older, they will shift to the 
stop adjacent to the facility…..more beds means more residents and more activity and more outdoor 
conversations they may be exposed to.  
  
We as a ne ighborhood  feel that we all reached a reasonable solution and volume for Wasatch Crest 
to operate. I don’t know what would have changed or why council would even contemplate 
allowing expansion of their CUP beyond 16 beds and hope you will dismiss any such request. 
  
Thank you for your service and consideration. 
  
Jon 
 
 
Jon Weinberg 
M: 775.378.0001 
Weinberg.jonathan@ gmail.com 
 
10
AGENDA ITEM NO. 1
Staff Report
 
 
DATE:
June 11, 2024
SUBMITTED BY:
Vicki Geary, Planning
ITEM TYPE:
Discussion
AGENDA SECTION:
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
SUBJECT:
Public input items not on the agenda or pending applications.
SUGGESTED ACTION:
ESTIMATED TIME:
INTRODUCTION:
BACKGROUND:
CONCLUSION:
 
 
 
SNYDERVILLE BASIN PLANNING COMMISSION AGENDA ITEM REPORT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENTS:
11
AGENDA ITEM NO. 2
Staff Report
 
 
DATE:
June 11, 2024
SUBMITTED BY:
Jennifer Strader, Community Development
ITEM TYPE:
Action
AGENDA SECTION:
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
SUBJECT:
Public Hearing, Possible Action regarding a 
Conditional Use
Permit/Master Planned Development for a 26,431 SF expansion of
an existing Public Facility, the Summit County Justice Center, located
at 6300 Justice Center Road. GSBS Architects, Applicants.
Administrative Process. Project #24-028.
Jennifer Strader, 
Senior Planner.
 
SUGGESTED ACTION:
ESTIMATED TIME:
INTRODUCTION:
BACKGROUND:
CONCLUSION:
 
 
 
SNYDERVILLE BASIN PLANNING COMMISSION AGENDA ITEM REPORT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENTS:
Staff Report SBPC 6.11.24.pdf
12
 Community Development Department 
P.O. Box 128 
60 North Main Street 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
summitcounty.org 
 
  
 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
To:   Snyderville Basin Planning Commission   
From:   Jennifer Strader, Senior Planner 
Date of Meeting:  June 11, 2024 
Type of Item:  Conditional Use Permit/Master Planned Development 
Process:  Public Hearing - Administrative Review 
File #:   24-028 
 
 
Recommendation: Staff has reviewed the application for compliance with all standards 
in the Snyderv ille Basin Development Code (Code) and found that it m eets the minimum 
required for approval.  Staff recommends that the Snyderville Basin Planning  Commission 
(SBPC) review the proposed Conditional Use Permit /Master Planned Development, conduct a  
public hearing, and approve the  application, pursuant to the findings of fact, conclusions of 
law, and conditions of approval found in this Staff Report. 
 
Project Description 
Project Name:   Summit County Justice Center Expansion  
Applicant(s):   GSBS Architects  
Property Owner(s):  Summit County  
Location:   6300 Justice Center Road  
Zone District:   Community Commercial (CC)   
Parcel Number and Size: MPSC-6A-AM-X, 18.38 acres  
Type of Process:  Administrative 
Final Land Use Authority: Snyderville Basin Planning Commission 
 
Proposal 
The applicant, GSBS Architects, on behalf of Summit County, is requesting approval of a 
Conditional Use Permit for a 26,431 SF expansion of an existing Public Facility, the Summit 
County Justice Center, located at 6300 Justice Center Road. A Public Facility is listed as a 
conditional use in Section 10-2-10 of the Snyderville Basin Development Code (Code) in the CC 
zone district. A Master Planned Development (MPD) is also required because the expansion 
exceeds 10,000 square feet of gross floor area. The proposal includes an expansion of the 
Sheriff’s offices and County Attorney’s offices. 
 
 
 
13
2 
 
Vicinity Map 
 
 
Background 
The Summit County Justice Center was constructed in 1997. It houses the Sheriff Department 
Offices, Corrections/County Jail, Justice Court, District Court, and Summit County Attorney’s 
Offices.  
 
Analysis and Findings 
MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENT  
Section 10-3-11 of the Code outlines the following requirements for a Master Planned 
Development.  
 
Table 1 
MPD Requirement Analysis Finding 
Affected Properties 
Property under the ownership of 
Summit County should be planned 
comprehensively. 
Summit County owns lot 6A of the 
Market Place at Silver Creek Lot 6A  
Amended Subdivision. Summit 
County also owns two adjacent 
parcels that are located in the FJ 
Gillmor Subdivision Second 
Amended. Those lots are in the RR 
zone district which contains 
different uses than the CC zone 
district, where the Justice Center 
currently exists. 
COMPLIES 
 
14
3 
 
 
Density  
The type of development and 
number of units created shall be 
determined by a site suitability 
analysis. 
In the CC zone district, density is 
determined by the ability of the 
proposed development to meet all 
required development and 
performance standards and criteria 
set forth in the Code. These items 
are reviewed in detail further in 
this report. 
COMPLIES 
 
CC Zone District Setbacks 
Front: 30’ 
Side: 12’ 
Rear: 12’ 
 
Proposed Minimum Setbacks  
Front: 492’3” 
North Side: 108’6” 
South Side: ~440’ 
Rear: 342’2” 
COMPLIES 
 
 
RR Zone Max Building Height 
32’  
 
 
 
Proposed Max Building Height 
~31’6’ (highest point) 
COMPLIES 
Designing with Topography 
MPDs shall be designed to fit into 
the topography of the site. 
 
Per the applicant, “The site has 
been previously developed and has 
been graded to minimal slope 
which runs from south to north. No 
substantial grade change is 
anticipated with this addition.”   
COMPLIES 
 
Designing with Adjacent Uses 
The MPD site plan shall take 
adjacent land uses into 
consideration. Development 
along the project perimeter shall 
adequately mitigate any potential 
impacts.  
Adjacent uses include a Rocky 
Mountain Power warehouse and 
operations center and self-storage 
units.  
COMPLIES 
 
 Building Location 
Buildings shall be located to avoid 
Critical Lands and be oriented to 
encourage solar design principles. 
 
There are no Critical Lands on the 
proposed lot. Per the applicant, 
“The building will be designed to 
allow future solar panels that may 
be added when funding is 
available.”   
COMPLIES 
 
15
4 
 
 
Access 
Access to be provided from a 
state highway or county road. All 
Developments shall have a 
secondary point of access 
 
There is currently one point of 
access to the Justice Center. A new 
primary access road will be 
extended from Paintbrush Drive 
(located west of the Justice Center) 
to the primary parking lot. The 
current access will become a 
secondary access to serve a secure 
parking lot.    
COMPLIES 
Trails 
Existing trails should be 
incorporated into the project. 
Trails easements for existing trails 
may be required. Construction of 
new trails may be required.  
There are not any existing public 
trail connections on or near this 
property except for the sidewalks 
and bike lanes located in the 
county road easements.  
COMPLIES 
Connectivity 
All MPDs shall provide a means of 
direct, and safe pedestrian and 
bicycle linkages within the project 
as well as connections to 
adjacent sidewalks, bike paths, 
etc.  
A sidewalk extending to Paintbrush 
Drive from the public parking lot 
will be provided. Pedestrian 
connectivity through the site would 
not be safe due to the need for 
security.  
COMPLIES 
Snow Removal 
Uncovered parking lots shall 
provide snow storage equal to 
10% of the uncovered parking lot 
surface.  
 
Parking Area Surface = 59,042 SF 
10% = 5,904.2 SF 
Snow Storage Area Provided: 
10,977 SF 
COMPLIES 
Waste Disposal/Recycling 
Garbage and recycling container 
locations shall be shown on the 
site plan and are required to be in 
a fully enclosed structure.  
The garbage/recycling location has 
been shown on the site plan and 
plans for the enclosed structure 
have been provided.  
COMPLIES 
Service and Delivery Access 
Service and delivery areas must 
be shown on the site plan and 
kept separate from pedestrian 
areas.  
Service and delivery access and 
loading/unloading areas are 
located behind the secure 
perimeter fence. Access is limited. 
 
COMPLIES 
16
5 
 
 
  Utilities 
Existing and proposed utilities will 
be adequate to support the 
proposed project at normal 
service levels.  
 
The plans have been sent to 
applicable utility providers. No 
concerns have been raised. Prior to 
building permit issuance, Mt. 
Regional Water, Summit County 
Health Department, Snyderville 
Basin Water Reclamation District, 
and the Park City Fire District are 
required to review and approve the 
construction plans.  
COMPLIES 
Transportation 
MPDs shall include transportation 
amenities including drop off 
areas, bike racks, bikes lanes, etc.  
The Justice Center is serviced by 
High Valley Transit in a micro zone 
district. Bike parking is available at 
the facility. 
COMPLIES 
Employee/Affordable Housing  
All MPD applications shall include 
a housing mitigation plan as 
required by Chapter 5 of the 
Code.  
Section 10-5-2 of the Code states 
that construction of public facilities 
are exempt from the affordable 
housing requirements. There are 
no affordable units proposed. 
COMPLIES 
Open Space/Public Spaces 
All MPDs shall provide at least 
the minimum zone-required open 
space. The CC zone requires 25% 
open space. 
Open space provided: ~55% COMPLIES 
Off-Street Parking  
Expansion of existing industrial 
uses in the CC zone district shall 
provide parking commensurate 
with the present on site parking 
ratio, unless it can be 
demonstrated that a different 
parking standards or no 
additional parking is appropriate. 
There are 147 parking stalls 
proposed. The applicant states, 
“Calculations project that there is 
no need for additional parking 
based on employee count and shift 
distribution.” 
COMPLIES 
Parking Lot Landscaping 
At least 15% of the internal 
portion of a parking lot shall be 
landscaped. 
 
Parking Area Surface = 59,042 SF 
15% = 8,856.3 SF 
Parking Lot Landscaping Provided: 
10,200 SF 
COMPLIES 
 
17
6 
 
The MPD review requires compliance with the Development Standards in the Code. However, 
many of those standards have been addressed in Table 1 above. The remaining standards for 
development are addressed below in Table 2. 
 
Table 2 - Development Standards 
Code Requirement Analysis Finding 
Environmental Criteria 
*Air Quality 
*Water Quality 
*Watershed Protection 
*Sewage Disposal 
 
The development does not contain 
any elements that would have a 
negative effect on air quality in a 
manner that would require State 
approval. 
 
The development will tie into the 
existing water and sewer systems.  
COMPLIES 
Fire Protection  
Ability to provide fire protection 
letter from the Park City Fire 
Service District required.  
The plans were sent to the Park 
City Fire District for their review. 
On March 11, 2024, they replied, 
“PCFD has no objection to this 
project.”  
 
Prior to building permit issuance, 
they will be required to review and 
approve the construction plans.  
COMPLIES 
 
Water and Water Supply 
Willing to serve letter required 
prior to development permit 
approval. 
 
Mountain Regional Water is the 
water supplier for this 
development. They do not have 
any conditions of approval required 
for the Conditional Use Permit.  
COMPLIES 
Mail Delivery 
Locations for mail delivery shall 
be shown on the site plan. 
There is no change in mail delivery.  COMPLIES 
ADA Access 
All buildings intended for public 
use shall be accessible, as per the 
requirements of the international 
building code. 
Prior to the issuance of a building 
permit, the project will be 
reviewed by representatives from 
the building department for 
compliance with all ADA 
requirements.   
TO BE VERIFIED 
PRIOR TO 
BUILDING PERMIT 
ISSUANCE 
Special Site Design 
Requirements 
There are no special site design 
requirements for the property. 
COMPLIES 
 
18
7 
 
 
Architectural Regulations for All 
Structures 
The proposed structures, as 
designed, comply with the 
architectural requirements. Minor 
changes may be necessary to 
ensure compliance with Building 
Code requirements; however, Staff 
will ensure any changes will not 
affect the overall massing, scale, 
character, and/or function of the 
buildings.  
COMPLIES 
(as conditioned) 
Landscape Regulations The landscaping plan is in 
compliance with Section 10-4-20 of 
the Code. 
COMPLIES 
Lighting Regulations 
All development permit 
applications or submittals that 
propose exterior outdoor lighting 
or street lighting shall include a 
lighting plan that shows evidence 
that the proposed lighting 
fixtures and light sources comply 
with the Code.  
 
All outdoor lighting legally 
existing and installed prior to the 
effective date of this section and 
which is not exempted shall be 
considered nonconforming and 
shall be brought into compliance 
by the property owner as 
follows: Immediate abatement as 
a condition for approval upon 
application for a conditional use 
permit when said site 
improvements, construction, 
reconstruction, expansion, 
alteration or modification of 
existing sites, structures, or uses 
individually or cumulatively equal 
or exceed one thousand five 
hundred (1,500) square feet. 
Proposed lighting complies with 
Section 10-4-21 of the Code.  
 
Existing lighting is proposed to be 
brought into compliance as 
evidenced in the proposed lighting 
plan. 
COMPLIES 
 
19
8 
 
General Plan Review 
All MPD applications shall be reviewed for consistency with the goals and objectives of the 
Snyderville Basin General Plan.  
 
The Summit County Justice Center expansion supports the following statements in the General 
Plan: 
• Provide efficient delivery of services. 
• Locate service areas in appropriate areas. 
• Maintain adequate levels of service for the public. 
 
Environmental Management Explanation 
An MPD Application shall include a written explanation of how the project plan addresses the 
following environmental issues (Page 4, Exhibit A). 
• Natural environment  
• Water quality 
• Air quality 
• Protection of critical lands 
• Energy efficiency 
• Building materials 
• Recycling/waste disposal 
• Climate responsive design 
• Landscaping 
 
Site Design Narrative 
An MPD application shall include a written explanation of how the project plan addresses the 
following design questions (Pages 4-6, Exhibit A). 
• Project neighborhood connectivity 
• Availability of neighborhood public facilities 
• Housing needs 
• Character 
• Site design 
• Complete street design 
• Parking areas 
• Public and private outdoor spaces 
• External storage and service facilities 
• Building design 
 
Conditional Use Permit Criteria for Approval 
No conditional use permit shall be approved unless the applicant demonstrates that: 
  
Standard 1: The use is in accordance with the General Plan. 
  
20
9 
 
Analysis: Analyzed in the “General Plan Review” section above. 
 
Standard 2: The use conforms to all applicable provisions of this Title, including, but not limited 
to, any applicable provisions of this Section and Chapter 4 of this Title, the General Plan, and 
State and Federal regulations. 
  
Analysis: Analyzed in Table 1 and the Development Standards chart above.
 
 
Standard 3: The use is not detrimental to public health, safety and welfare;  
 
Analysis: Staff has not found any evidence that the use would be detrimental to public 
health, safety, and welfare.  
 
Standard 4: The use is appropriately located with respect to public facilities  
   
Analysis: All necessary public facilities are available on site, including water, sewer, and 
roads. Parking, internal circulation, and access have been reviewed by the Summit 
County Engineering Department and Park City Fire District. 
 
Standard 5: The use is compatible with the existing neighborhood character and with the 
character and purpose provision of the applicable zoning district and will not adversely affect 
surrounding land uses.  
 
Analysis: Adjacent uses include a Rocky Mountain Power warehouse and operations 
center and self-storage units. The Summit County Justice Center is classified as a Public 
Facility in the Code and is allowed pending approval of a Conditional Use Permit in the 
CC zone district. 
 
Special Conditional Use Permit Standards: In addition to the standards established in this 
section and in chapter 4 of [the Code] for particular uses, all conditional uses within a zoning 
district shall conform to the following standards and criteria: 
 
Code Requirement Analysis Finding 
Escrow for Extraordinary Costs 
The commission may require the applicant 
subject to an application for CUP approval 
to establish or post a bond for infrastructure 
improvements, including any conditions of 
approval. 
Upon submittal of a 
building permit, the Summit 
County Engineering 
Department will require 
construction drawings for 
the infrastructure and any 
associated bonding will be 
determined and accepted 
at that time. 
COMPLIES 
21
10 
 
No Reduction in Level of Services 
The proposed development shall not cause 
a reduction in the adopted level of service 
for any public facility. 
All applicable service 
providers have reviewed 
the proposal and indicated 
they have capacity to serve 
the development. 
COMPLIES 
Lighting See analysis under Standard 
2 table above. 
COMPLIES 
Preserve Topography, Soils, Critical Areas, 
etc. 
The natural topography, soils, critical areas, 
watercourses and vegetation shall be 
preserved whenever possible.  
Staff’s review of the 
application indicates that it 
meets the minimum 
requirements for approval. 
Please refer to the MPD 
analysis section above. 
COMPLIES 
Roads  
All roads shall provide free movement for 
safe an efficient use within a development. 
The Summit County 
Engineering Department 
reviewed the proposed 
plans and did not find that 
road conditions would be 
negatively affected by the 
development. 
COMPLIES 
Vehicle and Pedestrian Passageways 
Vehicular and pedestrian passageways 
shall be separated from public rights of 
way. Pedestrian pathways shall be 
provided. 
A sidewalk extending to 
Paintbrush Drive from the 
public parking lot will be 
provided. Pedestrian 
connectivity through the 
site would not be safe due 
to the need for security. 
COMPLIES 
 Scale of Buildings 
Buildings shall provide a human scale.  
The proposed building scale 
is compatible with the 
existing Justice Center and 
the surrounding area and 
meets all applicable Code 
requirements. 
COMPLIES 
Runoff 
Volume of post- development runoff shall 
not exceed pre-development runoff. 
The Summit County 
Engineering Department 
reviewed the plans for 
runoff and found the 
proposal complies with 
their requirements. 
COMPLIES 
Landscaping See analysis under Standard 
2 table above. 
 COMPLIES 
 
22
11 
 
Recommendation 
Staff recommends that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission (SBPC) review the proposed 
Conditional Use Permit, conduct a public hearing, and approve the application, pursuant to the 
following findings of fact, conclusions of law, and conditions of approval. 
 
Findings of Fact: 
1. The applicant, GSBS Architects, on behalf of Summit County, submitted a Conditional 
Use Permit/Master Planned Development application for an expansion of an existing 
Public Facility, the Summit County Justice Center, located 6300 Justice Center Road 
(Parcel MPSC-6A-AM-X). 
2. Parcel MPSC-6A-AM-X contains 18.38 acres.  
3. Parcel MPSC-6A-AM-X is owned by Summit County. 
4. Parcel MPSC-6A-AM-X is located in the Community Commercial zone district.  
5. A Public Facility is listed as a conditional use in Section 10-2-10 of the Snyderville Basin 
Development Code in the RR zone district. 
6. A Master Planned Development (MPD) is required because the building(s) exceed 
10,000 square feet of gross floor area.  
7. The proposal includes an expansion of the Sheriff’s offices and County Attorney’s 
offices. 
8. The Summit County Justice Center was constructed in 1997. 
9.  The Summit County Justice Center houses the Sheriff Department Offices, 
Corrections/County Jail, Justice Court, District Court, and Summit County Attorney’s 
Offices. 
10. Summit County owns lot 6A of the Market Place at Silver Creek Lot 6A Amended 
Subdivision.  
11. Summit County owns two adjacent parcels that are located in the FJ Gillmor Subdivision 
Second Amended. Those lots are in the RR zone district which contains different uses 
than the CC zone district, where the Justice Center currently exists. 
12. In the CC zone district, density is determined by the ability of the proposed 
development to meet all required development and performance standards and criteria 
set forth in the Code. 
13. The proposed setbacks are:  
 Front: 492’3” 
 North Side: 108’6” 
 South Side: ~440’ 
 Rear: 342’2” 
14. The maximum height of the structure, at its highest point, is ~31’6”.  
15. Per the applicant, “The site has been previously developed and has been graded to 
minimal slope which runs from south to north. No substantial grade change is 
anticipated with this addition.”   
16. Adjacent uses include a Rocky Mountain Power warehouse and operations center and 
self-storage units.  
17. There are no Critical Lands on the subject parcel. 
23
12 
 
18. Per the applicant, “The building will be designed to allow future solar panels that may be 
added when funding is available.”   
19. There is currently one point of access to the Justice Center.  
20. A new primary access road will be extended from Paintbrush Drive (located west of the 
Justice Center) to the primary parking lot.  
21. The current access will become a secondary access to serve a secure parking lot.    
22. There are not any existing public trail connections on or near this property except for 
the sidewalks and bike lanes located in the county road easements. 
23. A sidewalk extending to Paintbrush Drive from the public parking lot will be provided. 
24. Pedestrian connectivity through the site would not be safe due to the need for security. 
25. Snow Storage Area Provided: 10,977 SF 
26. The garbage/recycling location has been shown on the site plan and plans for the 
enclosed structure have been provided. 
27. Service and delivery access and loading/unloading areas are located behind the secure 
perimeter fence. 
28. The plans have been sent to applicable utility providers. No concerns have been raised.  
29. Prior to building permit issuance, Mt. Regional Water, Summit County Health 
Department, Snyderville Basin Water Reclamation District, and the Park City Fire District 
are required to review and approve the construction plans. 
30. The Justice Center is serviced by High Valley Transit in a micro zone district.  
31. Bike parking is available at the facility. 
32. Section 10-5-2 of the Code states that construction of public facilities are exempt from 
 the affordable housing requirements.  
33. There are no affordable units proposed. 
34. Open space provided: ~55% 
35. There are 147 parking stalls proposed.  
36. The applicant states, “Calculations project that there is no need for additional 
 parking based on employee count and shift distribution.” 
37. Parking Lot Landscaping Provided: 10,200 SF 
38. The development does not contain any elements that would have a negative effect on 
 air quality in a manner that would require State approval. 
39. The development will tie into the existing water and sewer systems. 
40. The plans were sent to the Park City Fire District for their review. On March 11, 2024, 
 they replied, “PCFD has no objection to this project.”  
41. Mountain Regional Water is the water supplier for this development. They do not have 
 any conditions of approval required for the Conditional Use Permit. 
42. There is no change in mail delivery. 
43. Prior to the issuance of a building permit, the project will be reviewed by 
 representatives from the building department for compliance with all ADA 
 requirements.   
44. There are no special site design requirements for the property. 
45. The proposed structures, as designed, comply with the architectural requirements. 
46. The landscaping plan is in compliance with Section 10-4-20 of the Code. 
24
13 
 
47. Proposed lighting complies with Section 10-4-21 of the Code.  
48. Existing lighting is proposed to be brought into compliance as evidenced in the proposed 
 lighting plan. 
49. The Summit County Justice Center expansion supports the following statements in the 
 General Plan: Provide efficient delivery of services. Locate service areas in appropriate 
 areas. Maintain adequate levels of service for the public. 
50. All necessary public facilities are available on site, including water, sewer, and roads. 
 Parking, internal circulation, and access have been reviewed by the Summit County 
 Engineering Department and Park City Fire District. 
51. Upon submittal of a building permit, the Summit County Engineering Department will 
 require construction drawings for the infrastructure and any associated bonding will be 
 determined and accepted at that time. 
52. All applicable service providers have reviewed the proposal and indicated they have 
 capacity to serve the development. 
53. The Summit County Engineering Department reviewed the proposed plans and did not 
 find that road conditions would be negatively affected by the development. 
54. The Summit County Engineering Department reviewed the plans for runoff and found 
 the proposal complies with their requirements. 
 
Conclusions of Law: 
1. The MPD has been designed to fit well into the natural terrain, minimize excessive site 
grading and protect, preserve, and enhance the level of quality of the surrounding area.  
2. The MPD makes suitable provisions for the protection, preservation, and enhancement 
of watercourses, drainage areas, wooded areas, rough terrain and similar natural 
features and areas.  
3. The MPD takes adjacent land uses into consideration and mitigates potential impacts, 
including, but not limited to flooding, erosion, subsidence, sloping of the soil or other 
dangers and nuisances, through careful planning. 
4. The MPD has direct vehicular access from a County road, meeting all requirements of 
the County Engineer and Park City Fire District. 
5. The MPD has a secondary point of access/emergency access satisfactory to the Summit 
County Engineer and Park City Fire District. 
6. All roads/streets within the MPD follow the natural contours of the site wherever 
possible to minimize the amount of grading. 
7. Proposed utility and public services are adequate to support the proposed MPD at 
normal service levels and have been designed in a manner to avoid adverse impacts on 
adjacent land uses, public services, and utility resources. 
8. The proposed structures within the MPD are located on the most developable and least 
environmentally sensitive portions of the site. The open areas within the MPD are 
designed so that existing significant vegetation can be maintained to the greatest 
degree possible. 
9. The MPD includes adequate internal vehicular and pedestrian circulation. 
25
14 
 
10. The Buildings within the Development provide good quality internal and external 
environments for their users, promoting health and welfare. 
11. The proposed project integrates existing and incorporates new natural features into a 
multifunctional network that supports quality of place, biodiversity, and water 
management. 
12. The MPD, as conditioned, complies with the requirements of Chapter 4 of the Code. 
13. The MPD, as conditioned, is consistent with the General Plan. 
14. The MPD has been noticed and a public hearing held in accordance with the Code.  
15. The use is not detrimental to the public health, safety, and welfare. 
16. The use is appropriately located with respect to public facilities. 
17. The use is compatible with the existing neighborhood character and with the character 
and purpose provision of the applicable zoning district and will not adversely affect 
surrounding land uses.  
 
Conditions of Approval: 
1. Prior to building permit issuance, all service provider requirements shall be satisfied. 
2. An amendment to this Conditional Use Permit is not necessary if the applicant wishes to 
construct solar panels on any of the buildings in the future. 
3. Minor changes to the Conditional Use Permit may be necessary to ensure compliance 
with Building Code requirements. If such changes will not affect the overall massing, 
scale, character, and/or function of the buildings, they may be approved by the 
Community Development Director or authorized designee. 
4. Prior to issuance of a building permit, a Development Agreement that contains the 
following information shall be approved and recorded.  
 a.  A legal description of the land; 
b.  All relevant zoning and Development Code parameters, including all findings, 
conclusions, and conditions of approval, specifying any exceptions outlining 
more or less restrictive Height or Setbacks; 
c.  An express reservation of the future legislative powers and zoning authority of 
the County; 
d. A copy of the approved Site plan, architectural plans, Landscaping plans, Grading 
plan, trails and Open Space plans, and other plans, which are part of the 
approval; 
 e. A description of all Developer exactions or agreed upon public dedications; 
 f. The Developers agreement to pay all specified impact fees; 
 g. The form of ownership anticipated for the project; 
 h. A specific project phasing plan.  
5. This Conditional Use Permit shall expire one year from the date of approval unless the 
Conditional Use Permit activity has begun, or an extension is requested in writing by the 
applicant and granted by the Community Development Director. 
 
 
26
15 
 
Public Notice, Meetings and Comments  
This item was publicly noticed as a public hearing with possible action by the Snyderville Basin 
Planning Commission.  Notice of the public hearing was published in The Park Record. Courtesy 
postcards were mailed to all property owners within 1,000 feet of the subject Parcel. 
 
As of the date of this report, no public comment has been received.   
 
Attachments  
Exhibit A – Applicant’s MPD Narrative and Proposed Plans   
 
27
February 16, 2024 
CUP Application 
Proposed Project Description: 
The 2-story, connected expansion of the Summit County Justice Center will accommodate new offices 
and operational space for the offices of the Summit County Sheriff and Attorney. The 26,431 sf facility 
includes: 
• Sheriff Office (Main Floor):
o Reception and Waiting area
o Patrol Sergeant Offices and shared workstations
o Detective Offices and workstations
o Holding and Interview Rooms
o Swat and Drone Storage
o IT Office and Server Room
o Public and Staff Restrooms
o Building Engineer Office
o Fitness/Training Room with lockers and showers
o Retreat/Lactation Room
o Mail and Laundry Rooms
o K-9 Room (Shelled/Unfinished)
o Equipment Room(s)
• Sheriff Office (2nd Floor)
o Administration Support Workstations
o Sheriff Office
o Chief Deputy Office
o Captain Offices
o Lieutenant and Sergeant Offices
o Conference Room
o Storage Room
• Attorney Office:
o Reception and Waiting
o Paralegal Workstations
o County Attorney Office
o Chief Prosecutor Office
o Lawyer Offices
o Investigator Offices
o War Room
o Conference Room
o Future Paralegal
• Shared Space
o Public Entry and Security Screening Station
o Secure Staff Entry/Vestibule
o Vertical Circulation
1
EXHIBIT A
28
▪ Open Lobby Stair
▪ Enclosed Stair
▪ Elevator
o Public Restrooms
o Janitor Closets
o Staff Restrooms
o Data and Telecom Room(s)
o Shared Conference Room
o Shared Break Room
o Lactation Room
o Janitor Room, and support space
Portions of the facility are operational 24/7. The addition, once completed, will enable the relocation of 
existing Sheriff and Attorney staff from the existing Justice Center and District Court building. Interior 
modifications will occur in the existing Justice Center to expand Dispatch, Evidence Storage, and the 
Muster/Training Room. Vacated office space will be repurposed for Jail Staff and will receive new 
finishes. Minor layout changes to the District Court Attorney offices are planned for that space on a 
similar timeline. 
MPD Requirements: 
1. Affected Properties: The application includes parcel 6A of the Market Place at Silver Summit
Development.
2. Density: The property is zoned CC. The application is for a public facility and is a conditional use
in the that zone.
3. Setbacks: Placement of structures on the site complies with all CC Zone setbacks.
4. Building Height: All structures on the site comply with CC height restrictions and Snyderville
Basin Design Guidelines – 32’ maximum height and not higher than 32’ above existing grade.
5. Site Planning:
a. Designing with Topography: The site has been previously developed and has been
graded to minimal slope which runs from south to north. No substantial grade change is
anticipated with this addition. However, the finish floor of the new building and the
single-point security check station will be pushed down approximately 18” to follow the
descending existing grade. The maximum height of the new building will be calculated
from this lowest grade at the NW corner and north wall of the footprint, near the
existing pump house.
b. Designing with Adjacent Uses: Current compatible adjacent uses include a Rocky
Mountain Power Warehouse & Operations Center and Self-storage units flanking
Justice Center Drive.
c. Building Location: Proposed building locations do not impact critical lands. The building
orientation responds to the opportunity the existing site and facility allow. The building
will be designed to allow future solar panels that may be added when funding is
available.
d. Access: Currently, only one access point serves the existing Justice Center/District Court
Complex. The Sheriff’s Office has identified this condition as a potential threat to their
ability to serve the public and egress the site in a timely manner due to congestion on
2
29
secondary roads serving the area. To solve this access issue, a new, primary access road 
will be extended from Paintbrush Drive east to the primary public parking lot. 
Paintbrush Drive is currently under construction. The current Justice Center Drive will 
be reduced in importance to a secondary, operational access serving the Sheriff and 
Attorney secure parking lot, jail sallyport, gun range, equipment yard, and secure loop 
road.  
e. Trails: There are no existing or planned trails on the site or adjacent parcels.
f. Connectivity: A sidewalk extending to Paintbrush Drive from the public parking lot will
be provided.
g. Snow Removal: Snow removal will be provided with a combination of in-house staff
and contractors, with on-site snow storage areas to the north of both secure parking
areas. Existing detention basins are present in these planned storage areas.
h. Waste Disposal/Recycling Facilities: Two dumpsters are currently located on site. One
serves the District Court on the west side of the building, and the other serves the
Justice Center in the secure parking area.
i. Service and Delivery Access: Service and delivery access and loading/unloading areas
will occur behind the secure perimeter fence. Access is limited. These are separated
from pedestrian areas.
j. Utilities: Existing and proposed utilities are adequate to support the facility.
6. Transportation: The Justice Center and District Court Facility is a collocated public facility with
access from secondary roads and nearby Highway 40. The area is also served by High Valley
Transit in a Micro Zone district, which is an on-demand, on-line booking transit system utilizing
destination vans. Micro Zones also connect to bus routes, further extending site access. Drop-
off areas are located adjacent to the sidewalk connecting to the main entry/security checkpoint
at the Justice Center, and at the existing District Court Entrance. Bike parking at the new facility
is available for employees.
7. Employee/Affordable Housing: No employee/affordable housing is contemplated for this
project due to its secure facility posture.
8. Open Space/Public Spaces: The CC zone requires 25% open space. The developed site plan
provides approximately 55% open space, well in excess of the minimum.
9. Off-Street Parking: Parking complies with the requirements of 10-4-9 B. Calculations project
that there is no need for additional parking based on employee count and shift distribution.
10. Compliance with Development Evaluation Standards: The proposed development complies
with the development standards found in Chapter 4 including materials, building facades, roof
pitches, and similar requirements.
11. General Plan Review: The existing Justice Center and its proposed addition occur within the
East Basin which is a combination of Rural Residential and Community Commercial zones. The
project complies with the Snyderville Basin General Plan by:
a. Meeting the County’s sustainability goal through compliance with the State of Utah
High Performance Building System.
b. Enhancing public health and safety with expanded Sheriff and Attorney presence in the
Basin
c. Providing the required open space
d. Complying with the Rural Residential Overlay building height requirement.
3
30
e. Enhance public health and safety by increasing the ability of the County Sheriff to 
provide necessary services.  
f. Co-locating law enforcement and adjudication facilities 
g. Providing a level of public transportation to the site through HVT Micro Zone service. 
h. Minimizing impact to critical lands. 
i. Renovating, reusing, and repurposing existing space.  
j. . 
12. Environmental Management Explanation:  
a. Natural Environment: The building expansion is located on previously developed site 
and no substantial impact is anticipated. The existing terrain was taken in to account  to 
site the trailer parking in a location that would result in the least impact to the land and 
provide a natural screen from public view.  
b. Water Quality: The new structure will be connected to the existing Storm Drain system 
serving the site. Detention basins will be in place prefilter stormwater and to safely and 
efficiently control large event run-off.  
c. Air Quality: An efficient VAV mechanical system meets the targeted Energy Use Index 
(EUI) thus reducing the carbon footprint of the building. EV charging stations recently 
added to the facility parking areas will be retained and relocated. 
d. Protection of Critical Lands: The development is not adjacent to and does not include 
critical lands. 
e. Energy Efficiency: The buildings will comply with the State of Utah High Performance 
building standard that achieves a high level of efficiency. 
f. Building Materials: Durable and replaceable materials including metal panel, glass, 
stone and concrete are proposed for use on the exterior the buildings. 
g. Recycling/Waste Disposal: See 5.h  
h. Climate Responsive Design: 
i. Reduce snow accumulations at entrances/exits 
ii. Incorporate future photovoltaic capability on the roof of the addition 
iii. Locate windows/skylights to enhance opportunities for daylighting 
iv. Provide adequate snow storage and snow melt run-off capacity; and 
v. Contribute to Summit County’s sustainability goals. 
i. Landscaping: Where possible, existing native vegetation will not be disturbed. 
Revegetated areas will utilize native and water wise plant material. Other plant 
material selections were made based on the list maintained by the Director of 
Development or have been identified as water-wise plant material appropriate for this 
eco-region. More intensive plantings will be utilized at the building entrance to signify it 
and direct pedestrians appropriately. Due to the need for security cameras on this site, 
consideration was given to design that would not obstruct the view or create places to 
hide. 
MPD Site Design Narrative: 
a. Project Neighborhood Connectivity: Construction of a new county road adjacent to the 
site includes a sidewalk, protection strip, and an on-street bike lane. Pedestrians will 
have access from Paintbrush Road via a connecting sidewalk. Vehicles will enter and exit 
4
31
the site via two, two-way drive entrances, one from the new county road, and the other 
from Justice Center Drive to the north. 
b. Availability of Neighborhood Facilities and Services: The Sheriff/Attorney Office addition 
is not located within walking distances of schools, retail centers, parks, etc. The nature 
of the facility is not consistent with proximity to these services.  The proposed 
development could have access to the Snyderville Basin Recreation District trail system 
including the roadway/sidewalk system proposed in conjunction with this CUP/MPD 
application. 
c. Housing Needs: The proposed development does not consider the inclusion of deed 
restricted affordable housing as a second level of the administration/operations 
building.  
d. Character: The proposed Sheriff/Attorney Office addition balances the operational 
requirements and purpose of the facility type and with the character of the existing 
building and surrounding community through careful use of materials, building 
placement and massing to minimize visual impact on passersby and adjacent properties. 
e. Site Design: The site has been designed to accommodate the new facility and enhance 
visibility and access to the main entrance.  The new primary access road will help direct 
building visitors to the main entrance. Security setbacks from building faces have been 
incorporated with passive security barriers added to prevent force penetration and 
breaches of the building perimeter. Security is further enhanced with perimeter fencing 
and vehicle gates enclosing the service areas and will secure entrances from unwanted 
access.  
f. Complete Street Design: The new Paintbrush Road adjacent to the development is not 
included in this application but will include sidewalks and bike lanes and is designed for 
local road speeds. 
g. Parking Areas: Parking areas accommodate the anticipated number of daily visitors and 
employees based on shift distribution. High profile court cases will continue to be a 
challenge until the County has funds to expand the parking lot to the north. Additional 
parking for Sheriff department utility vehicles and trailers will be provided at the south 
of the complex inside the secure perimeter.  
h. Public and Private Outdoor Spaces:  The addition provides landscaped areas adjacent to 
the main building entrance with planned areas with seating for public and employee 
use. A new outdoor break area will be constructed to the east of the main entrance and 
just off a planned Dispatch Break Room which is part of a remodel project that will 
follow the construction of the new Sheriff/Attorney Office addition. This area will be 
available to all employees.  
i. External Storage and Service Facilities: The site plan accommodates recycling and 
garbage collection in two locations.  In addition, a utility yard with new transformer and 
back-up generator equipment, and a mechanical unit yard will be screened from view 
with ornamental fencing compatible with the architecture.  
j. Building Design: The buildings will be designed with an overlay of an Owner Project 
Requirements (OPR) charette. This OPR originally completed for the County Campus 
Building was updated for this project and its specific conditions with the assistance of 
the County’s Sustainability Director. All applicable and appropriate sustainability 
5
32
elements identified through the charette process will be incorporated into the design of 
the buildings. 
6
33
e
t
e
t
fo
e
fo
ADA ROUTE
SNOW STORAGE AREA:
5,469 SF
EV
EV
EV
EV
VAN
VAN
VAN
VAN
ADA ROUTE ADA ROUTE
ADA ROUTE
ADA ROUTE
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
355'-8"
36'-0"
325'-1"
25'-3"
50'-6"
26'-6"
e
26'-0"
12'-0"
SETBACK
30'-0"
SETBACK
30'-0" SETBACK
19'-0" SIDEWALK
CONNECTION
PDTT
SPEEDGATE
PERIMETER
SECURITY FENCE
PATIO FURNITURE;
OWNER TO PROVIDE
MECH. YARD
PATIO FURNITURE;
OWNER TO PROVIDE
FUTURE
K9 YARD
EX. GATE
TO REMAIN
EX. SECURITY ELEMENT TO BE
REMOVED
NEW ADA
STALLS
PLANTERS
QUARRY
BLOCKS
PEDESTRIAN
GATE
LIMIT OF DEMO. REF. CIVIL
SIDEWALK CONNECTION TO
SUBSTANCE CHECK-IN &
RELEASE PROCESSING
EX. CANOPY & COLUMNS TO BE
REMOVED. REF. ARCH. REPLACE
OR REPAIR CONCRETE  WALK
LIMIT OF PAVEMENT DEMO. REF CIVIL
LIMIT OF DEMO.
REF. CIVIL
EX.
SECURITY
FENCE
FUTURE DEMO LIMIT
EMPLOYEE
BREAK AREA
DUMPSTER
334'-2"
492'-3"
108'-6"
342'-2"
LIMIT OF DEMO. REF. CIVIL
30'-0"
SETBACK
12'-0"
SETBACK
12'-0" SETBACK
EXISTING SERVICE ROAD
29'-6"
30'-0" SETBACK
525'-0"
318'-3"
387'-10"
204'-2"
26'-0"
12'-0"SETBACK
639'-7"
208'-10"
104'-5"
240'-2"
104'-5"
104'-5"
93'-5"
113'-2"
283'-5"
220'-3"
242'-1"
196'-11"
5'-0"
26'-0"
113'-2"
278'-5"
MONUMENT
SIGN
MONUMENT SIGN
FLAGPOLES (3);
MAX 28' TALL
WAYFINDING SIGN
PAINTBRUSH ROAD
EXISTING JAIL AND
SHERIFF OFFICE
EXISTING
DISTRICT
COURTHOUSE
NEW COUNTY
ATTORNEY AND
SHERIFF OFFICE
EX. PARKING: 76 STALLS
NEW PARKING: 3 STALLS
EX. HELIPAD
EX. GUN RANGE
SNOW STORAGE AREA:
5,469 SF
EX. DETENTION POND
SNOW STORAGE
AREA: 2,551 SF
JUSTICE CENTER RD
32'-6"
EX.
STRUCTURE
EX. STRUCTURE
DETENTION POND
CONNECTOR ROAD AND
SIDEWALK, REF. CIVIL
(NOT IN SCOPE)
GRAVEL TRAILERPARKING AREA
BIKE RACK
WELL HEAD - PROTECT IN PLACE
15'-0"
FROM
ROW
PUMPHOUSE
VEHICLE ACCESS
SNOW STORAGE
AREA: 3453 SF
PAVED AREASSF% OF AREA
TOTAL UNCOVERED PARKING LOT 59,535 SF
SNOW STORAGE11,473 SF 19.27%
PARKING LANDSCAPE    9,961 SF 16.73%
PARKING STALLS
NO NEW PARKING STALLS REQUIRED BASED ON VISITOR AND EMPLOYEE SHIFTS
154 EXISTING STALLS
-11 TO BE DEMOLISHED
-1 TO BE CONVERTED TO A STRIPED ADA ACCESS AISLE
+3 NEW PARKING STALLS ADDED
+2 PARKING STALLS RECOVERED BY RELOCATING EXISTING DUMPSTER
                                                                                                                  
147 TOTAL STALLS
PARKING STALL SIZE = 9' X 18'
6300 JUSTICE CENTER RD, PARK CITY, UT 84098
375 WEST 200 SOUTH
SALT LAKE CITY, UT  84101
801.521.8600P
www.gsbsarchitects.comNOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
0' 20' 40' 60' 80'120'
101102103
104105
GSBS
ARCHITECTS
OWNER PROJECT NO.:
GSBS PROJECT NO.:
ISSUED DATE:
REV
SUMMIT COUNTY-
SO/AO
EXPANSION
BUILDING
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
APPLICATION
04/09/2024
2021.034.06
AS100
1
AS100
OVERALL ARCHITECTURAL SITE PLAN
SCALE: 1" = 40'-0"
AS100
OVERALL ARCHITECTURAL
SITE PLAN
NOTE:
PER SUMMIT COUNTY CODE, FLAG SIZE NOT TO EXCEED 24 SQUARE
FEET; FLAG POLES TO BE LIMITED TO ONE FLAG PER POLE.
FLAG POLES TO BE MEASURED FROM TOP OF POLE TO THE GRADE
DIRECTLY BELOW.
UPLIGHTING OF ALL FLAGS, WITH THE EXCEPTION OF THE FLAG OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, IS PROHIBITED.
7
34
8
35
9
36
PARKING LOT
PARKING LOT LANDSCAPE
SNOW STORAGE
LEGEND                                                     
10
37
w
w
e
t
fo
fo
t
fo
XXX
X
XXXXXXXXXXXX
X
X
X
X
XX
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
R/WR/WR/WR/WR/WR/WR/WR/WR/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
12'12'12'
231.7'
55'
26' 15'
18'18' 24'
34.66'
26'
26'
26'
5'
24'
5'
040'80'
SCALE: 1" = 40'
H
O
R
R
O
C
K
S
E
N
G
IN
E
E
R
S
PAINTBRUSH ROAD
JUSTICE CENTER ROAD
PROPOSED  BUILDING
ADDITION
PROPOSED CHAINLINK
SECURITY FENCE WITH
3 STRAND BARB WIRE
PDTT SERIES
SPEED GATE
PDTT SERIES
SPEED GATE
PROPOSED GRAVEL
TRAILER PARKING
PROPOSED DECORATIVE
SECURITY FENCE
PROPOSED DECORATIVE
SECURITY FENCE
www.horrocks.com
PROJECT NO. UT-8961-23
2162 West Grove Pkwy., Suite 400
Pleasant Grove, UT 84062
(801) 763-5100
PROPOSED CHAINLINK
SECURITY FENCE WITH
3 STRAND BARB WIRE
PROPOSED CHAINLINK
SECURITY FENCE WITH
3 STRAND BARB WIRE
PROPOSED ACCESS ROAD
TO PAINTBRUSH ROAD
PROPOSED ADA
PEDESTRIAN ROUTE
PROPOSED CHAINLINK
SECURITY FENCE WITH
3 STRAND BARB WIRE
N
Entrance Road and
Fencing Plan
OWNER PROJECT NO.:
GSBS PROJECT NO.:
ISSUED DATE:
REVISIONS:
GSBS
ARCHITECTS
375 WEST 200 SOUTH
SALT LAKE CITY, UT  84101
801.521.8600
801.521.7913
P
F
www.gsbsarchitects.com
C100
REV
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
CONDITIONAL USE PERMI
APPLICATION
SUMMIT COUNTY -
SO/AO
EXPANSION
BUILDING
6300 Justice Center Rd, Park City, UT 84098
2/9/24
2021.034.06
PROPOSED
MONUMENT
SIGN
PROPOSED
"STOP" SIGN
SIGHT TRIANGLE
PROPOSED STOP BAR
PROTECT WELL
HEAD IN PLACE
11
38
SD SD
SD
SD
HWM
100YR HWM 100YR HWM
100YR
HWM 100YR HWM 100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YRHWM100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWMHWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM HWM
HWM HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD LOD
LOD LOD
LOD LOD LOD
LOD LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LODLODLODLOD
LODLOD
LODLOD
LOD
LOD
LODLOD
LODLODLODLODLODLODLOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD LOD LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD LOD
LOD
LOD LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LODLOD
LODLOD
LODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLOD
LOD
LOD
LOD LOD LOD LOD
GB
>
> > > > >
SD
>
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD SD
SD
SD SD SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
> > SD
SD
SD
4'' SD
4'' SD
CO
CO
CO
4'' SD
4'' SD
CO
CO
4'' SD
SD
SD
SD
SD SD
R/WR/WR/WR/WR/WR/WR/WR/WR/WR/WR/WR/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
sdsdsdsdsd
w
ssssssssssss
w
s
s
ss
ss
ss
ss
ss
ss
ss
ss
w
w
w
w
w
w
sd
sd
ss
ss
ss
e
t
fo
fo
t
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
TBC:6500.00
TBC:6501.90 TBC:6502.14
TBC:6499.35
TBC:6500.26
TBC:6501.22
TBC:6502.88
TBC:6502.72
0.69%
1.60%
1.25%
0.70%
1.98%
1.98%
EG:(6498.78)
(6490)
(6488)
(6489)
(6491)
(6492)
(6493)
(6494) (6490)
(6488)
(6489)
(6490)
(6490)
(6489)
(6489)
(6491) (6491)
(6492)
(6490)
(6487)
(6488)
(6489)
(6491)
(6500
)
(6505
)
(6510
)
(6515
)
(6499)
(6501)
(6502)
(6503)
(6504)(6506)(6507)(6508)(6509)(6511)(6512)(6513)(6514)(6516)
FF:6497.50
TC:6497.50
TC:6497.50
TC:6497.50
1.84%
1.90%
TBC:6494.30
TBC:6494.80
TBC:6495.23
TBC:6496.05
TBC:6495.36
TBC:6494.64
TBC:6495.80
TBC:6496.34
TBC:6496.58
TBC:6497.54
TBC:6497.76
TBC:6498.07
TBC:6498.29
1.85%
1.08% 1.00%
FG:6497.00
FG:6497.00
TC:6497.50
1.48%
1.49%
1.10%
1.09%
1.26%
1.15% TC:6495.84
1.30%
2.00%
0.99%TC:6496.33FG:6497.00
6495
6496
6495
6495
6496
6497
6497
6497
TC:6496.82
TC:6496.60
TC:6497.42
TC:6497.92
TBC:6497.21
3.56%
1.99%
TBC:6499.00
TBC:6498.50
TBC:6500.31
TBC:6500.56
TBC:6500.27
TBC:6500.23
TBC:6500.08
TC:6498.85
TC:6499.17
TC:6499.52
TC:6499.43
TC:6499.34
TC:6499.95
TC:6497.50TC:6497.50
TC:6497.33
1.79%
TC:6497.92TC:6497.30
0.42% 1.85%
TBC:6495.92
TBC:6496.44
TBC:6493.97
1.96%
2.31%
TBC:6494.63
TBC:6494.99
TBC:6495.35
TBC:6495.82
TBC:6495.29
TC:6498.85
TC:6499.04
TC:6499.17
TC:6498.75
4.49%
TC:6498.71
TC:6499.10TC:6497.62
TC:6499.02
TC:6497.62
TC:6498.90
TC:6497.50
TC:6497.30
TBC:6497.51
FL:6496.80
FL:6496.10
FL:6496.10
FL:6495.90
TBC:6497.05
TBC:6496.39
TBC:6495.81
FG:6507.34
FG:6506.24
FG:6503.19
1.27%
2.00%
6510
6515
6515
6510
6505
6506
6507
6504
6505
(6505
)
(6510
)
(6515
)
(6520
)
(6525
)
(6501)(6502)(6503)(6504)
(6506)(6507)(6508)(6509)
(6511)(6512)
(6513)
(6514)
(6516)
(6517)
(6518)
(6519)
(6521)
(6522)
(6523)
(6524)
(6526)
(6500
)
(6505
)
(6497)
(6498)
(6499)
(6501)(6502)
(6503)
(6504)
(6506)
(6495
)
(6493)
(6494)
(6496)
(6497)
(6495)
(6493)
(6494)
(6496)
(6495
)
(6500
)
(6494)
(6496)
(6497)
(6498)
(6499)
(6495
)
(6493)
(6494)
(6496)
(6496)
(6496)
(6497)
(6498)
(6499)
(6496)(6497)(6498)
(6491)
(6492)
(6493)
(6494)
(6495
)
(6491)
(6492)
(6493)
(6494)
6497
6498
6497
6497
6497
2.10%
2.03%
6493
6494
6497 6496
6497
64976498
6498
3.0:1
6497
6496
2.0:1
2.1:1
FG:6504.39 2.00%
2.0:1
(6505
)
(6505
)
(6506)
(6507)
(6508)
(6509)
(6510)
(6510
)
(6505
)
(6500
)
(6499)
(6500)
(6501)
(6502)
(6504)
(6505
)
(6512)
(6511)
(6505
)
(6510
)
(6514)
(6520)
(6525
)
(6518)
(6519)
(6521)
(6522)
(6523)
(6524)
(6517)
(6516)
(6515
)
(6514)
(6490
)
(6495
)
(6500
)
(6487)
(6488)
(6489)
(6491)
(6492)
(6493)
(6494)
(6496)
(6497)
(6498)
(6499)
TBC:6500.57
TBC:6499.04 TBC:6500.12
TBC:6496.86
TBC:6497.16
TBC:6496.21
TBC:6495.44
2.42%
1.04%
1.05%
1.49%
1.19%
1.73%
1.73%
2.04%
6500
6496
6497
6498
6499
6501
6502
6496
6497
6498
6497
6498
6500
TC:6497.50
1.51%
0.99%
1.11%
1.66%
0.70%
0.69%
2.78%
2.03%
1.10%
1.24%
TC:6495.00
2.26%
1.49%
1.24%
1.36%
2.16%
1.68%
1.02%
1.49%
FL:6497.31
TC:6497.04
1.50%1.43%
1.16%
PAINTBRUSH ROAD
PROPOSED  BUILDING
ADDITION
JUSTICE CENTER ROAD
EXISTING  BUILDING
EXISTING  BUILDING
030'60'
SCALE: 1" = 30'
H
O
R
R
O
C
K
S
E
N
G
IN
E
E
R
S N
www.horrocks.com
PROJECT NO. UT-8961-23
2162 West Grove Pkwy., Suite 400
Pleasant Grove, UT 84062
(801) 763-5100
Grading Plan
OWNER PROJECT NO.:
GSBS PROJECT NO.:
ISSUED DATE:
REVISIONS:
GSBS
ARCHITECTS
375 WEST 200 SOUTH
SALT LAKE CITY, UT  84101
801.521.8600
801.521.7913
P
F
www.gsbsarchitects.com
G100
REV
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
CONDITIONAL USE PERMI
APPLICATION
SUMMIT COUNTY -
SO/AO
EXPANSION
BUILDING
6300 Justice Center Rd, Park City, UT 84098
2/9/24
2021.034.06
12
39
AE1032
AE103
3
AE1034
14'-0"
9'-0"
METAL PANEL, TYPE A
GALVANIZED STEEL GATE 
POSTS WITH GALVANIZED 
STEEL GATE FRAMES AND 
METAL PANEL TYPE A 
GATE INFILL
DUMPSTER AND RECYCLING 
BIN BY OTHERS
GALVANIZED STEEL 
STRUCTURAL COLUMNS
GALVANIZED STEEL GATE 
POSTS WITH GALVANIZED 
STEEL GATE FRAMES AND 
METAL PANEL TYPE A 
GATE INFILL
GALVANIZED STEEL 
STRUCTURAL COLUMNS
18" STONE BASE
METAL PANEL, TYPE A
STANDING SEAM METAL ROOFING
GALVANIZED STEEL 
STRUCTURAL COLUMNS
18" STONE BASE
METAL PANEL, TYPE A
STANDING SEAM METAL ROOFING
GALVANIZED STEEL 
STRUCTURAL COLUMNS
18" STONE BASE
METAL PANEL, TYPE A
STANDING SEAM METAL ROOFING
375 WEST 200 SOUTH
SALT LAKE CITY, UT  84101
801.521.8600P
www.gsbsarchitects.com
OWNER PROJECT NO.:
GSBS PROJECT NO.:
ISSUED DATE:
REVISIONS:
REV REV
2/29/24
2021.034.06
DUMPSTER ENCLOSURE
SUMMIT COUNTY -
SO/AO
EXPANSION
BUILDING
6300 Justice Center Rd, Park City, UT 84098
CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS
AE103AE103
1/8" = 1'-0"AE103
1DUMPSTER ENCLOSURE PLAN
1/8" = 1'-0"AE103
2EAST DUMPSTER ELEV.
1/8" = 1'-0"AE103
3NORTH/SOUTH DUMPSTER ELEV.
1/8" = 1'-0"AE103
4WEST DUMPSTER ELEV.
13
40
WD
DNDN
5 4 3 2 1
H
G
F
D
E
MAG
X-RAY
CYBER SECURITY
OFFICE
INV. SGT.
INV. SGT.
GYM STORAGE
WORK ROOM &
SUPPLY
WATERPOINT
DETECTIVE
COLLABORATION
PATROL
HOLDHOLD
TOILET
STOR.INTERVIEW
EQUIPMENT
SOFT INT.HARD INT.
STAIRS
LAUNDRY
SWAT AND
DRONE
IT OFFICESERVERMECHANICAL
OFFICE
JANITOR
WAITING
MAIL
ELEV
VESTIBULE
SHOWER ADA
LOCATION OF FUTURE K-9 YARD
MECHANICAL YARD
RECEPTIONELECTRICAL
BUILDING ENG.
TOILET
TOILET
LOCKERS
MAT AREA
WEIGHT & KETTLE BALL RACKS
SHOWER ADA
LOBBY
FIRE RISER
LOCATION OF FIRE WALL
EXPANSION JOINT BETWEEN THE 
NEW AND EXISTING BUILDINGS
VEST
SECURE
CORRIDOR
THIS PORTION OF THE GYM 
TO REMAIN UNFINISHED
K-9 ROOM TO REMAIN UNFINISHED
K-9 (UNFINISHED)
GYM
(UNFINISHED)
31'-0" 120'-0"
40'-0"30'-0"30'-0"30'-0"
70'-0"60'-0"
HALL
CHAD
TODD
DOUBLE DOOR
PATROL SGT.
RECORDS
REPORT/MEETING
24/7 
SUBSTANCE 
OFFICE
24/7 
SUBSTANCE 
CHECK
19'-10" 8'-8" 2'-6" 30'-0" 30'-0" 30'-0" 30'-0"
C
B
A
2.53.5
EXISTING JUSTICE CENTER LOBBY
RELEASE
PROCESSING
OFFICE
RELEASE
SALLYPORT
1" / 12"1" / 12"
375 WEST 200 SOUTH
SALT LAKE CITY, UT  84101
801.521.8600P
www.gsbsarchitects.com
OWNER PROJECT NO.:
GSBS PROJECT NO.:
ISSUED DATE:
REVISIONS:
REV REV
NOTE - THIS SHEET IS INTENDED TO 
BE VIEWED IN COLOR
2/9/24
2021.034.06
FLOOR PLAN -LEVEL
ONE -AREA A
SUMMIT COUNTY -
SO/AO
EXPANSION
BUILDING
6300 Justice Center Rd, Park City, UT 84098
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
APPLICATION
AE111AE111
1/8" = 1'-0"AE111
1FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL ONE - AREA A
14
41
DW
5 4 3 2 1
H
G
F
D
E
OPEN TO 
BELOW
COUNTY
ATTORNEY
LAWYER
LAWYER
LAWYER
LAWYER
VICTIM
ASSISTANCE
CHIEF
PROSECUTER
INVEST.
WEST CORRIDOR
WAITING
INVEST.
CONFERENCE
ROOM
RECEPTION &
PARALEGAL
SHARED BREAK
ROOM
DATA
ELECTRICAL
CONFERENCE
TOILET
TOILETTOILET
TOILET
OFFICE - FUTURE OFFICE - FUTURE OFFICE - FUTUREOFFICE - ASHLEY COUNTY SHERIFF
OFFICE - FUTURE
OFFICE - JUSTIN
OFFICE - FUTURE
OFFICE - JEREMY
OFFICE - FUTURE
CHIEF DEPUTY
CAPTAIN KEN
CAPTAIN -
FUTURE
OFFICE - FUTURE
CONFERENCE
ADMIN SUPPORT
SUPERVISOR -
SHAY
STORAGE
WAR ROOM
JANITOR
LOBBY
VICTIM
ASSISTANCE
LAWYER
MAGNETIC/ 
WRITEABLE  
WALLS
AV SCREEN WALL
FUTURE 
PARALEGAL
FUTURE 
PARALEGAL
LACTATION
85 SF
TOILET
9'-9 11/64"
141 SF
OFFICE
ADMIN STATION
5'-0" TYP.
30'-0" 30'-0" 30'-0" 30'-0"
40'-0"30'-0"30'-0"30'-0"
130'-0"
120'-0"
ROOF BELOW
375 WEST 200 SOUTH
SALT LAKE CITY, UT  84101
801.521.8600P
www.gsbsarchitects.com
OWNER PROJECT NO.:
GSBS PROJECT NO.:
ISSUED DATE:
REVISIONS:
REV REV
NOTE - THIS SHEET IS INTENDED TO 
BE VIEWED IN COLOR
2/9/24
2021.034.06
FLOOR PLAN -LEVEL
TWO -AREA A
SUMMIT COUNTY -
SO/AO
EXPANSION
BUILDING
6300 Justice Center Rd, Park City, UT 84098
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
APPLICATION
AE112AE112
1/8" = 1'-0"AE112
1FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL TWO - AREA A
15
42
WD
DW
RIDGE
RIDGE
VALLEY
SINGLE-PLY ROOFING / RIGID
INSULATION (R-30 MIN) /
ROOF AIR BARRIER / ROOF
DECK , RE: STRUCTURAL
ROOF HATCH
1/4" / 12"
1/4" / 12"
1/4" / 12"
1/4" / 12" 1/4" / 12"
1/4" / 12"
1/4" / 12"
1/4" / 12"
MECHANICAL YARD
K-9 AREA (CONCRETE PAD 
PART OF CURRENT PROJECT)
1/4" / 12"
1/4" / 12"1/4" / 12"
1/4" / 12"
1/4" / 12"
1/4" / 12"
EXISTING JUSTICE CENTER ROOF
SINGLE-PLY ROOFING / RIGID
INSULATION (R-30 MIN) /
ROOF AIR BARRIER / ROOF
DECK , RE: STRUCTURAL
375 WEST 200 SOUTH
SALT LAKE CITY, UT  84101
801.521.8600P
www.gsbsarchitects.com
OWNER PROJECT NO.:
GSBS PROJECT NO.:
ISSUED DATE:
REVISIONS:
REV REV
2/9/24
2021.034.06
ROOF PLAN
SUMMIT COUNTY -
SO/AO
EXPANSION
BUILDING
6300 Justice Center Rd, Park City, UT 84098
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
APPLICATION
AE140AE140
1/8" = 1'-0"AE140
1ROOF PLAN
16
43
LEVEL 1
100' -0"
T.O. STONE
120' -0"
T.O. PARAPET
129' -8"
METAL PANEL, TYPE B
STONE VENEER WITH STONE
CAP AND STONE BASE
SUNSHADE SYSTEM, TYP.
LIGHTING AS SCHEDULED, RE:
ELECTRICAL
PREFINISHED METAL PARAPET
CAP
METAL PANEL, TYPE A
LEVEL 1
100' -0"
T.O. STONE
120' -0"
T.O. PARAPET
129' -8"
LINE OF EXISTING TOPOGRAPHY
SUNSHADE SYSTEM, TYP.
STONE VENEER WITH STONE
CAP AND STONE BASE
METAL PANEL, TYPE B
LIGHTING AS SCHEDULED, RE:
ELECTRICAL
METAL PANEL, TYPE A
(AROUND MECHANICAL YARD)
PREFINISHED METAL PARAPET
CAP
METAL PANEL, TYPE A
LOUVER AS SCHEDULED, TYP.,
RE: MECHANICAL
STOREFRONT SPANDREL AS
SCHEDULED
METAL PANEL, TYPE A
STOREFRONT SPANDREL AS
SCHEDULED
LEVEL 1
100' -0"
T.O. STONE
120' -0"
T.O. PARAPET
129' -8"
LINE OF EXISTING TOPOGRAPHY
STOREFRONT AS SCHEDULED
METAL PANEL, TYPE B
STONE VENEER WITH STONE
CAP AND STONE BASE
SUNSHADE SYSTEM, TYP.
LIGHTING AS SCHEDULED, RE:
ELECTRICAL
CURTAINWALL AS SCHEDULED
PREFINISHED METAL PARAPET
CAP
LOUVER AS SCHEDULED, RE:
MECHANICAL
METAL PANEL, TYPE A
LEVEL 1
100' -0"
LEVEL 2
114' -0"
T.O. STONE
120' -0"
T.O. PARAPET
129' -8"
NEW EIFS INFILL WALL, 
MATCH EXISTING
EXISTING JUSTICE CENTER
MECHANICAL 
YARD FENCE
LINE OF EXISTING TOPOGRAPHY
31'-8"
T.O EXISTING BLDG
136' -8 5/8"
METAL PANEL, TYPE AMETAL PANEL, TYPE AMETAL PANEL, TYPE A
CURTAINWALL AS SCHEDULED STONE VENEER WITH STONE
CAP AND STONE BASE METAL PANEL, TYPE AMETAL PANEL, TYPE B
LIGHTING AS SCHEDULED,
RE: ELECTRICAL
SUNSHADE SYSTEM, TYP. PREFINISHED METAL PARAPET
CAP
LOUVER AS SCHEDULED, RE:
MECHANICAL
EXIST. LEVEL 1
101' -7 1/4"
MATCH EXISTING STONE BASE
T.O EXISTING BLDG
136' -8 5/8"
NEW EIFS INFILL WALL, 
MATCH EXISTING
EXIST. LEVEL 1
101' -7 1/4"
STOREFRONT AS SCHEDULED
LEVEL 1
100' -0"
T.O EXISTING BLDG
136' -8 5/8"
NEW EIFS INFILL WALL, 
MATCH EXISTING
EXIST. LEVEL 1
101' -7 1/4"
STOREFRONT AS SCHEDULED
375 WEST 200 SOUTH
SALT LAKE CITY, UT  84101
801.521.8600P
www.gsbsarchitects.com
OWNER PROJECT NO.:
GSBS PROJECT NO.:
ISSUED DATE:
REVISIONS:
REV REV
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
2/29/24
2021.034.06
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS
SUMMIT COUNTY -
SO/AO
EXPANSION
BUILDING
6300 Justice Center Rd, Park City, UT 84098
DESIGN DEVELOPMENT
AE201AE201
0'
GRAPHIC SCALE
4' 8'12' 16'24'
0'
GRAPHIC SCALE
4' 8' 12' 16'24'
0'
GRAPHIC SCALE
4' 8' 12' 16'24'
0'
GRAPHIC SCALE
4' 8' 12' 16'24' 1/8" = 1'-0"AE201
4NORTH ELEVATION
1/8" = 1'-0"AE201
3EAST ELEVATION
1/8" = 1'-0"AE201
2SOUTH ELEVATION
1/8" = 1'-0"AE201
1WEST ELEVATION
1/8" = 1'-0"AE201
5EAST ELEVATION EXISTING
0'
GRAPHIC SCALE
4' 8' 12' 16'24'
1/8" = 1'-0"AE201
6NORTH ELEVATION EXISTING
0'
GRAPHIC SCALE
4' 8' 12' 16'24'
17
44
LOBBY
STORAGE
HARD INT.
TOILET TOILETDATA
SHARED BREAK
ROOM
LOCKERSGYM
(UNFINISHED) 101 SF
HOLD
123
LOBBY
CONFERENCE
PATROL
VICTIM
ASSISTANCE
PATROL SGT. HOLD HOLD STAIRS TOILET LAUNDRY
SWAT AND
DRONE
INVEST. INVEST. JANITOR TOILET TOILET
STAIR CENTRAL
L2 OFFICE - JUSTINCORRIDOR
K-9 (UNFINISHED) SHOWER ADA SHOWER ADA LOCKERS GYM GYM STORAGE WEST CORRIDOR COLLABORATION
COUNTY SHERIFF OFFICE - ASHLEY OFFICE - FUTURE OFFICE - FUTURE OFFICE - FUTURE LACTATION CONFERENCE WAR ROOM LAWYER
SECURE
CORRIDOR LOBBY WAITING IT OFFICE TOILET MAIL HALL SHOWER ADA
OFFICE - FUTURE
ADMIN SUPPORT
SUPERVISOR -
SHAY
CONFERENCE ADMIN STATIONCAPTAIN -
FUTURE
375 WEST 200 SOUTH
SALT LAKE CITY, UT  84101
801.521.8600P
www.gsbsarchitects.com
OWNER PROJECT NO.:
GSBS PROJECT NO.:
ISSUED DATE:
REVISIONS:
REV REV
2/9/24
2021.034.06
BUILDING SECTIONS
SUMMIT COUNTY -
SO/AO
EXPANSION
BUILDING
6300 Justice Center Rd, Park City, UT 84098
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
APPLICATION
AE300AE300
1/8" = 1'-0"AE300
2BUILDING SECTION - NS 2
1/8" = 1'-0"AE300
3BUILDING SECTION - EW
1/8" = 1'-0"AE300
4BUILDING SECTION - EW 2
1/8" = 1'-0"AE300
1BUILDING SECTION - NS
18
45
375 WEST 200 SOUTH
P  801.541.8600
REVISIONS:
1 4/8/2024
REV
4/8/24
2021.034.06
EXTERIOR SIGNAGE
1
SO/AO
BUILDING
County Attorney & 
Sheriﬀ’s Oﬃce
County Jail & 
Juvenile Court
24/7 Substance Check
3’ TALL, 1’6” WIDE 
MONUMENT BASE:
STONE VENEER TO MATCH
BUILDING EXTERIOR
10” DEEP ALUMINUM FABRICATED BOX. 
EXTERIOR GRADE PAINT--MATHEWS 
PAINT OR EQUIVELANT. COLOR: DARK 
BRONZE. SATIN FINISH.
10” DEEP ALUMINUM 
FABRICATED BOX. 
PAINTED DARK BRONZE.
5-3/4” HEIGHT 2” DEEP FABRICATED ALUMINUM 
LETTERS. STUD MOUNTED TO THE BOX BEHIND 
WITH 1” GAP. BRUSHED ALUMINUM FINISH ON ALL 
SURFACE. INTERNALLY LIT WITH LED LIGHTS.  
CONSEAL ALL ELECTRICAL WIRES AND EQUIPMENT 
IN THE BOX BEHIND. 
TYPE A - SIDE VIEW
3’ TALL, 8’-10” WIDE MONUMENT BASE:
STONE VENEER TO MATCHBUILDING EXTERIOR
GREY STONE VENEER CAP
SEE LANDSCAPE AND PLANTING PLAN 
FOR SIGNAGE SURROUNDING AREA.
1’6” TALL, 5’6” WIDE 
MONUMENT BASE:
STONE VENEER TO MATCH
BUILDING EXTERIOR
4” DEEP ALUMINUM 
FABRICATED BOX. 
PAINTED DARK BRONZE.
TYPE B - SIDE VIEW
4”
3’10”
GREY STONE VENEER CAP
1’6”
2’
2”
1’6” TALL, 2’ WIDE 
MONUMENT BASE:
STONE VENEER TO MATCH
BUILDING EXTERIOR
4” DEEP ALUMINUM 
FABRICATED BOX. 
PAINTED DARK BRONZE.
LED LIGHTING EMBEDDED 
AROUND THE FRAME 
EDGES.
C1 - SIDE VIEW
4”
5’4”
GREY STONE VENEER CAP
1’6”
2’
2”
 9” TALL, 1’4” WIDE 
MONUMENT BASE:
STONE VENEER TO MATCH
BUILDING EXTERIOR
4” DEEP ALUMINUM 
FABRICATED BOX. 
PAINTED DARK BRONZE.
C2 - SIDE VIEW
4”
2’
GREY STONE VENEER CAP
9”
1’4”
2”
4” HEIGHT 2“ DEEP ALUMINUM LETTER. 
PIN MOUNTED TO THE BOX SURFACE. 
2”STAND OFF BETWEEN THE LETTERS 
AND THE BOX SURFACE.
FINISH: BRUSHED ALUMINUM.
MONUMENT BASE: 1’6” TALL, 5’4” WIDE
STONE VENEER TO MATCH BUILDING 
EXTERIOR
2” HEIGHT GREY STONE VENEER CAP
4” DEEP ALUMINUM FABRICATED BOX. 
EXTERIOR GRADE PAINT--MATHEWS 
PAINT OR EQUIVELANT. COLOR: DARK 
BRONZE. SATIN FINISH.
4” HEIGHT 1/4” DEEP CUTOUT SOLID 
ALUMINUM LETTERS.  STUD MOUNTED 
TO THE BOX BEHIND WITH 1” GAP. 
BRUSHED ALUMINUM FINISH ON ALL 
SURFACE. INTERNALLY LIT WITH LED 
LIGHTS.  CONSEAL ALL ELECTRICAL 
WIRES AND EQUIPMENT IN THE BOX 
BEHIND. 
SEE LANDSCAPE AND PLANTING 
PLAN FOR SIGNAGE 
SURROUNDING AREA.X
MONUMENT BASE: 1’6” TALL, 5’4” WIDE
STONE VENEER TO MATCH BUILDING 
EXTERIOR
2” HEIGHT GREY STONE VENEER CAP
1/4” THICK, 2-1/4” HEIGHT BRUSHED 
ALUMINUM LETTERS. PIN MOUNTED 
FLUSH TO THE BACKING PANEL WITH 
STUDS. 
POWDER COATED GRAPHIC PANEL. 
ALTO OR DIRECT EMBED FULL COLOR 
PRINTED GRAPHIC PANEL.  
CALENDER VINYL LETTERS 
CUT/WEEDED. 
MONUMENT BASE: 1’6” TALL, 5’4” WIDE
STONE VENEER TO MATCH BUILDING 
EXTERIOR
2” HEIGHT GREY STONE VENEER CAP
CALENDER VINYL LETTERS 
CUT/WEEDED. 
4” DEEP ALUMINUM FABRICATED BOX. 
EXTERIOR GRADE PAINT--MATHEWS 
PAINT OR EQUIVELANT. COLOR: DARK 
BRONZE. SATIN FINISH.1/2” FRAMING ON 
SIDES AND THE TOP OF 
THE BACKING 
PANEL/BOX. EMBED 
LED STRIP LIGHTS 
ALONG THE FRAME. 4” DEEP ALUMINUM FABRICATED BOX. 
EXTERIOR GRADE PAINT--MATHEWS 
PAINT OR EQUIVELANT. COLOR: DARK 
BRONZE. SATIN FINISH.
1/2” FRAMING ON 
SIDES AND THE TOP OF 
THE BACKING 
PANEL/BOX. EMBED 
LED STRIP LIGHTS 
ALONG THE FRAME.
DISTRICT COURTHOUSE
COUNTY ATTORNEY
& SHERIFF’S OFFICE
COUNTY JAIL /
THIRD DISTRICT JUVENILE COURT
SUMMIT COUNTY
JUSTICE CENTER
6300 JUSTICE CENTER ROAD
EXTERIOR SIGN TYPE 
LEGEND:
MONUMENT SIGNAGE & BUILDING EXTERIOR SIGNAGE
ENLARGED SITE PLAN - EXTERIOR SIGNAGE LOCATIONS
PAINTED BRUSH ROAD
NOT TO SCALE 
SIGN TYPE A - LARGE EXTERIOR MONUMENT - DOUBLE SIDED
NOT TO SCALE
SIGN TYPE B - SMALL EXTERIOR MONUMENT - SINGLE SIDED
NOT TO SCALE
SIGN TYPE C - EXTERIOR WAYFINIDNG SIGN
C1
C2
NOT TO SCALE  |  SINGLE SIDED SIGNAGE
SIGN TYPE A
SIGN TYPE B
SIGN TYPE C
LARGE EXTERIOR MONUMENT
SMALL EXTERIOR MONUMENT
WAYFINDING SIGNAGE
A1
A
B1
B
C
2” HEIGHT GREY STONE VENEER CAP
+ DISPLAY LETTERS
▪ FABRICATED ALUMINUM CHANNEL LETTERS
▪ INTERNALLY LIT(BACK LIT) WITH LED LIGHTS
▪ 5-3/4” HEIGHT, 2” DEPTH 
▪ FONT: GOTHAM BOLD 
▪ BRUSHED ALUMINUM SURFACE AND SIDES 
▪ LETTERS MOUNTED TO THE BACK PANEL WITH 2”GAP/STAND OFF
+ ADDRESS LETTERS
▪ FABRICATED ALUMINUM CHANNEL LETTERS
▪ INTERNALLY LIT(BACK LIT) WITH LED LIGHTS
▪ 4“ HEIGHT, 2” THICKNESS 
▪ FONT: GOTHAM NARROW BOLD  
▪ BRUSHED ALUMINUM SURFACE AND SIDES 
▪ LETTERS MOUNTED TO THE BACK PANEL WITH 
2”GAP/STAND OFF
C1
C2
5'-0"
5'-4"
5'-6"
3'-10"
4"
2"1'-6"
2"
3'-6"
2"
1'-6"
3'-6"
2"9"
3'-4"
5'-6"
3'-4"
2 1/4"
2" 3"
2'-1"
3'-0"
7'-8"
5 3/4"
8'-4"
2"
3'-3"
6"6"
6" 6"
2"
10"
1'-6"
3'-0"
3'-0"
2'-0"
1
1
19
46
e
t
e
t
fo
fo
EV
EV
EV
EV
VAN
VAN
VAN
VAN
e
E E
B1
B1
B1
B1
B1SB1
SB1
SB1
B1
B1
B1
B1
B1
B1
B1
W1
W1
W1
FP1
UTILITY TRANSFORMER
METER AND MAIN SERVICE DISCONNECT
GEN DIST PANEL
GEN QUICK CONNECT PANEL
GENERATOR
A1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1 W1
UTILITY TRANSFORMER (E)
A1
B1
B1
B1 A1A1
A2 A2
A1
A2 A2 A2
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
A1
A1
A1
A1
A1 A1 A1
A1
A1
A1
A1
A1
A1
A2
A1
A1
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLEUPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1W1
W1
W1
W1
UPGRADED WALL MOUNTED LIGHT
UPGRADED WALL MOUNTED LIGHT
UPGRADED WALL MOUNTED LIGHT
UPGRADED WALL MOUNTED LIGHT
UPGRADED WALL 
MOUNTED LIGHT
UPGRADED WALL MOUNTED LIGHT
UPGRADED WALL MOUNTED LIGHT
UPGRADED WALL MOUNTED LIGHT
UPGRADED WALL MOUNTED LIGHT
UPGRADED WALL MOUNTED LIGHT
W1
W1
W1
UPGRADED WALL MOUNTED LIGHT
UPGRADED WALL MOUNTED LIGHT
UPGRADED WALL MOUNTED LIGHT
UPGRADED WALL MOUNTED LIGHT
W1
W1
UPGRADED WALL MOUNTED LIGHT
240 E. MORRIS AVE. SUITE 200
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84115
P (801) 534-1130
F (801) 534-1080
www.envisioneng.com
375 WEST 200 SOUTH
SALT LAKE CITY, UT  84101
801.521.8600
801.521.791
P
F
www.gsbsarchitects.com
OWNER PROJECT NO.:
GSBS PROJECT NO.:
ISSUED DATE:
REVISIONS:
REV REV
2/29/24
2021.034.06
SITE PLAN - LIGHTING
SUMMIT COUNTY -
SO/AO
EXPANSION
BUILDING
6300 Justice Center Rd, Park City, UT 84098
DESIGN DEVELOPMENT
ES101ES101
SCALE: 1" = 30'-0"
SITE PLAN -ELECTRICAL1
SITE GENERAL NOTES:
1. PROVIDE ALL REQUIRED BACKFILLING, ETC. FOR ALL CONDUITS, 
PROVIDE REQUIRED BACKFILL MATERIAL AS DIRECTED BY EACH 
UTILITY.
2. COORDINATE ALL LOCATIONS AND ROUTING WORK IN THE FIELD.
3. ROUTE CONDUITS A MINIMUM OF 2' BELOW THE BUILDING FLOOR SLAB.
4. MINIMUM CONDUIT FOR SITE WORK SHALL BE 1".
5. CONDUIT ROUTING SHOWN IS SCHEMATIC AND FOR CLARIFICATION 
COORDINATE LOCATION WITH ALL AFFECTED TRADES.
6. PROVIDE A MINIMUM OF 12" SEPARATION BETWEEN POWER AND 
COMMUNICATION CONDUITS.
7. ALL CONDUITS THAT EXTEND THROUGH CONCRETE SHALL BE 
GALVANIZED RIGID CONDUIT AND WRAPPED WITH TWO (2) LAYERS OF 
PVC TAPE.
8. ALL ELBOWS THAT ARE UNDER THE FINISHED GRADE SHALL BE 
GALVANIZED RIGID CONDUIT AND WRAPPED WITH TWO (2) LAYERS OF 
PVC TAPE.
LIGHT FIXTURE SCHEDULE - EXTERIOR LIGHTING
TYPE DESCRIPTION SOURCE
ELECTRICAL APPROVED
MANUFACTURERS
CATALOG INFORMATION
CATALOG NUMBER / SERIES COMMENTS / NOTESVOLTAGE LOAD
A1 SINGLE HEAD LED AREA LIGHT WITH TYPE 3
DISTRIBUTION
FULL CUTOFF AND INTEGRATED MOTION SENSOR
POLE: 12' SQUARE POLE
LED
2106 LUMENS
3000K
120 V 18 NLS LIGHTING (OR APPROVED
EQUAL)
NV1-1-16L-35-30K
A2 DOUBLE HEAD LED AREA LIGHT WITH TYPE 3
DISTRIBUTION
FULL CUTOFF AND INTEGRATED MOTION SENSOR
LED
2106 LUMENS
3000K
120 V 36 NLS LIGHTING (OR APPROVED
EQUAL)
NV1-1-16L-35-30K
B1 3' LED SQUARE BOLLARD
WITH FULL CUTOFF
LED
470 LUMENS
3000K
120 V 8 LANDSCAPE FORMS (OR
APPROVED EQUAL)
BW101 T4 30K UV1 * - ARCHITECT TO SELECT STANDARD
COLOR FINISH
FP1 POLE TOP MOUNTED FLAGPOLE DOWNLIGHT WITH
REMOTE LED DRIVER AND FULL CUTOFF
LED
1000 LUMENS
3000K
120 V 13 EAGLE MOUNTAIN FLAG AND
FLAGPOLE
SG 3K IHR BRZ M BRZ100
SB1 LED ROUND SECURITY RATED LIGHTED BOLLARDS
FULL CUTOFF
LED
995 LUMENS
3000K
120 V 41 LIGMAN (OR APPROVED EQUAL) UCO-10127 41WCOB 1 W30 * A13591 * - ARCHITECT TO SELECT STANDARD
COLOR FINISH
W1 WALL MOUNTED LED AREA LIGHT WITH TYPE 3
DISTRIBUTION
FULL CUTOFF
LED
1944 LUMENS
3000K
120 V 18 NLS LIGHTING (OR APPROVED
EQUAL)
TWA-16L-35-30K WALL MOUNTED LIGHTS SHALL BE
INSTALLED NO MORE THAN 12' ABOVE
GROUND
20
47
W1 W1 W1
12' - 0"
W1 W1 W1 W1
D4
12' - 0"
12' - 0"
12' - 0"
W1
W1
W1 W1 W1 W1 W1 W1
W1 W1
12' - 0"
W1W1W1
W1 W1
D4 D4
240 E. MORRIS AVE. SUITE 200
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84115
P (801) 534-1130
F (801) 534-1080
www.envisioneng.com
375 WEST 200 SOUTH
SALT LAKE CITY, UT  84101
801.521.8600
801.521.791
P
F
www.gsbsarchitects.com
OWNER PROJECT NO.:
GSBS PROJECT NO.:
ISSUED DATE:
REVISIONS:
REV REV
2/29/24
2021.034.06
ELEVATION VIEWS
SUMMIT COUNTY -
SO/AO
EXPANSION
BUILDING
6300 Justice Center Rd, Park City, UT 84098
DESIGN DEVELOPMENT
EL401EL401
SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"
NORTH ELEVATION VIEW 11
SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"
NORTH ELEVATION VIEW 22
SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"
WEST ELEVATION VIEW3
SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"
EAST ELEVATION VIEW4
SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"
SOUTH ELEVATION VIEW5
21
48
2'-6"
5'-9" MIN
2'-6"
12'-0"
  37' MIN FROM
PROPERTY LINE
TRANSFORMER PADVAULT DIMENSION CHART (2.4-25 KV)
TRANSFORMER
RATING
75-750 KVA
1000-2500 KVA
DIMENSIONS
B SI #C D EA
56" 48" 44" 42" 56" 7992600
84" 54" 72" 48" 62" 7992958
COORDINATE ALL REQUIREMENTS WITH
RMP.  REFER TO RMP PUBLICATION ZG-521
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
3'-0"
3'-0" 3'-0"
3'-0"
PAD
BLOCKOUT
KEEP THIS AREA CLEARKEEP THIS AREA CLEAR
10'-0"
10'-0" 10'-0"
10'-0" RADIUS
NOTE: TRANSFORMER PAD CLEARANCES
• TRANSFORMERS IN EQUIPMENT YARDS MUST MEET ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS. 
• SEE RMP ESR WHITEPAPER FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
STAINLESS STEEL BOLT
STAINLESS STEEL 
HOLD DOWN CLEAT STAINLESS STEEL 
BELLWILLE WASHER
HOLD DOWN CLEAT DETAIL
1 1/4" X 2 1/2" STAINLESS STEEL HOLD-DOWN CLEAT - 2 REQ'D.
3/8" X 1 1/4" STAINLESS STEEL BOLT - 2 REQ'D.
3/8" STAINLESS STEEL BELLVILLE WASHER - 2 REQ'D.
12" DIA. HDPE SUMP
A
84"
1/2" DIA. GROUNDING INSERTS
4 EA. REQ'D.
(2 EA. OUTSIDE WALLS
2 EA. INSIDE WALLS)
2.38" DIA. TERM-A-DUCTS
2 EA. REQ'D.
(1 EA. NEAR WALL
1 EA. FAR WALL)
5.57" DIA. TERM-A-DUCTS
8 EA. REQ'D.
(4 EA. NEAR WALL
4 EA. FAR WALL)
D
B
C
5'-8" LONG GALV. "C" CHANNEL 
2 EA. REQ'D. 
(1 EA. NEAR & FAR WALLS)
72"
BASE
8,081 LBS.
4.5" DIA. TERM-A-DUCTS
14 EA. REQ'D.
(7 EA. NEAR WALL
7 EA. FAR WALL)
GALV. PULL IRON
4 EA. REQ'D.
(1 EA. CORNER)
2'-0" LONG GALV. "C" CHANNEL
4 EA. REQ'D.
(1 EA. WALL)
3.51" DIA. TERM-A-DUCT
1 EA. REQ'D.
FULL 180° OPEN 
(TYPICAL) 
TOP
PCORP #7992600 - SI #1790023
3,650 LBS.
112"
3/8" DIA. INSERTS W/
HOLD DOWN CLEATS
2 EA. REQ'D. 
(SEE DETAIL 1)
16" X 60" BLOCKOUT
NO. 25P GALV. DIAMOND PLATE 
DOORS W/ LOCKING BOLTS
84"
8"
E
NOTES:
1. COORDINATE ALL REQUIREMENTS WITH ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER PRIOR 
TO INSTALLATION.  REFER TO ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER DOCUMENTS GV 
001 AND ZG 301 FOR GENERAL INFORMATION REGARDING EQUIPMENT 
BASES AND INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
2. REBAR REFER TO ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER MATERIAL SPECIFICATION 
ZG 531 FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON PRE-CAST PAD VAULTS.
3'-0"3'-0"
WINDOW
10'-0"
KEEP THIS 
AREA 
CLEAR
NO PAD IN 
THIS AREA
10'-0" 10'-0"
DOOR
20'-0"
PROVIDE IN-LINE WATERPROOF
FUSE HOLDER WITH BREAKAWAY 
CONNECTIONS AND FUSE
BASE PLATE AND ANCHOR BOLTS
BY LIGHT POLE MANUFACTURER
3/4" CHAMFER
A A
2'-0"
#3 TIES AT 6" O.C.
ANCHOR BOLT
HAND RUB FINISHED
(3) TIES IN TOP 6" OF PIER
DOUBLE NUT LEVELING SYSTEM
GROUT ENTIRE AREA UNDER
PLATE PROVIDE A MINIMUM ONE 
WEAP HOLE PER SIDE
GROUND LUG WITH #8 AWG
SOLID CU TO REBAR IN FOOTING
GRC ELBOW (TYP.)
GROUND LUG
PVC SCH 40 CONDUIT
SEE DRAWINGS FOR SIZE
(8) #5 VERTICAL BARS
2'-6"
DEPTH
24" MIN.
EXTERIOR SLAB
OR GRADE
CAP SPARE
CONDUIT AT EACH
DEAD END POLE
6"
A
24"
24"24"
8"W X 3"D CONCRETE MOW STRIP AS
REQUIRED FOR PLANTING AREAS
EDGE OF SIDEWALK OR
BACK OF CURB
CONNECT GROUND TO POLE BASE WITH 
BURNDY #GB4C ENSURE THAT ALL METAL 
PARTS INCLUDING FIXTURE, POLE AND POLE 
BASE ARE BONDED TOGETHER PER NEC 
USING #8 AWG SOLID CU MINIMUM.
NOTE: DESIGN SHOWN FOR CONCRETE POLE BASE IS SHOW 
FOR INFORMATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY TO CONVEY THE 
NECESSARY REQUIREMENTS. CONTRACTOR SHALL BE 
REQUIRED TO PROVIDE A POLE BASE DESIGN AND ASSOCIATED 
STRUCTURAL CALCULATIONS AND SUBMIT THEM AS A 
DEFERRED SUBMITTAL FOR REVIEW. THE DESIGN SHALL BE 
STAMPED BY A STRUCTURAL ENGINEER LICENSED IN THE 
STATE OF UTAH, AND SHALL BE BASED UPON THE ACTUAL
POLES, FIXTURES, SOIL CONDITIONS, WIND SPEED, ETC.NEAR SIDEWALK 
(PLANTING AREAS)
PLANTING AREA
NEAR SIDEWALK 
(HARDSCAPE AREAS)
NEAR BICYCLE PATH 
(PLANTING AREAS)
NEAR BICYCLE PATH 
(HARDSCAPE AREAS)
PARKING LOT (INTERIOR TO 
LOT OR WITHIN 24" OF BACK 
OF PARKING LOT CURB)
ROADWAY
LIGHT POLE MOW STRIP AND CONCRETE BASE REQUIREMENTS
MOW STRIP 
REQUIRED 
(6"W X3"D)
YES
YES
NO
NO
NO
NO
NO
BASE HEIGHT 
ABOVE GRADE 
(INCHES) 
12
12
12
12
12
30
12
DISTANCE FROM SIDEWALK 
BICYCLE PATH, OR BACK OF 
CURB "A" (INCHES)
PAINTED 
YELLOW
N/A
6
6
18
18
24
12
NO
NO
NO
NO
NO
YES
NO
CONCRETE
POLE BASE
EXTERIOR SLAB
OR GRADE
SECTION A-A
DESIGN CRITERIA:
2018 IBC
Ss = 2.0, SOIL SITE CLASS D
LATERAL SOIL BRG = 100 PS/FT
ASSUMED 4.0 FT2 AT TOP POLE
POLE
HEIGHT
FTG
DEPTH
FTG
DEPTH
V ult =
115 MPH
V ult =
150 MPH
8'-0" 4'-0" 4'-0"
12'-0" 4'-0" 5'-0"
20'-0" 5'-0" 6'-0"
30'-0" 6'-0" 7'-0"
40'-0" 6'-0" 8'-0"
60'-0" ? ?
MOW 
STRIP
MOW 
STRIP
T8
T5
T2
T7
T4
T3
12" MIN.
24" MIN. 48" MAX.
T1
T5
T2
T7
T4
T3
12" MIN.
24" MIN.
T8
TRENCHING GENERAL NOTES: TRENCHING KEYED NOTES:
1. PROVIDE PULL 1/4" NYLON ROPES IN ALL CONDUITS.
2. IN JOINT USE TRENCHES, HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL 
SEPARATION BETWEEN CONDUIT SHALL BE 
MAINTAINED BY INSTALLING HIGH IMPACT SPACERS 
WITH HORIZONTAL INTERVALS OF EIGHT FEET.
3. ALL MARKER TAPE SHALL CONTAIN #10 TRACER WIRE.
4. VERIFY ALL REQUIREMENTS WITH NV ENERGY PRIOR 
TO TRENCHING.
1. MARKER TAPE WITH TRACER WIRE LABELED, "CAUTION 
BURIED ELECTRIC CONDUITS BELOW" DIRECTLY OVER 
POWER CONDUITS 6" MINIMUM BELOW GRADE.
2. CLEAN BACKFILL CONTAINING NO ROCKS LARGER 
THAN 4" DIA.
3. BACKFILL MATERIAL WITHIN 4" TO 6" OF CONDUIT SHALL 
PASS THROUGH A 3/4" SLEVE FRAME OR SAND 
WITHOUT ANY SHARP OR FOREIGN OBJECTS.
4. ALL CONDUITS SHOWN SHALL BE SCHEDULE 40 PVC; 
SEE ES101 AND ONE-LINE DIAGRAMS FOR SIZES.
5. UNDISTURBED EARTH.
6. MARKER TAPE WITH TRACER WIRE LABELED, "CAUTION 
BURIED DATA/COMMUNICATION CONDUIT BELOW" 
DIRECTLY OVER DATA/COMMUNICATION CONDUITS.
7. TRENCHES SHALL BE A UNIFORM DEPTH FOR ENTIRE 
LENGTH OF TRENCH SO CONDUITS CAN SIT FLAT 
(HORIZONTAL) WITH THE GROUND.
8. FINISHED GRADE.
240 E. MORRIS AVE. SUITE 200
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84115
P (801) 534-1130
F (801) 534-1080
www.envisioneng.com
375 WEST 200 SOUTH
SALT LAKE CITY, UT  84101
801.521.8600
801.521.791
P
F
www.gsbsarchitects.com
OWNER PROJECT NO.:
GSBS PROJECT NO.:
ISSUED DATE:
REVISIONS:
REV REV
2/29/24
2021.034.06
SITE DETAILS
SUMMIT COUNTY -
SO/AO
EXPANSION
BUILDING
6300 Justice Center Rd, Park City, UT 84098
DESIGN DEVELOPMENT
EG504EG504
SCALE: NTS
ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER TRANSFORMER PAD VAULT1SCALE: NTS
POLE BASE DETAIL2
SCALE: NTS
TRENCHING DETAIL - RMP CONDUITS3SCALE: NTS
TRENCHING DETAIL -SITE LIGHTING AND POWER BRANCH CIRCUITS4
SCALE: NTS
TRENCHING DETAIL -NOTES5 SCALE: NTS
POLE ELEVATION DETAIL6
22
49
12'-0"
W1
12'-0"
W1
12'-0"
W1
12'-0"
W1
W1
12'-0"
W1
12'-0"
W1
12'-0"
W1
12'-0"
W1
12'-0"
W1
12'-0"
W1
10'-1 1/2"
W1
10'-1 1/2"
W1
2 LIGHT FIXTURES LOCATED
HERE IN LINE WITH EACH OTHER
12'-0"
W1
12'-0"
23
50
W1
12'-0"
W1
W1
12'-0"
3 LIGHT FIXTURES LOCATED
HERE IN LINE WITH EACH OTHER
3 LIGHT FIXTURES LOCATED
HERE IN LINE WITH EACH OTHER
24
51
Project Name:
FORM AND FUNCTION
• Sleek, low pr ofile housing
•
 Spec grade per
formance
•
 Engineer
ed for optimum thermal management
•
 Low depr
eciation rate 
•
 Reduces ener
gy consumption and costs up to 65%
•
 Ex
ceeds IES foot candle levels utilizing the least number 
of poles and fixtures per project 
•
 Optical system designed for:
- P
arking Lots 
- Auto Dealerships 
- General Area Lighting
Type:
NV
Size 1
(NV-1)
Cat # Kelvin
3000K
(30K)
           
4000K
(40K)
5000K
(50K)
Volts
120-277
(UNV) 
347-480
(HV)
Mounting
Direct Pole
Single, D180
3" (DPS3)
D90, T90, T120, QD
7" (DPS7)
Knuckle Mount (KM)
Wall Mount (WM)
Trunnion Mount (TM)
*Standard finish is stainless steel. 
Can be painted to match fixture
Tennis Arm (TA)
*See next page for Arm Configurations
*For Round Pole, please specify RPA4 
or RPA5
Color
Bronze
(BRZ)
White
(WHT)
Silver
(SVR)
Black
(BLK)
Graphite
(GPH)
Grey
(GRY)
Custom 
(CS)
Options
Bird Deterrant (BD)
Marine Grade Finish (MGF)
Optic Plate Painted to Match Fixture (OPP)
Nema 7-Pin Receptacle (PE7)
Photocell + Receptacle (PCR)
Receptacle + Shorting Cap (PER)
FSP-211 with Motion Sensor (UNV Voltage)
(FSP-20) *9'-20'' Heights
(FSP-40) *21'-40' Heights
Quick Mount Bracket (QMB) 
Retrofit Mount Bracket (RQMB) 
Round Pole Adaptor 3"- 4" Pole (RPA4) 
Round Pole Adaptor 5"- 6" Pole (RPA5)
Rotated  Optic Left (ROL) 
Rotated Optic Right (ROR)
Automotive House Side Shield (AHS)
House Side Shield (HSS)
*HSS not applicable with N3 - NEMA 30° Optics
350
(35)
530
(53)
700
(7)
1050
(1)
MilliampsLight Dist.
Type 2
(T2)
Type 3
(T3)
Type 4
(T4)
Type 5
(T5)
Nema 3
30° Narrow Beam
(N3)
No. of LEDs
16 (16L)
32 (32L)
48 (48L)
64 (64L)
AREA LIGHTING
NV-1
CONSTRUCTION
• Die Cast Aluminum
•
 External cooling fins, Finite Element Analysis (FEA) 
designed
•
 Corrosion resistant external hardware
•
 One-piece silicone gasket ensures IP-65 seal for 
electronics compartment
•
 One-piece Optics Plate™ mounting silicone Micro Optics
•
 Two-piece silicone Micro Optic system ensures IP-67 
level seal around each PCB
•
 Grade 2 Clear Anodiz
ed Optics Plate™ standard
WARRANTY
Five-year limited warranty for drivers and LEDs.
LED WATTAGE CHART
16L 32L 48L 64L
350 milliamps 18w - - -
530 milliamps 28w - - -
700 milliamps 36w 71w 104w 136w
1050 milliamps 56w 106w 156w 205w
NV-1 with DPS3 
LISTINGS
• Cer tified to UL 1598
•
 UL 8750
•
 CSA C22.2 No. 250.0 
•
 DesignLights Consor
tium® (DLC)
•
 DesignLights Consor
tium Premium® (DLCP)
•
 IP65/ IP67 Rated
•
 3G Vibration Rated per ANSI C136.31-2010
FINISH
• 3-5 mils electr ostatic powder coat. 
•
 NLS’ standar
d high-quality finishes prevent corrosion  
protects against and extreme environmental conditions
LIGHT FIXTURE
TYPE 
A1 AND A2
25
52
701 Kingshill Place, Carson, CA 90746
Call Us Today (310) 341-2037 nlslighting.com
ELECTRICAL
• 120-277 V olts (UNV) or 347-480 Volts (HV)
•
 0-10V dimming driv
er by Philips Advance
•
 Driv
er power factor at maximum load is ≥ .95, THD maximum load is 15%
•
 All internal wiring UL cer
tified for 600 VAC and 105°C
•
 All driv
ers, controls, and sensors housed in enclosed IP-65 compartment
•
 L
umileds Luxeon MX LED's
•
 CRI >70
•
 Color temperatur
es: 3000K, 4000K, 5000K
•
 Sur
ge Protection: 20KVA supplies as standard.
RPA4 / RPA5
OPTICS
Silicone optics high photothermal stability and light output provides higher 
powered LEDs with minimized lumen depreciation LED life. UV and thermal 
stability with scratch resistance increases exterior application durability.
•
 IES T
ypes
RPA5
OPTIONS
• BIRD DE TERRANT (BD)—offers effective and humane deterrent for larger 
bird species and provides cost-effective long-term solution to nuisance 
bird infestations and protect your property.
•
 MARINE GRADE FINISH (MGF)—A multi-step pr
ocess creating protective 
finishing coat against harsh environments. 
• Chemically washed in a 5 stage cleaning system.
• Pre-baked 
• Powder coated 3-5 mils of Zinc Rich Super Durable Polyester Primer. 
• 1-2 feet inside pole coverage top and bottom. 
• Oven Baked. 
• Finished Powder Coating of Super Durable Polyester Powder Coat 3-5 
mil thickness.
•
 SHIELDS (HSS, AHS)—House Side Shield (HSS) is designed for full 
pr
operty line cut-off. Automotive House Side Shield (AHS) is a single-sided 
shield allowing partial cut-off on either side or front of luminaire.
•
 ROUND POLE AD
APTER (RPA)– When using round poles, specify Round 
Pole Adapter (RPA). Specify RPA4 when installing on 3"-4" round poles, and 
RPA5 when installing on 5"-6" round poles.
CONTROLS 
•
 FSP-211 (FSP-X)—P
assive infrared (PIR) sensor providing multi-level 
control based on motion/daylight contribution. 
•
 All contr
ol parameters adjustable via wireless configuration remote 
storing and transmitting sensor profiles.  
•
 FSP-20 mounting heights 9-20 f
eet 
•
 FSP-40 mounting heights 21-40 f
eet. 
•
 Includes 5 dimming e
vent cycles, 0-10V dimming with motion 
sensing, reprogrammable in the field.
•
 NEMA 7-PIN RECEPT
ACLE (PE7)—An ANSI C136.41-2013 receptacle 
provides electrical and mechanical interconnection between photo control 
cell and luminaire. Dimming receptacle available two or four dimming 
contacts supports 0-10 VDC dimming methods or Digital Addressable 
Lighting Interface (DALI), providing reliable power interconnect.
Weight: 24 lbs
3.375"
14.75"
16.5"
RPA4
FSP-211
HOUSE SIDE SHIELD
AUTOMOTIVE
HOUSE SIDE SHIELD
TYPE II (T2) TYPE III (T3) TYPE IV (T4) TYPE V (T5) NEMA 3 (N3)
26
53
701 Kingshill Place, Carson, CA 90746
Call Us Today (310) 341-2037 nlslighting.com
PART NUMBER N3 LM/W T2 LM/W DLC T3 LM/W DLC T3 HSS LM/W T4 LM/W DLC T4 AHS LM/W T4 HSS LM/W T5 LM/W DLC W
NV-1-16L-35-30K 2016 112 2106 117 P 2106 117 P 1134 63 2187 116 P 1296 72 1116 62 2231 118 P 18
NV-1-16L-35-40K 2088 116 2268 126 P 2286 127 P 1206 67 2250 125 P 1368 76 1188 66 2304 128 P 18
NV-1-16L-35-50K 2160 120 2376 132 P 2394 133 P 1278 71 2358 131 P 1440 80 1260 70 2412 134 P 18
NV-1-16L-53-30K 3136 112 3192 114 P 3220 115 P 1764 63 3119 113 P 2016 72 1736 62 3248 116 P 28
NV-1-16L-53-40K 3248 116 3472 124 P 3472 124 P 1876 67 3444 123 P 2128 76 1848 66 3500 125 P 28
NV-1-16L-53-50K 3360 120 3612 129 P 3640 130 P 1988 71 3584 128 P 2240 80 1960 70 3668 131 P 28
NV-1-16L-7-30K 4032 112 3960 110 P 3960 110 P 2268 63 3973 109 P 2592 72 2232 62 3996 111 P 36
NV-1-16L-7-40K 4176 116 4428 123 P 4284 119 P 2412 67 4212 117 P 2736 76 2376 66 4320 120 P 36
NV-1-16L-7-50K 4320 120 4644 129 P 4500 125 P 2556 71 4428 123 P 2880 80 2520 70 4500 125 P 36
NV-1-16L-1-30K 6272 112 6160 110 S 6384 114 P 3528 63 6232 112 P 4032 72 3472 62 6440 115 P 56
NV-1-16L-1-40K 6496 116 6832 122 P 6888 123 P 3752 67 6776 121 P 4256 76 3696 66 6944 124 P 56
NV-1-16L-1-50K 6720 120 7168 128 P 7224 129 P 3976 71 7112 127 P 4480 80 3920 70 7280 130 P 56
NV-1-32L-7-30K 7952 112 7810 110 S 7810 110 S 4473 63 7739 109 S 5112 72 4402 62 7881 111 S 71
NV-1-32L-7-40K 8236 116 9017 127 P 8449 119 P 4757 67 8307 117 P 5396 76 4686 66 8520 120 P 71
NV-1-32L-7-50K 8520 120 9159 129 P 8875 125 P 5041 71 8733 123 P 5680 80 4970 70 8946 126 P 71
NV-1-32L-1-30K 11872 112 11660 110 S 12084 114 S 6678 63 11820 112 S 7632 72 6572 62 12190 115 S 106
NV-1-32L-1-40K 12296 116 12932 122 P 13038 123 P 7102 67 12826 121 P 8056 76 6996 66 13144 124 P 106
NV-1-32L-1-50K 12720 120 13568 128 P 13674 129 P 7526 71 13462 127 P 8480 80 7420 70 13780 130 P 106
NV
-1-48L-7-30K 11648 112 11440 110 S 11440 110 S 6552 63 11336 109 S 7488 72 6448 62 11544 111 S 104
NV-1-48L-7-40K 12064 116 13208 127 P 12376 119 P 6968 67 12168 117 P 7904 76 6864 66 12480 120 P 104
NV-1-48L-7-50K 12480 120 13520 130 P 13000 125 P 7384 71 12792 123 P 8320 80 7280 70 13104 126 P 104
NV-1-48L-1-30K 17472 112 17160 110 S 17784 114 S 9828 63 17472 112 S 11232 72 9672 62 17940 115 S 156
NV-1-48L-1-40K 18096 116 19032 122 P 19188 123 P 10452 67 18876 121 P 11856 76 10296 66 19344 124 P 156
NV-1-48L-1-50K 18720 120 19968 128 P 20124 129 P 11076 71 19812 127 P 12480 80 10920 70 20280 130 P 156
NV-1-64L-7-30K 15232 112 14960 110 S 14960 110 S 8568 63 14824 109 S 9792 72 8432 62 15096 111 S 136
NV-1-64L-7-40K 15776 116 17272 127 P 16184 119 P 9112 67 15912 117 P 10336 76 8976 66 16320 120 P 136
NV-1-64L-7-50K 16320 120 17680 130 P 17000 125 P 9656 71 16728 123 P 10880 80 9520 70 17136 126 P 136
NV-1-64L-1-30K 22960 112 22550 110 S 23370 114 S 12915 63 22960 112 S 14760 72 12710 62 23575 115 S 205
NV-1-64L-1-40K 23780 116 25010 122 P 25215 123 P 13735 67 24805 121 P 15580 76 13530 66 25420 124 P 205
NV-1-64L-1-50K 24600 120 26240 128 P 26445 129 P 14555 71 26035 127 P 16400 80 14350 70 26650 130 P 205
LUMENS
PART NUMBER T2 T3 T3 HSS T4 T4 HSS T5
NV-1-16L-35-30K B1-U0-G1 B1-U0-G1 B0-U0-G0 B1-U0-G1 B0-U0-G0 B2-U0-G0
NV-1-16L-35-40K B1-U0-G1 B1-U0-G1 B0-U0-G0 B1-U0-G1 B0-U0-G0 B2-U0-G0
NV-1-16L-35-50K B1-U0-G1 B1-U0-G1 B0-U0-G0 B1-U0-G1 B0-U0-G0 B2-U0-G2
NV-1-16L-53-30K B1-U0-G1 B1-U0-G1 B0-U0-G1 B1-U0-G1 B0-U0-G1 B2-U0-G1
NV-1-16L-53-40K B1-U0-G1 B1-U0-G1 B0-U0-G1 B1-U0-G1 B0-U0-G1 B2-U0-G1
NV-1-16L-53-50K B1-U0-G1 B1-U0-G1 B0-U0-G1 B1-U0-G1 B0-U0-G1 B2-U0-G1
NV-1-16L-7-30K B1-U0-G1 B1-U0-G1 B0-U0-G1 B1-U0-G1 B0-U0-G1 B3-U0-G1
NV-1-16L-7-40K B1-U0-G1 B1-U0-G1 B0-U0-G1 B1-U0-G1 B0-U0-G1 B3-U0-G1
NV-1-16L-7-50K B1-U0-G1 B1-U0-G1 B0-U0-G1 B1-U0-G1 B0-U0-G1 B3-U0-G1
NV-1-16L-1-30K B1-U0-G1 B1-U0-G1 B0-U0-G1 B1-U0-G1 B0-U0-G1 B3-U0-G1
NV-1-16L-1-40K B1-U0-G1 B2-U0-G2 B0-U0-G1 B2-U0-G2 B0-U0-G1 B3-U0-G2
NV-1-16L-1-50K B1-U0-G2 B2-U0-G2 B0-U0-G1 B2-U0-G2 B0-U0-G1 B3-U0-G2
NV-1-32L-7-30K B1-U0-G2 B2-U0-G2 B0-U0-G1 B2-U0-G2 B0-U0-G1 B3-U0-G2
NV-1-32L-7-40K B1-U0-G2 B2-U0-G2 B0-U0-G1 B2-U0-G2 B0-U0-G2 B3-U0-G2
NV-1-32L-7-50K B2-U0-G2 B2-U0-G2 B0-U0-G2 B2-U0-G2 B0-U0-G2 B3-U0-G2
NV-1-32L-1-30K B2-U0-G2 B2-U0-G2 B0-U0-G2 B2-U0-G2 B0-U0-G2 B4-U0-G2
NV-1-32L-1-40K B2-U0-G2 B2-U0-G2 B0-U0-G2 B3-U0-G2 B0-U0-G2 B4-U0-G2
NV-1-32L-1-50K B2-U0-G2 B3-U0-G3 B0-U0-G2 B3-U0-G3 B0-U0-G2 B4-U0-G2
NV-1-48L-7-30K B2-U0-G2 B2-U0-G2 B0-U0-G2 B2-U0-G2 B0-U0-G2 B4-U0-G2
NV-1-48L-7-40K B2-U0-G2 B2-U0-G2 B0-U0-G2 B2-U0-G2 B0-U0-G2 B4-U0-G2
NV-1-48L-7-50K B2-U0-G2 B3-U0-G3 B0-U0-G2 B2-U0-G2 B0-U0-G2 B4-U0-G2
NV-1-48L-1-30K B3-U0-G3 B3-U0-G3 B1-U0-G2 B3-U0-G3 B1-U0-G2 B4-U0-G2
NV-1-48L-1-40K B3-U0-G3 B3-U0-G3 B1-U0-G2 B3-U0-G3 B1-U0-G2 B5-U0-G3
NV-1-48L-1-50K B3-U0-G3 B3-U0-G3 B1-U0-G2 B3-U0-G3 B1-U0-G2 B5-U0-G3
NV-1-64L-7-30K B2-U0-G2 B3-U0-G3 B0-U0-G2 B3-U0-G3 B1-U0-G2 B4-U0-G2
NV-1-64L-7-40K B3-U0-G3 B3-U0-G3 B0-U0-G2 B3-U0-G3 B1-U0-G2 B4-U0-G2
NV-1-64L-7-50K B3-U0-G3 B3-U0-G3 B1-U0-G2 B3-U0-G3 B1-U0-G2 B4-U0-G2
NV-1-64L-1-30K B3-U0-G3 B3-U0-G3 B1-U0-G2 B3-U0-G3 B1-U0-G3 B5-U0-G3
NV-1-64L-1-40K B3-U0-G3 B3-U0-G3 B1-U0-G3 B3-U0-G4 B1-U0-G3 B5-U0-G3
NV-1-64L-1-50K B3-U0-G3 B3-U0-G3 B1-U0-G3 B3-U0-G4 B1-U0-G3 B5-U0-G3
BUG RATINGS
*DLC S= Standard P= Premium
27
54
701 Kingshill Place, Carson, CA 90746
Call Us Today (310) 341-2037 nlslighting.com
OPTICAL CONFIGURATIONS
Rotatable Optics (ROR) Rotated Right, (ROL) Rotated Left options available. Optics field and factory rotatable.
* OPTIC PLATE PAINTED TO MATCH FIXTURE FINISH (OPP)– Optic Plate standard clear anodized, Grade 2. When (OPP) specified, Optic Plate 
finish will match fixture finish.
NV-1 / 32L
(OPP)
NV-1 / 48L NV-1 / 64LNV-1 / 16L
MOUNTING OPTIONS
DIRECT POLE (DP)
Standard mounting arm is extruded 
aluminum in lengths of 3" and 7".
*Arm lengths may vary depending on configuration
KNUCKLE MOUNT (KM)
Die Cast Knuckle great for adjustable installation 
on 2-3/8" OD vertical or horizontal tenon.
•
 Max Uptilt of 114 degr
ees 
•
 Adjustable in 6 degr
ee increments
EPA
EPA SGL D90 D180 T90 T120 QD
NV-1-DP 0.46 1.14 0.92 1.34 1.37 1.34
NV-1-KM 0.54 N/A 1.08 N/A N/A N/A
NV-1-ASA 0.75 1.29 1.50 1.99 2.05 1.99
DPX ARM LENGTH
DPX
ARM LENGTH SGL D90 D180 T90 T120 QD
NV-1 3" 7" 3" 7" 7" 7"
L70/L90 DATA
TEMP. NV-1
L70 (64L-1050mA) L90 (64L-1050mA)
25°C 483,000 160,000
WALL MOUNT (WM)
TRUNNION MOUNT (TM)
TENNIS ARM (TA)
Cast Aluminum Plate for direct wall 
mount. 3" extruded aluminum arm 
mounts directly to a cast wall mount box.
Steel, bolt-on-mounting for adjustable 
installation with a maximum uplift of 
90 degrees.
*Unpainted stainless steel is standard
Steel fitter slips over 3.5" x 1.5" rectangular arm. 
*
See Tennis Arm Spec Sheet for details
7"
3"
SGL, D180
D90, T90, T120, QD
1.25" 
THK
2.5" 
5.33" 
(0-114° Tilt)
(90° Tilt)
OPTIONAL
Optional Cast Aluminum Bracket, Quick Mount Bracket (QMB) 
and Retrofit Quick Mount Bracket (RQMB), designed for quick 
mounting on Direct Square or Round Poles. Cleat mounts 
directly to pole for easily hung fixtures.
Longer slot to 
accommodate 
existing drill 
pattern.
QMB RQMB
28
55
Spec Sheet | BW100
1 
Profile Bollard
Revised July 18, 2022    |    Landscape Forms Inc.    |    800.521.2546    |    F 269.381.3455    |    7800 E. Michigan Ave., Kalamazoo, MI 49048
Mounting
Available in surface mount only. Epoxy-embedded anchor bolts and 
base plate template included.
Warranty
LED lighting products are warranted for six years.
Certification
UL Listed for Wet Location, CE, Buy America Compliant,  
RoHS Compliant, Dark Sky Approved
Designed by Linnaea Tillett & Tillett Lighting Design Associates
Click here  for patent information related to this product.
Housing & Materials
One-piece welded pole made from hollow extruded aluminum ‘H’ 
section with machined aluminum top and base plates. Cast aluminum 
base plate cover with hidden fasteners. 
Electrical
Surge protected 120V through 277V 50/60Hz electronic driver, 
phase-cut dimming. -40°C start temperature. Cast aluminum driver 
compartment doors with weather-tight seal assembly located at 
bottom of pole.
Light Engines 
The Profile performance bollard has a replaceable LED cartridge that 
consists of die cast aluminum body with high power LEDs on RoHS 
compliant circuit boards, and secondary optics. Sealed, UV stable, 
impact modified diffuse acrylic lens. Unit mounts to pole with magni-
coated hardware. 
The Profile wayfinding bollard has a replaceable LED cartridge that 
consists of die cast aluminum body with high power LEDs on RoHS 
compliant circuit board, secondary optics, and injection molded cutoff 
baffle. Sealed, UV stable, impact modified clear acrylic lens. Unit 
mounts to pole with magni-coated hardware. 
All lighting engines are available in 2700K, 3000K, 3500K, and 4000K. 
>80CRI across all available color temperatures. 
Performance bollard only.
Distributions
TIV
The Profile family of lights creates beautiful and intentional light 
emanating from a refined, minimalist design. Shadows from Profile’s 
I-beam channels and modular design build a light experience like no 
other, creating poetry between the sculptural form and the play of 
light upon the object and its surroundings. Profile features a palette of 
configurable options that creates an aesthetic and performance to fit a 
variety of applications - from large, open areas and narrow pathways to 
landscape beds and building entrances.  
TV
LIGHT FIXTURE
TYPE 
B1
29
56
Spec Sheet | BW100
2 
Profile Bollard
Revised July 18, 2022    |    Landscape Forms Inc.    |    800.521.2546    |    F 269.381.3455    |    7800 E. Michigan Ave., Kalamazoo, MI 49048
3' Single Performance Bollard
Weight: 43 lbs
TM21 L70(10k): >60,000 hrs 
Protection Class: IP66
EPA: 3.08 ft
2
2’ Unlit Perimeter Bollard
Weight: 25 lbs
EPA: 2.05 ft
2
3’ Unlit Perimeter Bollard
Weight: 35 lbs
EPA: 3.04 ft
2
2’ Wayfinding Bollard
Weight: 32 lbs
TM21 L70(10k): >60,000 hrs 
Protection Class: IP66
EPA: 2.05 ft
2
3’ Wayfinding Bollard
Weight: 42 lbs
TM21 L70(10k): >60,000 hrs 
Protection Class: IP66
EPA: 3.04 ft
2
3' Double Performance Bollard
Weight: 45 lbs
TM21 L70(10k): >60,000 hrs 
Protection Class: IP66
EPA: 3.14 ft
2
36" 
914mm
36" 
914mm
11 13/16" 
300mm
9 1/8" 
232mm 6 1/2" 
165mm
6 1/2" 
165mm
6 1/2" 
165mm
6 1/2" 
165mm
6 1/2" 
165mm
2 11/16"
67mm 2 11/16"
67mm
6 1/2" 
165mm
6 1/2" 
165mm
6 1/2" 
165mm
6 1/2" 
165mm
6 1/2" 
165mm
36" 
914mm
36" 
914mm
24 1/2" 
622mm
24 1/2" 
622mm
30
57
Spec Sheet | BW100
3 
Profile Bollard
Revised July 18, 2022    |    Landscape Forms Inc.    |    800.521.2546    |    F 269.381.3455    |    7800 E. Michigan Ave., Kalamazoo, MI 49048
62
124
187
249
1
2
62
124
187
249
1
2
5ft
24
5ft
.1
.2
.5
1
24
5ft
42
1
.5
.2
.1
5ft
4
2
.1
Model Distribution Type Drive Current  Delivered Lumens System Wattage Bug Rating Lens
Performance Bollard Type IV 400mA 470 8 B0-U1-G1 Frosted
Performance Bollard Type V  700mA 820 16 B1-U1-G1 Frosted
Wayfinding Bollard N/A 350mA 52 7 B0-U1-G0 Clear
This data is subject to change.
*Type 5 Profile Performance Bollard consists of back to back Type 4 light engines
Performance Bollard Wayfinding Bollard
Maximum Candela = 251.8
Located At Horizontal Angle = 0
Vertical Angle = 65
Maximum Candela = 248.9
Located At Horizontal Angle = 15
Vertical Angle = 10
2 ft Unit
3 ft Unit
3 ft Unit
3 ft Unit
31
58
Spec Sheet | BW100
4 
Profile Bollard
Revised July 18, 2022    |    Landscape Forms Inc.    |    800.521.2546    |    F 269.381.3455    |    7800 E. Michigan Ave., Kalamazoo, MI 49048
Product Distribution Color Temperature* Input Voltage
BW101 ( Profile Performance Bollard ) T4 ( Type IV ) 27K ( 2700K ) UV1 ( 100V-277V, 50/60 Hz )
T5 ( Type V ) 30K ( 3000K )
35K ( 3500K )
40K ( 4000K )
Product Height Color Temperature Input Voltage
BW102 ( Profile Wayfinding Bollard ) 2 ( 2 ft or 0.6m Unit ) 27K ( 2700K ) UV1 ( 100V-277V, 50/60 Hz )
3 ( 3 ft or 0.9m Unit ) 30K ( 3000K )
35K ( 3500K )
40K ( 4000K )
Product Height
BW103 ( Profile Unlit Perimeter Bollard ) 2 ( 2 ft or 0.6m Unit )
3 ( 3 ft or 0.9m Unit )
Example: BW101 – T4 – 27K – UV1 – Powdercoat
* 
 For Dark Sky certification, 3000k or warmer must be selected.
 
Other color temperatures available upon request.
Example: BW102 – 2 – 27K – UV1 – Powdercoat
Example: BW103 – 2 – Powdercoat
Performance Bollard
Wayfinding Bollard
Unlit Perimeter Bollard
Notes:
32
59
Profile Column Light
5 
Revised September 15, 2023    |    Landscape Forms Inc.    |    800.521.2546    |    F 269.381.3455    |    7800 E. Michigan Ave., Kalamazoo, MI 49048
Material / Colors Sheet | BW200
SIL (Silver Metallic)
BLK (Gloss Black) WHT (Gloss White)
STL (Steel Metallic)MER (Mercury Metallic) BRZ (Bronze Metallic) TNM (Titanium Metallic)
Neutral Series - Powdercoated Metal *
FOG (Fog)
SAG (Sage) BLA (Blue Ash) DSK (Dusk)
MBK (Matte Black)OBD (Obsidian) TER (Terra) NMG (Nutmeg) ONX (Onyx)
Architectural Series - Powdercoated Metal * (Fine Texture) 
LFG (Loll Leaf Green) FOR (Forest)MSS (Moss) NVY (Loll Navy Blue)
CLY (Clay) MNG (Mango)LMN (Lemon) STG (Loll Sunset Orange) CHL (Chili) APR (Loll Apple Red)
Vivid Series - Powdercoated Metal * (Fine Texture)
33
60
Profile Column Light
6 
Revised September 15, 2023    |    Landscape Forms Inc.    |    800.521.2546    |    F 269.381.3455    |    7800 E. Michigan Ave., Kalamazoo, MI 49048
Material / Colors Sheet | BW200
Powdercoated Metal 
Powdercoated Metal Pangard II ® Polyester Powdercoat is a hard,
yet flexible, finish that resists rusting, chipping, peeling and fading.
In addition to colors shown, a wide selection of optional and custom 
colors may be specified for an upcharge.
*
 Al
l colors and patterns shown are approximate and may vary
from sample and final.
Visit landscapeforms.com for more information. Specifications are 
subject to change without notice. Landscape Forms supports the 
Landscape Architecture Foundation at the Second Century level. 
©2023 Landscape Forms, Inc. 
landscapeforms.com  |  specify@landscapeforms.com
34
61
D
  
Eagle Mountain Flag 333 FM 2325 Wimberley, TX 78676 512-847-0010
emflag.com
 STARGAZER LED Downlight/Internal-External 
    Truck Combo
(M) = 9"
(M) = 12"
(M) = 15.75"
 
 
  
 
design prevents your flagpole lighting from contributing to light pollution created by traditional up
lighting. A unique triangulation method of LED placement and the curvature of the fixtures optical
The StarGazer is a revolutionary downlight that incorporates the latest LED technology into flagpole
design create outstanding performance with the most efficient distribution of light. The downlight
(M) Size Option Performance
- Lumens: Amber=987; 3000K=1,005; 5000K=1,085
- Temperature Range: -40°F to 149°F
- Color Accuracy (CRI): 90+
- Input Voltage: 24V DC
- Input Watts/Amps (LM-79 reported): 13W/ 0.50 A
²
²
²
²
²
low-voltage cord. Available in 100' & 150' options
Includes 60' (standard) factory-installed,
illumination from StarGazer LED
Truck will allow flag to revolve 359 degrees and maintain
separate ornament and pulley system
LED Downlight/Truck Combo - Eliminates the need for a
Features & Specifications
- LED Source IP Rating: IP67
United States Patent No.: US 10,808,913 B1 NOT BURY ABOVE-GROUND POWER SUPPLY
MUST BE INSTALLED BY A LICENSED ELECTRICIAN. DO 
MUST REMAIN IN THE PROVIDED ENCLOSURE BOX. 
MUST BE INSTALLED OUTSIDE OF THE FLAGPOLE, AND 
ELECTRICAL HAZARD. POWER SUPPLIES/DRIVERS 
INSIDE OR ON YOUR FLAGPOLE(S) IT CREATES AN 
DO NOT RUN LINE VOLTAGE OR PLACE POWER SUPPLY 
StarGazers on the same circuit and can be remotely
One Power Supply can power up to 3 (M)
Power Supply options
Above-Ground, In-Ground, Marine Grade & Faux Rock 
located up to 150' from the light source(s)
50
,000 hours, providing 25 times longer la
mp life than halogen lamps (12+ years with photocell).
certification. (M
) option for use on flag sizes up to 15’x 25’, these
 commercial-grade LED’s are rated for 
lights, allowing the Star
Gazer to achieve International Dark Sky Association’s “Dar
k Sky Appr
oved” 
LIGHT FIXTURE
TYPE 
FP1
35
62
SG-ROCK-AUTUUMN SG-ROCK-FIELDSTONE
SG-ROCK-SANDSTONESG-ROCK-RIVERBED
Eagle Mountain Flag 333 FM 2325 Wimberley, TX 78676 512-847-0010
emflag.com
&ĂƵǆZŽĐŬWŽǁĞƌ^ƵƉƉůǇ
PHOTOCELL 
ƵƐŬͲƚŽͲĂǁŶWŚŽƚŽĐĞůůĨŽƌ^dZ'Z
Lightweight, easy to move, extremely durable²
Dimensions Vary: 19" x 14" x 12"²
5 lbs²
Capable of powering up to 3 (S) or (M) StarGazers²
STARGAZER Ordering Information
Model LED Kelvin Temp
 
Ordering Example: SG-3K-EHS-M-60 
 
Low Voltage Cable Length
 
²
²
ĐĐĞƐƐŽƌŝĞƐ ;KƌĚĞƌĂƐƐĞƉĂƌĂƚĞůŝŶĞŝƚĞŵƐͿ
SOLAR POWER SUPPLY OPTIONS AVAILABLE. CONTACT EAGLE MOUNTAIN FOR MORE INFORMATION
PCxxxVFMPCxxxVCM
(1/2" Conduit Mount)
Please specify input voltage
Voltage: 120 OR 208-277
Dome Size Dome Finish
BLANK = Satin (Std.)
BRZ = Bronze
BLK = BK
WHT = White
 
 
SG = St
arGazer
Truc
k FinishTr
uck Style
5K = 5000K
AMBE
R = AMBER
IHR - Internal, Revolving
EHRD = Double External, Revolving
EHR = External, Revolving
EHS= 
External, Stationary
 150 = 150'
 100 = 100'
60 = 60' (Std
.)
SIL = Silver
WHT =
 White
BLK =
 Black
BRZ =
 Bronze
BLANK = 
Gold (Std.)
3K = 
3000K (Std.)              (Std.)
M= 
Medium
² Capable of powering up to (3) 
StarGazers on a single circuit
² 5lbs
² 9"W x 9"L 5"H 
² NOT TO BE PLACED IN OR
ON THE FLAGPOLE(S)
² Capable of powering up to (3) StarGazers on a single circuit
² 3lbs
² 4"W x 11"L x 3"H
² NOT TO BE PLACED IN OR ON THE FLAGPOLE(S)
SG-MG-DRIVER
Marine Grade Power Supply
SG-AG-DRIVER
Above Ground/Wall Mount Power Supply
SG-IG-DRIVER
In Ground/Direct Burial Power Supply
² Capable of powering up to (3) StarGazers on a single circuit
² 5 lbs
² 12"L x 10"W x 6"H
² NOT TO BE PLACED IN OR ON THE FLAGPOLE(S)
² NOT TO BE FULLY SUBMERGED UNDERWATER
36
63
Construction Cost-effective classic exterior bollard range.
Elegant urban form with lateral light accent and 
optional top covers.
Columbus is an decorative bollard that is suitable for both 
modern and classic architecture. Ideal for creating visual 
guidance with exceptional visual comfort. This product was 
developed to complement the Columbus range of pillar 
lights, wall sconces and post tops. This sleek shape provides 
distinctive lighting effects by night and decorative urban 
effect during the day. Suitable for pedestrian precincts, 
building surrounds, shopping centers, squares and parks.
 
The Columbus Bollard comes standard with a unique 
waterproof internal driver housing compartment that is 
situated at the top of the pole to stop water and dust from 
entering the electrical components. This fixture is supplied 
completely wired with powercord and waterproof gland from 
the driver enclosure to the base of the bollard ensuring quick 
trouble-free installation. Custom bollard heights are available, 
please specify.
Color temperature 2700K, 3000K, 3500K and 4000K.
Custom wattages can be provided to suit customer and Title 
24 requirements. (Specify total watts per fixture)
   
Security Bollard:
This Bollard is available as a traffic rated security bollard. This 
optional design includes a 1/4” wall thickness galvanized steel 
security pole with 2  1” galvanized  cross support rods that are 
embedded into concrete. 
The standard security bollard provides restraint of vehicular 
traffic in unauthorized areas.
Impact calculations shows this bollard will stop a 5,500lb/2.75 
tons vehicle, travelling at 30mph.  
For additional strength, the galvanized pole must be filled with 
concrete up to the waterproof driver housing to provide a solid 
concrete barrier. 
A K4 rated security bollard is also available. This bollard is 
provided with internal reinforcement and is to be filled with 
concrete at the job site by others. This bollard will stop a 
15,000lb vehicle traveling at 30mph. 
Additional Options (Consult Factory For Pricing)
UCO-10127
Columbus 2 Bollard
Dome Top
Ligman Lighting USA reserves the right to change speci/f_ications without prior notice, please contact factory for latest information.  Due to the continual improvements in LED technology data and components may change without notice. 
Mounting DetailIP65 - Internal top access 
driver housing, prewired with 
SO cord and waterproof cable 
gland for easy installation. 
Flat Top
9”
9.5”
8.5”
40.5”
Ø.6”
Ø3.2” 3.7”
8.1”
1”
41w COB 995 Lumens
IP65 • Suitable For Wet Locations
IK08 • Impact Resistant (Vandal Resistant)
Weight 25.3 lbs
A13591
Security Bollard
SBK4
K4 Rated 
Security Bollard
A91591
Lockable In Use GFCI 
Receptacle Outlet Box
Aluminum 
Less than 0.1% copper content – Marine Grade 6060 extruded & 
LM6 Aluminum High Pressure die casting provides excellent 
mechanical strength , clean detailed product lines and excellent 
heat dissipation. 
Pre paint
8 step degrease and phosphate process that includes 
deoxidizing and etching as well as a zinc and nickel phosphate 
process before product painting.
Memory Retentive -Silicon Gasket
Provided with special injection molded “fit for purpose” long life 
high temperature memory retentive silicon gaskets. Maintains 
the gaskets exact profile and seal over years of use and 
compression.
Thermal management
LM6 Aluminum is used for its excellent mechanical strength and 
thermal dissipation properties in low and high ambient 
temperatures. The superior thermal heat sink design by Ligman 
used in conjunction with the driver, controls thermals below 
critical temperature range to ensure maximum luminous flux 
output, as well as providing long LED service life and ensuring 
less than 10% lumen depreciation at 50,000 hours.  
Surge Suppression
Standard 10kv surge suppressor provided with all fixtures.
BUG Rating
B1 - U3 - G1
Finishing 
All Ligman products go through an extensive finishing process 
that includes fettling to improve paint adherence.
Paint
UV Stabilized 4.9Mil thick powder coat paint and baked at 200 
Deg C. This process ensures that Ligman products can 
withstand harsh environments. Rated for use in natatoriums. 
Inspired by Nature Finishes
The Inspired by nature Finishing is a unique system of 
decorative powder coating. Our metal decoration process can 
easily transform the appearance of metal or aluminum product 
into a wood grain finish.
This patented technology enables the simulation of wood grain, 
and even marble or granite finish through the use of decorative 
powder coating.
The wood grain finish is so realistic that it’s almost 
undistinguishable from real wood, even from a close visual 
inspection. The system of coating permeates the entire 
thickness of the coat and as a result, the coating cannot be 
removed by normal rubbing, chipping, or scratching.
The Coating Process
After pre-treatment the prepared parts are powder coated with 
a specially formulated polyurethane powder. This powder 
provides protection against wear, abrasion, impact and 
corrosion and acts as the relief base color for the finalized metal 
decoration.
The component is then wrapped with a sheet of non-porous 
film with the selected decoration pattern printed on it using 
special high temperature inks.
 
This printed film transfer is vacuum-sealed to the surface for a 
complete thermo print and then transferred into a customized 
oven. The oven transforms the ink into different forms within 
the paint layer before it becomes solid. Finally, the film is 
removed, and a vivid timber look on aluminum remains.
Wood grain coating can create beautiful wood-looking products 
of any sort.  There are over 300 combinations of designs 
currently in use.  Wood grains can be made with different 
colors, designs, etc.
Our powder coatings are certified for indoor and outdoor 
applications and are backed by a comprehensive warranty. 
These coatings rise to the highest conceivable standard of 
performance excellence and design innovation. 
Added Benefits
• Resistance to salt-acid room, accelerated aging 
• Boiling water, lime and condensed water resistant
• Anti-Graffiti, Anti-Slip, Anti-Microbial, Anti-Scratch
• Super durable (UV resistant)
• TGIC free (non-toxic)
Hardware
Provided Hardware is Marine grade 316 Stainless steel.
Anti Seize Screw Holes
Tapped holes are infused with a special anti seize compound 
designed to prevent seizure of threaded connections, due to 
electrolysis from heat, corrosive atmospheres and moisture.
Crystal Clear Low Iron Glass Lens
Provided with tempered, impact resistant crystal clear low iron 
glass ensuring no green glass tinge.
Optics & LED
Precise optic design provides exceptional light control and 
precise distribution of light. LED CRI > 80 
Lumen - Maintenance Life
L80 /B10 at 50,000 hours (This means that at least 90% of the 
LED still achieve 80% of their original flux)
Occupancy Sensor
LIGHT FIXTURE
TYPE 
SB1
37
64
FINISH COLOR
DATE
PROJECT
QUANTITY TYPE NOTE
ORDERING EXAMPLE || UCO - 10127 - 41w - W30 - 02 - 120/277v - Options
Ligman Lighting USA reserves the right to change speci/f_ications without prior notice, please contact factory for latest information.  Due to the continual improvements in LED technology data and components may change without notice. 
UCO-10127
Columbus 2 Bollard
LAMP
41w COB
995 Lumens
ADDITIONAL OPTIONS
UL - Unlit Bollard
GFCI - GFCI Box
NAT - Natatorium Rated
A13591 - Security Bollard
SBK4 - K4 Rated Security Bollard
LED COLOR
W27 - 2700K
W30 - 3000K
W35 - 3500K
W40 - 4000K
VOLTAGE
120/277v
Other - Specify
DIM - 0-10v Dimming
HGT - Custom Bollard Height [Specify HGT=XX”]
OCC1 - Single Occupancy Sensor
A91591 - Lockable In Use GFCI Receptacle Outlet Box
A14291 - Remote Controller for Motion Sensor
TOP
1 - Dome Top
2 - Flat Top
OCCUPANCY SENSOR OPTION
UCO-10127
15’
OCC1
SINGLE OCCUPANCY SENSOR DETECTION RANGE
[UNIVERSAL LEFT OR RIGHT DETECTION]
* The integrated, smart occupancy sensor can be programmed on site to function in a variety of ways. 
Example: Simple on-off mode || DIM -> full light output on detection -> DIM | Off -> full bright on detection -> DIM for a set time with no detection -> off | DIM -> full bright on detection ->DIM
20’
30’
15’
20’
20’
30’
Oak Cherry
Walnut Chestnut
Pine Mahogany
Beech Carbon
Bamboo Galvanized
Birch Steel
More Custom Finishes Available Upon Request
Consult factory for pricing and lead times
Example: Inspired by Nature Finish
01 - BLACK RAL 9011
02 - DARK GREY RAL 7043
03 - WHITE RAL 9003
04 - METALLIC SILVER RAL 9006
05 - MATTE SILVER RAL 9006
06 - LIGMAN BRONZE 
SW01 - OAK FINISH
SW02 - WALNUT FINISH
SW03- PINE FINISH
DF - DOUGLAS FIR FINISH
CW - CHERRY WOOD FINISH
NW - NATIONAL WALNUT FINISH
SU01 -  CONCRETE FINISH
SU02 - SOFTSCAPE FINISH
SU03 - STONE FINISH
SU04 - CORTEN FINISH
INSPIRED BY NATURE FINISHES
07 - CUSTOM RAL 
THERE IS AN ADDITIONAL COST FOR CUSTOM COLORS
THERE IS AN ADDITIONAL COST FOR INSPIRED BY 
NATURE FINISHES
38
65
Columbus Product Family
Columbus 1 Columbus 2 Columbus 3
• UCO-10117-41w-995lm [28”/28.4”] • UCO-10127-41w-995lm [40”/40.5”] • UCO-70098-41w-995lm [17.2”/17.8”]
Columbus 4
• UCO-20136-41w-2182lm
Columbus 5 Columbus 6 Columbus 7
• UCO-20196-41w-2182lm • UCO-30166-41w-2182lm • UCO-30196-41w-2182lm 
Columbus 8
• UCO-95026-41w-2182lm
39
66
Form
• 2 Architectural Wall Sconces
• Elegant Rectilinear Extruded 
  Aluminum Housing
• Corrosion Resistant Stainless 
  Steel External Hardware
• Sleek, low profile housing
• Spec grade performance
• Engineered for optimum 
  thermal management
• 8 Architectural finishes 
  standard, RAL colors available
Function
• Micro Optics IES Distributions 
  T2, T3, T4, T5
• Lumileds Luxeon MX. LEDs 
• Philips Advance 0-10V Dimming
  Drivers THD @ Max Load < 15%
  Power factor @ Max Load < 0.95
• 3000, 4000, or 5000 Kelvin
• 16L TO 64L LED Configuration
• 18-205 Watts (Single Head 
   Wattage)
• <CRI 70
• Extruded Aluminum Heat Sink
• Driver Separate from Light Engine
  for Superior Thermal Management
• 5 mils Powder Coat
Reliability
• 30 Year Lighting Solution
• L70 483,000 Hours
• L90 160,000 Hours
• Silicone Micro Optics
• 5 Year Standard Warranty
• IP 65 Rated Fixture
• IP67 Optics
• UL Listed
• Reduces energy consumption and 
  costs up to 65%
TRAC LINEAR
ANGLED WALL MOUNT
TWA
51 
LED WATTAGE CHART
16L
175 milliamps 10w (765-850 Lumens)
350 milliamps 18w (1944-2470 Lumens)
530 milliamps 28w (2940-3584 Lumens)
700 milliamps 36w (3636-4428 Lumens)
1050 milliamps 56w (5408-6496 Lumens)
LIGHT FIXTURE
TYPE 
W1
40
67
Project Name: Type:
Cat#
701 Kingshill Place, Carson, CA 90746
P: (310) 341-2037 nlslighting.com
Trac Linear 
Angled
Wall Mount
(TWA)
16
(16L)
3000K
(30K)
4000K
(40K)
5000K
(50K)
175
(175)
350
(35)
530
(53)
700
(7)
1050
(1)
120-277
(UNV)
Wall Mount
(WM)
Bronze Textured
(BRZ)
White Textured
(WHT)
Smooth White
Gloss
(SWT)
Silver Textured
(SVR)
Black Textured
(BLK)
Smooth Black
Gloss
(SBK)
Graphite Textured
(GPH)
Grey
(GRY)
Custom
(CS)
Type 2 
(T2)
Type 3 
(T3)
Type 4 
(T4)
Light Dist. No. of LEDs Milliamps Kelvin
Volts Mounting Color
Surge Protector
(10K)
Button Photo Cell
(PC)
*Universal 
Voltage 120-277
Marine Grade
Finish
(MGF)
Emergency Battery 8W
(EM8)
Options
TWA ORDERING GUIDE
52 
4168
 ELECTRICAL
• 120-277 Volts (UNV) or 347-480 Volts (HV)
• 0-10V dimming driver by Philips Advance
• Driver power factor at maximum load is ≥ .95, THD maximum load is 15%
• All internal wiring UL certified for 600 VAC and 105°C
• All drivers, controls, and sensors housed in enclosed IP-65 compartment
• Lumileds Luxeon MX LED’s
• CRI >70
• Color temperatures: 3000K, 4000K, 5000K
OPTIONS
• MARINE GRADE FINISH (MGF)—A multi-step process creating protective 
finishing coat against harsh environments. Chemically washed in a 5 stage 
cleaning system. Pre-baked, Powder coated 3-5 mils of Zinc Rich Super 
Durable Polyester Primer. Oven Baked. Finished Powder Coating of Super 
Durable Polyester Powder Coat 3-5 mil thickness.
• Surge Protector - (10K)  
CONTROLS
• Button Type Photo Cell (PC)
• Internal Microwave Motion Sensor (IMMS)
CONSTRUCTION
• Formed Aluminum
• Internal cooling fins, Finite Element Analysis (FEA) designed
• Corrosion resistant external hardware
• One-piece silicone gasket ensures IP-65 seal for 
  electronics compartment
• One-piece Optics Plate™ mounting silicone Micro Optics
• Two-piece silicone Micro Optic system ensures IP-67
   seal around each PCB
FINISH
• 3-5 mils electrostatic powder coat.
• NLS Light’s standard high-quality finishes prevent corrosion
  protects against and extreme environmental conditions
WARRANTY
Five-year limited warranty for drivers and LEDs.
OPTICS
Silicone optics high thermal stability and light output provide higher 
powered LEDs with minimized lumen depreciation. UV stability with scratch 
resistance increases exterior application durability. Silicone optics do not 
yellow, crack or brittle over time
LISTINGS
• Certified to UL 1598
• UL 8750
• CSA C22.2 No. 250.0
• IP65/ IP67 Rated
DIMENSIONS
701 Kingshill Place, Carson, CA 90746
P: (310) 341-2037 nlslighting.com
6.00 
 8.00 
2.00 
 8.00 
Front View
Bottom View
Side View
53 
4269
701 Kingshill Place, Carson, CA 90746
P: (310) 341-2037 nlslighting.com
IES DISTRIBUTIONS
SILICONE OPTICS
T2 Optic
The Type II distribution is used for narrow pathways and trails, 
narrow entrances of shopping centers, parking lots and office 
complex’s. 
NLS Lighting Silicone Micro Optical System technology takes quality and performance to the highest level.
Vandal resistant, superior clarity—Micro Optics have become the best and lasting solution in the industry.
BENEFITS
• Produces superior 96% clarity
• Heat resistant to 200° C, 50% higher than acrylic
• Ecologically friendly—no glare
• Vandal-resistant
• Does not brittle, crack, or yellow over time
The type III distribution is meant for roadway lighting, general 
parking areas and other areas where a larger area of lighting is 
required. Type III lighting needs to be placed to the side of the 
area, allowing the light to project outward and fill the area. This 
produces a filling light flow.
Type III light distributions have a preferred lateral width of 40 
degrees. This distribution is intended for luminaires mounted 
at or near the side of medium width roadways or areas, where 
the width of the roadway or area does not exceed 2.75 times the 
mounting height.
The type IV distribution produces a semicircular light meant 
for mounting on the sides of buildings and walls. It’s best for 
illuminating the perimeter of parking areas and businesses. The 
intensity of the Type IV lighting has the same intensity at angles 
from 90 degrees to 270 degrees.
Type IV light distributions have a preferred lateral width of 60 
degrees. This distribution is intended for side-of-road mounting 
and is generally used on wide roadways where the roadway width 
does not exceed 3.7 times the mounting height.
T4 Optic
T3 Optic
54 
4370
701 Kingshill Place, Carson, CA 90746
P: (310) 341-2037 nlslighting.com
MODEL WIDTH DEPTH LENGTH WEIGHT
TWA 8” 8” 8” 7.13 LBS
TEMP . TWA L70/L90 DATA
L70 (64L - 1050mA) L90 (64L - 1050mA)
25°C 483,000 160,000
TWA LUMEN CHART
OPTIC PLATE PAINTED TO MATCH FIXTURE FINISH
TWA / 16L
TRAC  LUMEN CHART
PART NUMBER T2 LM/W BUG T3 LM/W BUG T4 LM/W BUG WATTS
TWA-16L-175-30K 774 77 765 77 799 80 10
TWA-16L-175-40K 799 80 791 79 825 83 10
TWA-16L-175-50K 833 73 816 82 850 85 10
TWA-16L-35-30K 1980 110 B1-U0-G1 1944 108 B1-U0-G1 2034 113 B1-U0-G1 18
TWA-16L-35-40K 2142 119 B1-U0-G1 2106 117 B1-U0-G1 2196 122 B1-U0-G1 18
TWA-16L-35-50K 2304 128 B1-U0-G1 2268 126 B1-U0-G1 2470 137 B1-U0-G1 18
TWA-16L-53-30K 2968 106 B1-U0-G1 2940 105 B1-U0-G1 3080 110 B1-U0-G1 28
TWA-16L-53-40K 3220 115 B1-U0-G1 3192 114 B1-U0-G1 3332 119 B1-U0-G1 28
TWA-16L-53-50K 3472 124 B1-U0-G1 3416 122 B1-U0-G1 3584 128 B1-U0-G1 28
TWA-16L-7-30K 3672 102 B1-U0-G1 3636 101 B1-U0-G1 3816 106 B1-U0-G1 36
TWA-16L-7-40K 3996 111 B1-U0-G1 3924 109 B1-U0-G1 4104 114 B1-U0-G1 36
TWA-16L-7-50K 4284 119 B1-U0-G1 4248 118 B1-U0-G1 4428 123 B1-U0-G1 36
TWA-16L-1-30K 5544 99 B1-U0-G1 5488 98 B1-U0-G1 5408 96 B1-U0-G1 56
TWA-16L-1-40K 6048 108 B1-U0-G1 5936 106 B1-U0-G1 5992 107 B1-U0-G2 56
TWA-16L-1-50K 6496 116 B1-U0-G1 6384 114 B1-U0-G1 6440 115 B1-U0-G2 56
Rotatable Optics (ROR) Rotated Right, (ROL) Rotated Left options available. Optics field and factory rotatable.
OPTICAL CONFIGURATIONS
55 
4471
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
45
72
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
46
73
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
47
74
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
48
75
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
49
76
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
 
50
77
 
 
 
 
The lights specified have full cutoff light shield, please find light fixture type ‘F1’ in 
the attached document.
 
 
All the lights that are 
labeled “Upgraded Light Pole” and Upgraded wall mounted light” are the existing lights that 
are being upgraded. The light fixture types are also shown on the site plan (A1, A2, W1).
51
78
w
w
e
t
fo
fo
t
fo
XXX
X
XXXXXXXXXXXX
X
X
X
X
XX
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
R/WR/WR/WR/WR/WR/WR/WR/WR/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
12'12'12'
231.7'
55'
26' 15'
18'18' 24'
34.66'
26'
26'
26'
5'
24'
5'
040'80'
SCALE: 1" = 40'
H
O
R
R
O
C
K
S
E
N
G
IN
E
E
R
S
PAINTBRUSH ROAD
JUSTICE CENTER ROAD
PROPOSED  BUILDING
ADDITION
PROPOSED CHAINLINK
SECURITY FENCE WITH
3 STRAND BARB WIRE
PDTT SERIES
SPEED GATE
PDTT SERIES
SPEED GATE
PROPOSED GRAVEL
TRAILER PARKING
PROPOSED DECORATIVE
SECURITY FENCE
PROPOSED DECORATIVE
SECURITY FENCE
www.horrocks.com
PROJECT NO. UT-8961-23
2162 West Grove Pkwy., Suite 400
Pleasant Grove, UT 84062
(801) 763-5100
PROPOSED CHAINLINK
SECURITY FENCE WITH
3 STRAND BARB WIRE
PROPOSED CHAINLINK
SECURITY FENCE WITH
3 STRAND BARB WIRE
PROPOSED ACCESS ROAD
TO PAINTBRUSH ROAD
PROPOSED ADA
PEDESTRIAN ROUTE
PROPOSED CHAINLINK
SECURITY FENCE WITH
3 STRAND BARB WIRE
N
Entrance Road and
Fencing Plan
OWNER PROJECT NO.:
GSBS PROJECT NO.:
ISSUED DATE:
REVISIONS:
GSBS
ARCHITECTS
375 WEST 200 SOUTH
SALT LAKE CITY, UT  84101
801.521.8600
801.521.7913
P
F
www.gsbsarchitects.com
C100
REV
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
CONDITIONAL USE PERMI
APPLICATION
SUMMIT COUNTY -
SO/AO
EXPANSION
BUILDING
6300 Justice Center Rd, Park City, UT 84098
2/9/24
2021.034.06
PROPOSED
MONUMENT
SIGN
PROPOSED
"STOP" SIGN
SIGHT TRIANGLE
PROPOSED STOP BAR
PROTECT WELL
HEAD IN PLACE
52
79
SD SD
SD
SD
HWM
100YR HWM 100YR HWM
100YR
HWM 100YR HWM 100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YRHWM100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWMHWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM HWM
HWM HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
GB
>
> > > > >
SD
>
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD SD
SD
SD SD SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
> > SD
SD
SD
3'' W
4'' SD
4'' SD
CO
CO
CO
4'' SD
4'' SD
CO
CO
4'' SD
SD
SD
SD
SD SD
GGGGG
G
R/WR/WR/WR/WR/WR/WR/WR/WR/WR/WR/WR/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
sdsdsdsdsd
w
ssssssssssss
w
s
s
ss
ss
ss
ss
ss
ss
ss
ss
w
w
w
w
w
w
sd
sd
ss
ss
ss
e
t
fo
fo
t
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
gggggggg
g
gg
g
g
sd
sd
sd
sd
sd
sd
sd
sd
sdsd
sd
sdsd
sd
sd
TBC:6500.00
TBC:6501.90 TBC:6502.14
TBC:6499.06
TBC:6500.26
TBC:6501.22
TBC:6502.88
TBC:6502.72
0.69%
1.60%
1.25%
0.70%
1.98%
1.98%
EG:(6498.78)
(6490)
(6488)
(6489)
(6491)
(6492)
(6493)
(6494) (6490)
(6488)
(6489)
(6490)
(6490)
(6489)
(6489)
(6491) (6491)
(6492)
(6490)
(6487)
(6488)
(6489)
(6491)
(6500
)
(6505
)
(6510
)
(6515
)
(6499)
(6501)
(6502)
(6503)
(6504)(6506)(6507)(6508)(6509)(6511)(6512)(6513)(6514)(6516)
FF:6497.50
TC:6497.50
TC:6497.50
TC:6497.50
1.84%
1.90%
TBC:6494.30
TBC:6494.80
TBC:6495.23
TBC:6495.75
TBC:6495.36
TBC:6494.64
TBC:6495.80
TBC:6496.34
TBC:6496.58
TBC:6497.54
TBC:6497.76
TBC:6498.07
TBC:6498.29
1.85%
1.08% 1.00%
FG:6497.00
FG:6497.00
TC:6497.50
1.48%
1.49%
1.10%
1.09%
1.26%
1.15% TC:6495.84
1.30%
2.00%
0.99%TC:6496.33TC:6497.00
TC:6496.82
TC:6496.60
TC:6497.42
TC:6497.92
TBC:6497.21
3.56%
1.99%
TBC:6498.44
TBC:6498.83
TBC:6500.31
TBC:6500.56
TBC:6500.27
TBC:6500.23
TBC:6500.08
TC:6498.85
TC:6499.17
TC:6499.52
TC:6499.43
TC:6499.34
TC:6499.95
TC:6497.50TC:6497.50
TC:6497.33
1.79%
TC:6497.92TC:6497.30
0.42% 1.85%
TBC:6495.68
TBC:6496.56
TBC:6493.97
1.96%
2.31%
TBC:6494.63
TBC:6494.99
TBC:6495.35
TBC:6495.82
TBC:6495.29
TC:6498.85
TC:6499.04
TC:6499.17
TC:6498.75
4.49%
TC:6498.71
TC:6499.10TC:6497.62
TC:6499.02
TC:6497.62
TC:6498.90
TC:6497.50
TC:6497.30
TBC:6497.51
FL:6496.80
FL:6496.10
FL:6496.10
FL:6495.90
TBC:6497.05
TBC:6496.39
TBC:6495.81
FG:6507.34
FG:6506.24
FG:6503.19
1.27%
2.00%
6510
6515
6515
6510
6505
6506
6507
6504
6505
(6505
)
(6510
)
(6515
)
(6520
)
(6525
)
(6501)(6502)(6503)(6504)
(6506)(6507)(6508)(6509)
(6511)(6512)
(6513)
(6514)
(6516)
(6517)
(6518)
(6519)
(6521)
(6522)
(6523)
(6524)
(6526)
(6500
)
(6505
)
(6497)
(6498)
(6499)
(6501)(6502)
(6503)
(6504)
(6506)
(6495
)
(6493)
(6494)
(6496)
(6497)
(6495)
(6493)
(6494)
(6496)
(6495
)
(6500
)
(6494)
(6496)
(6497)
(6498)
(6499)
(6495
)
(6493)
(6494)
(6496)
(6496)
(6496)
(6497)
(6498)
(6499)
(6496)(6497)(6498)
(6491)
(6492)
(6493)
(6494)
(6495
)
(6491)
(6492)
(6493)
(6494)
2.10%
2.03%
3.0:1
2.0:1
2.1:1
FG:6504.39 2.00%
2.0:1
(6505
)
(6505
)
(6506)
(6507)
(6508)
(6509)
(6510)
(6510
)
(6505
)
(6500
)
(6499)
(6500)
(6501)
(6502)
(6504)
(6505
)
(6512)
(6511)
(6505
)
(6510
)
(6514)
(6520)
(6525
)
(6518)
(6519)
(6521)
(6522)
(6523)
(6524)
(6517)
(6516)
(6515
)
(6514)
(6490
)
(6495
)
(6500
)
(6487)
(6488)
(6489)
(6491)
(6492)
(6493)
(6494)
(6496)
(6497)
(6498)
(6499)
TBC:6500.57
TBC:6498.94 TBC:6500.12
TBC:6496.86
TBC:6497.16
TBC:6496.29
TBC:6495.44
1.05%
1.14%
1.08%
1.49%
1.19%
3.49%
2.50%
2.04%
TC:6497.50
1.35%
0.50%
1.99%
2.41%
0.70%
0.69%
2.78%
2.03%
1.10%
1.24%
TC:6495.00
2.26%
1.49%
1.20%
1.59%
0.89%
1.68%
1.02%
1.49%
FL:6497.31
TC:6497.04
1.50%1.43%
1.16%
6500
6496
6497
6498
6499
6501
6502
6498
6500
6499
6496
6497
6498
6504
6502
6499
6500
6501
6502
6495
6495
6496
64966497
6497
6498
6498
6498
6497
6497
6495
6496
6496
6497
6497
6497
6497
6498
6498
6498
10.38'
PAINTBRUSH ROAD
PROPOSED  BUILDING
ADDITION
JUSTICE CENTER ROAD
EXISTING  BUILDING
EXISTING  BUILDING
030'60'
SCALE: 1" = 30'
H
O
R
R
O
C
K
S
E
N
G
IN
E
E
R
S N
www.horrocks.com
PROJECT NO. UT-8961-23
2162 West Grove Pkwy., Suite 400
Pleasant Grove, UT 84062
(801) 763-5100
Grading Plan
OWNER PROJECT NO.:
GSBS PROJECT NO.:
ISSUED DATE:
REVISIONS:
GSBS
ARCHITECTS
375 WEST 200 SOUTH
SALT LAKE CITY, UT  84101
801.521.8600
801.521.7913
P
F
www.gsbsarchitects.com
G100
REV
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
CONDITIONAL USE PERMI
APPLICATION
SUMMIT COUNTY -
SO/AO
EXPANSION
BUILDING
6300 Justice Center Rd, Park City, UT 84098
2/9/24
2021.034.06
DETENTION POND
TO REMAIN
DETENTION POND TO BE
REMOVED AND STORM WATER
TO BE DIRECTED TO DETENTION
POND TO THE NORTH
EXPANDED DETENTION POND PER FJ
GILLMOR SUBDIVISION PROJECT
RE-LOCATED GAS
LINE TO BE 10 FT
FROM THE
PROPOSED BUILDING
53
80
 
 
 
 
 
Drainage Calculations for 
 
Gillmor Subdivision – Paintbrush Road Extension 
 
Summit County, Utah 
 
October, 2023
54
81
Paintbrush Road Extension Drainage Plan 
2 
 
 
 
 
This report will provide the results and methods use d to calculate the storm water flows, detention 
basin storage requirements, pipe sizing, and determine the drainage plan for the Gilmour Subdivision 
Paintbrush Road Extension located in Summit County, Utah. This storm drainage analysis also accounts for 
the expansion of the Justice Center for the Sherrif/Attorney building and increased parking in the west parking 
lot. This analysis sizes the storm drain pipes for the 10-year storm. The Rational Method was used to calculate 
the peak flow for the sub basins for sizing the storm drain infrastructure. The detention pond sizes are based on 
the increase of stormwater flow from the pre-development conditions to the post-development conditions 
using the 100-year storm event.   
 
General Information  
The overall study area for this report is approximately 9.5 acres. A roadway is being designed with 
development in the Justice Center parking lot as shown in the attached sub basin map. The drainage area from 
the lot to the north of the Justice Center that historically flows to the new north pond was included in the study 
analysis. The average rational method coefficient was calculated as 0.66. Rainfall intensities for the site were 
obtained from NOAA Atlas 14 provided in Appendix F of Summit County Ordinance NO. 381-A and are 
shown in Table 1 in Appendix A.  
 
Method and Results 
Hydrologic Analysis 
The Rational Equation (Q = CiA) was used to estimate the storm water flow in the study area. The 
study area was divided into 12 sub basins for calculating the required pipe sizes. These basins can be seen in 
the first attached figure. The pipes were sized for the 10-year storm.  
Rainfall intensities were taken from the NOAA Atlas 14 for the study area. A copy of the precipitation 
data is provided in Appendix A Table 1. A minimum 5-minute time of concentration was used for each basin. 
The time of concentration was calculated using the following equation found in Appendix F of Summit County 
Ordinance NO. 381-A: 
  1.8 ∗ 1.1  	
.
// 
 
The rational coefficient was calculated for the basins based on the ratio of landscape (C = 0.2) and 
hardscape (C = 0.9) areas. Within the project area the time of concentration for above ground flow and flow 
through pipes in each developed basin was calculated as 5 minutes or less. The USGS web soil survey was 
used to determine the predevelopment rational coefficient. For the project area the AutoCAD water drop 
analysis was used to determine the longest watercourse in the existing state. An average slope along the 
longest watercourse was determined using the existing surface within AutoCAD. The total allowable discharge 
was calculated for the site using the rational equation. The flow path and slopes for time of concentration 
calculation are shown in the 2
nd through the 4th attached figures. Sub basin and pipe calculations can be seen in 
Tables 2 and 3 in Appendix A.  
 
 
 
55
82
Paintbrush Road Extension Drainage Plan 
3 
 
 
Hydraulic Analysis 
The storage requirement for the detention pond was calculated using the methods described in 
Appendix F of Summit County Ordinance NO. 381-A. The pond retention volume is equal to the difference 
between pre and post development storm volumes associated with a storm even of 0.5” in 1 hour for the 
roadway area. The pond includes an additional 15% volume to accommodate sediment deposition. The storm 
volumes are calculated using the following equation: 
  	 
 
C is the dimensionless runoff coefficient. The overall post development C value was calculated as 0.66 
and the predevelopment C value was determined to be 0.30 using the web soil survey. I is equal to 0.5” per 
hour which is equivalent to 0.042 ft/hr. T is the storm duration which is 1 hour. A is the basin area in square 
feet. The calculated retention volume is 6,271 cubic feet. The pond is designed to have 7481 CF of retention 
volume. The pond includes an additional 15% volume to account for sedimentation. The total volume of the 
pond, including the sedimentation volume, is 13,991 CF. The orifice plate for the pond is 21-inches to allow 
the calculated discharge rate of 14.77 CFS. Pond calculations can be seen in Tables 4 through 7 in Appendix 
A.  
 
TSS Removal Rate 
In calculating the required TSS removal rates, the areas within the road right-of-way and the expansion 
of the Justice Center building and parking lot were included. The % impervious for the right-of-way was 
calculated to be 65%, therefore a TSS removal efficiency requirement of 70% was determined to be needed. 
The discharge point for the roads and Justice Center site is Pond 1. A The pond is using an infiltration basin as 
its TSS. The combined rate for the discharge point is 95%. See Table 8 for TSS rate calculations.  
 
Results 
It has been determined that the recommended drainage system will convey the 10-year storm event 
through the piping system and the detention basin and chambers will have enough storage for the difference in 
runoff from the 100-year previous zoning requirement and the post-developed site. Detention basin volume 
calculations are in the attached calculation tables. Pond calculations are shown in Table 6 in Appendix A.  
 
  
56
83
Paintbrush Road Extension Drainage Plan 
4 
 
 
APPENDIX A 
 
Table 1: Rainfall Data 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Basin characteristics and 10-year peak flow values: 
basin c i A (FT2) a (ACRES Q 
1 0.30 2.48 462641.1 10.621 7.902 
2 0.30 2.48 45582.3 1.046 0.779 
3 0.78 2.48 26805.0 0.615 1.194 
4 0.75 2.48 30995.0 0.712 1.320 
5 0.73 2.48 12226.0 0.281 0.506 
6 0.69 2.48 15560.0 0.357 0.614 
7 0.90 2.48 4318.6 0.099 0.221 
8 0.20 2.48 5247.6 0.120 0.060 
9 0.82 2.48 131227.7 3.013 6.140 
10 0.61 2.48 159194.7 3.655 5.538 
11 0.90 2.48 18495.9 0.425 0.948 
12 0.30 2.48 57974.0 1.331 0.990 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOAA ATLAS 14 POINT PRECIPITATION FREQUENCY ESTIMATES 
Park City Radio, Utah 
   10 Year 25 YR  50 YR 100 YR 
Hr Min in/hr in/hr in/hr in/hr 
0.08 5 3.26 4.36 5.36 6.56 
0.17 10 2.48 3.32 4.09 5 
0.25 15 2.05 2.74 3.38 4.13 
0.50 30 1.38 1.85 2.27 2.78 
1.00 60 0.85 1.14 1.41 1.72 
2.00 2hr 0.5 0.65 0.78 0.95 
3.00 3Hr 0.36 0.45 0.54 0.64 
6.00 6Hr 0.22 0.27 0.31 0.36 
12.00 12Hr 0.14 0.17 0.19 0.21 
24.00 24Hr 0.09 0.1 0.11 0.13 
57
84
Paintbrush Road Extension Drainage Plan 
5 
 
 
Table 3: Pipe Calculations 
Pipe 
Required 
Flow 
(cfs) 
Calculated 
Flow 
(cfs) 
Pipe 
Slope 
(%) 
Pipe 
Size 
(in) 
Contributing 
Areas 
1 11.07 56.33 6.20%  24 
B1 pre dev 100 
yr 
2 11.67 22.62 1.00%  24 B3, P1 
3 12.99 34.53 2.33%  24 B4, P2 
4 1.96 4.57 0.50%  15 
B2 pre dev 100 
yr 
5 2.47 4.57 0.50%  15 B5, P4 
6 0.22 4.57 0.50%  15 B7 
7 3.30 7.43 0.50%  18 B6, P5, P6 
8 16.29 31.24 0.58%  30 P3, P7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
58
85
Paintbrush Road Extension Drainage Plan 
6 
 
 
Table 5: Pond Calculations  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9.5 acres
0.66
Discharge Rate: 0 cfs/acre
14.77 cfs
1.40 ft
21.4 in (diameter)
21.4 in (diameter)
361.34 in2
14.77 cfs
Time Intensity C*AREA Accumulated 
Storage Discharge Accumulate
d Discharge
Required 
Storage
(min) (in/hr) (acres) (ft3) (cfs) (ft3) (ft 3)
5 6.56 6.29 12,377 14.77 4,432 7,945
10 5 6.29 18,867 14.77 8,863 10,004
15 4.13 6.29 23,377 14.77 13,295 10,081
30 2.78 6.29 31,471 14.77 26,590 4,880
60 1.72 6.29 38,942 14.77 53,181 0
120 0.95 6.29 43,018 14.77 106,362 0
180 0.64 6.29 43,470 14.77 159,543 0
360 0.36 6.29 48,904 14.77 319,086 0
720 0.21 6.29 57,055 14.77 638,171 0
1440 0.13 6.29 70,639 14.77 1,276,342 0
10,081 ft
3
Height of Water Above the 
Orifice:
Required Pond Volume:
Orifice Size if Known:
Calculated Orifice Size:
Orifice Area:
Orifice Q:
Post Development 100-year
Drainage Basin Area:
Run Off Coefficient:
Pond Discharge:
Name of Project:
59
86
Paintbrush Road Extension Drainage Plan 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6: Basin 1  
 
Qp (cfs) 11.07 
C 0.30 
A (sq ft) 462641 
A (acres) 10.6 
D (ft) 1296.6 
S (%) 2.7 
T (min) 37.5 
Storm Frequency 100 
I (in/hr) 2.78 
Cf 1.25 
 
 
 
Table 7: Basin 2 
Qp (cfs) 1.96 
C 0.30 
A (sq ft) 45582 
A (acres) 1.0 
D (ft) 161.0 
S (%) 8.3 
T (min) 9.1 
Storm 
Frequecny 100 
I (in/hr) 5 
Cf 1.25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
60
87
Paintbrush Road Extension Drainage Plan 
8 
 
 
Table 8: TTS Removal Rate Calculations 
 
Discharge Points 
 Pond 
Contributing 
Basins  
3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 
10, 11, 12 
Contributing 
Area (SF) 
                   
462,044  
Percentage 
of Area 100% 
TSS Removal 
Method Infiltration Basin 
TSS 
Percentage  95% 
Total 
Treatment 95% 
 
 
61
88
sd
sd
6300 JUSTICE
CENTER ROAD
sd
sd
w
t
fo
fo
t
sd
fo
6300 JUSTICE
CENTER ROAD
24'
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YRHWM
HWM
BASIN 8
BASIN 7
PIPE 1
PIPE 2 PIPE 3
PIPE 5
PIPE 7PIPE 4
BASIN
12
BASIN 1
BASIN
2
BASIN
9
BASIN
10
BASIN
11
BASIN 3
BASIN 4
BASIN 5 BASIN 6
PIPE 6
PIPE 8
Q:\!2021\UT-LD-3682-21 Summit County Land & Justice Campus\Project Data\03 Engineering\3.01 Drainage\road extension\ut-ld-3682-21 drainage calcs - pipes - phase 2.dwg Caitlyn Nielsen 10/19/2023 12:18 PM
WARNING
0 1/2 1
IF THIS BAR DOES NOT
MEASURE 1" THEN DRAWING
IS NOT TO SCALE
www.horrocks.com PAGE
2162 West Grove Pkwy., Suite 400
Pleasant Grove, UT 84062
(801) 763-5100 PROJ. NO:
DRAWING INFO
DATE
SCALE
REV # DATE
*SEE 2nd SHEET FOR LISTING
10/19/23
PAINTBRUSH ROAD EXTENSION
SUB BASIN MAP
1" = 300'
EXH
UT-4956-22
01
H
O R R O C K
S
E
N G I N E E R
SN
62
89
R/W R/W R/W R/W R/W R/W R/W R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
bel
bel
bel
bel
bel
bel
bel
bel
bel
bel
bel
bel
bel
bel
bel
bel
belbelbelbelbelbelbelbelbelbelbelbelbelbelbelbelbelbelbelbelbelbelbelbelbel
e
e
s
ss
ss
ss
ss
ss
ss
ss
ss
ss
ss
ss
ss
ss
ss
ss
LOD
LOD
LOD
LODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LODLODLOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD
+-5
-88
+-5
-00
+-4 -00 +-3 -00 +-2 -0012'' W
12'' W
12'' W
12'' W
12'' W
12'' W
12'' W
12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W
12'' W12'' W
SDSD SD
>
>
GB: -5+62.12
EVC: -4+24.34
BVC: -5+24.34
GB: -5+65.12
PC: -4+97.53
PT: -4+29.46
(6510)
(6515)
(6509)
(6511)
(6512)
(6513)
(6514)
(6516)
(6517)
(6518)
(6515)
(6516)
(6517)
(6495)
(6500)
(6505)
(6510)
(6515)
(6493)(6494)
(6496)(6497)(6498)(6499)
(6501)(6502)(6503)(6504)
(6506)(6507)(6508)(6509)
(6511)(6512)(6513)(6514)
(6493)
(6493)(6494)
(6495)(6496)
(6495)
(6494)
(6493)
(6495)
(6492)
(6492)
(6492)
(6493)
(6494)
(6490)
(6489)
(6491)
(6492)
(6492)
(6491)
(6491)
(6492)
(6492)
(6493)
(6493)
(6491)(6491)
(6492)
(6490)
(6490)
(6495)
(6500)
(6505)
(6489)
(6489)
(6491)
(6491)
(6492)
(6493)
(6494)
(6496)
(6497)
(6498)
(6499)
(6501)
(6502)
(6503)
(6504)
(6506)
(6507)
(6508)
6495
6493
6494
6496 6497 6498
6495
6490 6491 6492 6493 6494
6495
6492
6493
6494
6496
6497
64986495
6492
6493
6494
125 LF OF 12" PVC C900
R37.5'
R37.5'
LIMITS OF
DISTURBANCE
LIMITS OF
DISTURBANCEPROPERTY
BOUNDARY
SILVER CREEK DRIVE
TBC:6498.64
TBC:6498.64
TBC:6497.16
TBC:6497.16
TBC:6495.67
TBC:6495.67
TBC:6495.31
TBC:6495.31
TBC:6493.77
TBC:6493.77
TBC:6493.11
TBC:6493.11
TA:6495.55
TA:6493.35
2.00%2.00%
TBC:6492.86
TBC:6492.85
TA:6492.04
EG:(6492.03)
EG:(6492.26)
EG:(6492.45)
TA:6492.26
FL:6492.16
TA:6492.45
FL:6492.35
FL:6491.94
TA:6492.48
TA:6492.19
APPROXIMATE LOCATION OF
EXISTING WATER MAIN,
CONTRACTOR TO VERIFY
LOCATION AND SIZE PRIOR TO
STARTING CONSTRUCTION
81 LF OF 18" SD @ 0.49% 183 LF OF 18" SD @ 0.50%
STA: -4+48.91
SDMH-11 (48" DIA.)
RIM: 6494.20
INV IN: 6489.12 15" (NW)
INV OUT: 6489.02 15" (SE)
STA: -2+95.92
SDMH-10 (48" DIA.)
RIM: 6496.92
INV IN: 6488.21 18" (NW)
INV OUT: 6488.21 18" (SE)
136 LF OF 12" PVC C900 275 LF OF 12" PVC C900
80.38' ROW
45'
5'
5'
10'
END OF
SIDEWALK
CONNECT EXISTING PIPE
TO NEW MANHOLE
EX. FL: 6488.21
CONNECT EXISTING PIPE
TO NEW MANHOLE
EX. FL: 6489.02
0.66%
1.68%
3.0:1
3.0:1
3.0:1
3.0:1
INSTALL 6' WIDE WATERWAY
PER APWA PLAN 211
TA:6495.91 TA:6497.40 TA:6498.88
TA:6494.02
6500
6505
6510
6515
6498
6499
6501
6502
6503
6504
6506
6507
6508
6509
6511
6512
6513
6514
6516
6517
6518
6519
6496 6497
3.0:1
3.0:1
2.89%
1.48%
2.00%
1.99%
77 LF OF 15" SD @ 0.55%
STA: -3+76.21
SDMH-17 (60" DIA.)
RIM: 6495.72
INV IN: 6488.60 15" (NW)
INV IN: 6492.60 18" (SW)
INV OUT: 6488.60 18" (SE)
15 LF OF 18" SD @ -6.86%
STA: -3+76.21
SDCI-21
GRATE: 6495.69
INV IN: 6491.71 18" (SW)
INV OUT: 6491.61 18" (NE)
48 LF OF 18" SD @ 1.00%
STA: -3+76.21
SDCI-22
GRATE: 6495.69
INV OUT: 6492.19 18" (NE)
TBC:6496.02
STA: -3+50.21  28.00' RT
FIRE HYDRANT
2.00%
2.00%
CONSTRUCT 12" WATER SERVICE
TO LOT WITH VALVE, CAP SERVICE
FOR FUTURE CONNECTION PER
M.R.W. STANDARDS
STA: -5+15.28
SDCI-25
GRATE: 6493.04
INV OUT: 6489.84 15" (NE)
49 LF OF 15" SD @ 0.50%
STA: -5+15.28
SDCI-26
GRATE: 6493.04
INV IN: 6489.60 15" (SW)
INV OUT: 6489.50 15" (SE)
INV OUT: 6489.50 15" (N)
76 LF OF 15" SD @ 0.50%
FL:6489.00
FL:6489.14
SDFE-27
INV OUT: 6489.15 15" (S)
0.49%
35 LF OF 15" SD @ 1.00%
HOT TAP EXISTING WATER LINE,
LONG LAY LENGTH, HIGH PRESSURE
STAINLESS TAPPING SLEEVE
TBC:6496.02
TBC:6493.37
TBC:6493.37
PAINTBRUSH ROAD PROFILE
-5+87.64 to -1+75.00
6475
6480
6485
6490
6495
6500
6505
6510
6475
6480
6485
6490
6495
6500
6505
6510
-5+87.64
6492.25
-5+75 -5+50
6492.50
6492.61
6493.33
6497.93
-5+25 -5+00
6501.72
6494.02
6494.61
6500.25
-4+75 -4+50
6499.52
6495.12
6495.54
6499.57
-4+25 -4+00
6499.95
6495.91
6496.28
6500.25
-3+75 -3+50
6500.37
6496.65
6497.03
6500.40
-3+25 -3+00
6500.29
6497.40
6497.77
6500.17
-2+75 -2+50
6499.87
6498.14
6498.51
6499.37
-2+25 -2+00
6498.87
6498.88
-1+75
6499.19
6499.26
GB: -5+68.12
ELEV:  6492.26
GB: -5+62.12
ELEV:  6492.26
PC: -4+97.53
PT: -4+29.46
LVC: 100.00 LF
K: 70.79
PVI STA: -4+74.34
PVI ELEV: 6494.80
BVCS: -5+24.34
BVCE: 6493.35
EVCS: -4+24.34
EVCE: 6495.55
FINISHED GRADE AT CENTERLINE
EXISTING GROUND AT CENTERLINE
6' MIN. COVER
81 LF OF 18" SD @ 0.49%
183 LF OF 18" SD @ 0.50%
STA: -4+48.91 (-39.51, LT)
SDMH-11
RIM: 6494.20
INV IN: 6489.12 - 15" (NW)
INV OUT: 6489.02 - 15" (SE)
STA: -2+95.92 (-38.38, LT)
SDMH-10
RIM: 6496.92
INV IN: 6488.21 - 18" (NW)
INV OUT: 6488.21 - 18" (SE)
125 LF OF 12" PVC C900
136 LF OF 12" PVC C900
275 LF OF 12" PVC C900
2.90%
1.49%
77 LF OF 15" SD @ 0.55%
STA: -3+76.21 (-38.38, LT)
SDMH-17
RIM: 6495.72
INV IN: 6488.60 - 15" (NW)
INV IN: 6492.60 - 18" (SW)
INV OUT: 6488.60 - 18" (SE)
76 LF OF 15" SD @ 0.50%
STA: -5+15.28 (-24.00, LT)
SDCI-26
GRATE: 6493.04
INV IN: 6489.60 - 15" (SW)
INV OUT: 6489.50 - 15" (SE)
INV OUT: 6489.50 - 15" (N)
Q:\!2021\UT-LD-3682-21 Summit County Land & Justice Campus\Project Data\02 CAD\2.03 Sheet Files\Construction Drawings\UT-LD-3682 PP6 RD EXT.dwg  - C8.1 -   10/18/2023  03:47pm,  justin.smith
1 5
REVISIONS
REV # DATE
DRAWING INFO
DATE
DESIGNED
DRAWN
*SEE GENERAL NOTES SHEET
WARNING
0 1 2
IF THIS BAR DOES NOT
MEASURE 2" THEN
DRAWING IS NOT TO SCALE
www.horrocks.com
PAGE
C
PROJECT
CHECKED
D
B
A
#
2 3 4
4905 South 1500 West, Suite 100
Riverdale, UT 84405
(801) 621-1025
9803098-2202
PRICE
U
PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER
TO F
AH
ETATS 6/23/22
TREVOR N.
UT-LD-3682
TP
JS
JS
06/23/2022
0 20' 40'
SCALE: 1" = 20'
H
O
R R O C K
S
E
N
G I N E E R
S
N
CONSTRUCTION KEYNOTES
CONSTRUCT 2.5' WIDE TYPE M1 CURB AND GUTTER, SEE DETAIL "B1" SHEET C6.1
CONSTRUCT 5.0' WIDE CONCRETE SIDEWALK PER APWA PLAN 231, SEE SHEET C6.1
CONSTRUCT TEMPORARY GRAVEL TURN AROUND (6" GRAVEL BASE COURSE OVER 8"
GRAVEL SUBBASE)
CONSTRUCT MID-BLOCK ADA RAMP PER APWA PLAN 236.1, SEE SHEET C6.1
CONSTRUCT KEYSTONE BLOCK WALL, SEE DETAILS SHEET C6.5
CONSTRUCT DRIVE APPROACH WITH 8" THICK CONCRETE IN THE PARK STRIPE AND 8"
THICK SIDEWALK
INSTALL W-BEAM GUARDRAIL PER DETAILS ON SHEETS C6.6 & C6.7
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
WATER KEYNOTES
CUT IN "T" TO EXISTING 12" D.I.P. PER MOUNTAIN REGIONAL WATER STANDARDS.
CONTRACTOR TO VERIFY LOCATION PRIOR TO STARTING CONSTRUCTION
INSTALL FIRE HYDRANT PER M.R.W. DWG. 5, SEE SHEET C6.1
INSTALL 12" WATER MAIN PER M.R.W. DWG. 1, SEE SHEET C6.1
INSTALL 12" WATER MAIN FITTING AND THRUST BLOCK PER M.R.W. DWG. 7, SEE
SHEET C6.1
INSTALL COMBINATION AIR RELEASE VALVE PER M.R.W. DWG. 8, SEE SHEET C6.1
INSTALL VALVE IN ASPHALT AND EXTEND 12" PIPE 5' WITH STUB, CAP, AND THRUST
BLOCK TO END OF ROADWAY IMPROVEMENTS FOR FUTURE CONNECTION PER
M.R.W. STANDARDS
INSTALL 12" GATE VALVE PER M.R.W. DWG. 6, SEE SHEET C6.1
CONSTRUCT WATER MAIN LOOP PER M.R.W. STANDARDS
CONSTRUCT 8" WATER SERVICE TO LOT WITH VALVE, CAP SERVICE FOR FUTURE
CONNECTION PER M.R.W. STANDARDS
INSTALL 2" FOAM BOARD 10' EACH SIDE OF STORM DRAIN PIPE, INSTALL 2 LAYERS AT
48" PIPE CROSSING
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
SEWER KEYNOTES
CONNECT NEW 8" SEWER TO EXISTING SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE, CORE DRILL
MANHOLE AND INSTALL MANHOLE BOOT (SBWRD INSPECTOR MUST WITNESS CORING
ACTIVITIES), FORM SMOOTH TRANSITION INTO EXISTING CHANNEL AND READJUST
MANHOLE PER SBWRD DETAIL MH-10, SHEET C6.3, MANHOLE ENTRY MUST MEET
OSHA AND SBWRD CONFINED SPACE ENTRY REQUIREMENTS. CONTRACTOR TO FIELD
VERIFY LOCATION AND ELEVATION PRIOR TO STARTING CONSTRUCTION
INSTALL NEW PRECAST SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE PER SNYDERVILLE BASIN WATER
RECLAMATION DISTRICT DETAIL MH-01, SEE SHEET C6.3
INSTALL NEW 8" PVC SDR-35 SANITARY SEWER MAIN PER SNYDERVILLE BASIN WATER
RECLAMATION DISTRICT DETAIL PI-01, SEE SHEET C6.3
INSTALL NEW 6" PVC SDR-35 SANITARY SEWER SERVICE AT 2.0% MIN. SLOPE PER
SNYDERVILLE BASIN WATER RECLAMATION DISTRICT DETAIL LAT-01, SHEET C6.3
INSTALL TRENCH DIKE PER SNYDERVILLE BASIN WATER RECLAMATION DISTRICT
DETAIL PI-03, SHEET C6.3
INSTALL NEW 4" PVC SDR-35 SANITARY SEWER SERVICE AT 2.0% MIN. SLOPE PER
SNYDERVILLE BASIN WATER RECLAMATION DISTRICT DETAIL LAT-01, SHEET C6.3
51
52
53
54
55
56
STORM WATER KEYNOTES
INSTALL NEW RCP OR APPROVED EQUAL BY THE ENGINEER PER APWA PLAN 382, SEE
SHEET C6.2
INSTALL NEW SINGLE GRATE CATCH BASIN PER APWA PLAN 315.1, SEE SHEET C6.2
INSTALL NEW DOUBLE GRATE CATCH BASIN PER APWA PLAN 315.2, SEE SHEET C6.2
INSTALL NEW COMBINATION CATCH BASIN AND CLEANOUT BOX PER APWA PLAN 316,
SEE SHEET C6.2
INSTALL NEW PIPE OUTFALL PER APWA PLAN 323.1, SEE SHEET C6.2, INSTALL RIP RAP
APRON, IF REQUIRED, PER DETAIL D1 SHEET C6.7
INSTALL NEW PRECAST MANHOLE PER APWA PLAN 341.2, SEE SHEET C6.2
INSTALL NEW 2'X2' PRECAST BOX PER APWA PLAN 332, SEE SHEET C6.2, INSTALL 8"
FIBER ROLL ON BOTH SIDES OF INLET PER DETAIL A3 SHEET C6.4
INSTALL BMP SNOUT OVER OUTLET PIPE PER DETAIL B4, SHEET C6.4
INSTALL NEW 3'X3' PRECAST BOX PER APWA PLAN 332, SEE SHEET C6.2, INSTALL 8"
FIBER ROLL ON BOTH SIDES OF INLET PER DETAIL A3 SHEET C6.4
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
Know what's below.
Call before you dig.
R
MISCELLANEOUS KEYNOTES
SIGHT TRIANGLEA
NOTES:
1. INSTALL EROSION CONTROL BLANKETS ON SLOPES STEEPER THAN 3:1, DOUBLE
JUTE NET WITH COCONUT FIBERS
2. INSTALL NATIVE SEED MIX IN PARKSTRIPS  AND ALL OTHER DISTURBED AREAS, HECP
TYPE 1, SEE SHEET C6.4, DETAIL B2 FOR SEED MIX
3. SEE SHEETS C5.1 & C5.2 FOR SIGNING AND STRIPING.
4. SEE SHEET C4.0 FOR OVERALL UTILITY PLAN.
5. CONSTRUCTION OF THE WASTEWATER SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS SHALL CONFORM
TO THE SBWRD DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES, DESIGN STANDARDS AND
CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
6. TRENCH BACKFILL SHALL BE PLACED SUCH THAT SETTLEMENT OF THE PAVED
AREAS OVER THE WASTEWATER LINE TRENCHES DOES NOT OCCUR. THE
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY NECESSARY COMPACTION TESTING SHALL BE WITH THE
DEVELOPER AND THEIR CONTRACTOR.
7. BACKFILL ABOVE SEWER LINE WITH CLEAN, UNCONTAMINATED SOILS.
8. IN LOT 2, TEST SOIL AT THE BOTTOM OF THE TRENCH TO VERIFY THAT SOIL IS NOT
CONTAMINATED. IF NECESSARY, REMOVE CONTAMINATED SOIL AND BACKFILL WITH
12" LIFTS COMPACTED TO 95%.
 
 
 
 
 
PLAN & PROFILE
FJ GILLMOR SUBDIVISION
SILVER CREEK DRIVE AND OLD HWY 40, SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
41
C8.1
MATCH LINE STA. -1+75
SEE SHEET C8.2
39 22.5°
38
38
37
39 12X12 TEE
38
1
1
2
7171
66 66 66
4
4 10/18/2023
42
71
66
67
67
45
39 6X12 TEE
42
66
66
67
67
66
70
63
90
R/W R/W R/W R/W R/W R/W R/W R/W R/W R/W R/W R/W R/W R/W R/W R/W R/W
R/W
R/WR/W
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
bel
belbelbelbel
bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel
bel bel LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD LOD LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LODLODLODLODLOD
LODLOD
LOD
LODLODLOD
LOD
LODLOD
LOD
LOD
LODLOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD LOD
LOD LOD LOD LOD
+-1 -00 +0 00 +1 00 +2 00
>>>>>>>>>>>
>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W 12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W12'' W
6'' W
SDSD
>
>>>>
>
>
>
>
>
6'' W 6'' W
12'' W 12'' W
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
BVC: 1+79.60
EVC: 1+69.42
BVC: -1+20.58
PI: 2+00.00
PC: 2+31.69
65156514
6516 6517 6518
6520
6517 6518 6519
65216522
FL:6510.02
2.0:1
PROPERTY
BOUNDARY
EXISTING
FENCE
RIPRAP OUTFALL
6' X 6' X 1' DEEP
D50 = 6"
(6505)(6505)(6510) (6510)
(6515)
(6515)
(6520)
(6506)(6506)(6507) (6507)(6508) (6508) (6509)(6509) (6511)(6511) (6512)(6512)
(6513)
(6513)
(6514)
(6514)
(6516)
(6516)
(6517)
(6518)
(6519)
(6491)(6491)
(6500)
(6498)
(6499)
(6501)
(6502)
(6505)
(6510)
(6515) (6520)
(6525)(6504) (6506) (6507) (6508) (6509) (6511)
(6512) (6513) (6514) (6516) (6517) (6518) (6519)
(6521) (6522) (6523) (6524) (6526) (6527)
(6528)
(6521)
(6522)
(6523)(6524)
(6525)
(6526)
(6527)
(6497)(6495)
(6492)(6490)(6488)
(6488)
(6489)(6491)
(6515)
(6514)
(6513)
(6512)
(6511)
(6510)
(6509)
(6508)
(6507)
(6506)
(6490)
(6490)
(6495)
(6500)
(6505)
(6489)
(6489)
(6491)
(6491)
(6492)
(6493)
(6494)
(6496)
(6497)
(6498)
(6499)
(6501)
(6502)
(6503)
(6504)
6500
6505
6510
6501 6502 6503 6504 6506 6507
6508 6509 6511
PROPERTY
BOUNDARY
EXISTING DITCH
FLOW LINE
EXISTING DITCH
FLOW LINE
EXISTING DITCH
FLOW LINE
1' WIDE DITCH
LIMITS OF
DISTURBANCE
LIMITS OF
DISTURBANCE
LIMITS OF
DISTURBANCE
1' WIDE DITCH
TA:6513.15TA:6512.44
TA:6500.07
TBC:6512.91
TBC:6512.91
TBC:6512.19
TBC:6512.19
7.04%
2.0:1
2.0:1
3.0:1
RIPRAP OUTFALL
6' X 6' X 1' DEEP
D50 = 6"
6495
6491
6492
6493
6494
6496
6497
6498
6499 6500
6501 6502 6504
6505 6506
6508 6509 6510 6511
6513
6515 6516 6517 6518 6519 6520 6521 6522 6523 6524 6525
6504
6506 6507 6508 6510
65136512 6514 6515 6516
6519 6520 6521
TBC:6499.82
TBC:6499.82
2.00%2.00%
1.48%
2.00%
2.00%
1.99%
1.99%
TA:6500.42 TA:6503.25
TBC:6503.01
TA:6508.01
TBC:6507.77
TBC:6514.28
TBC:6514.28
SDFE-21
INV IN: 6501.39 24" (NE)
24 LF OF 24" SD @ 6.20%
STA: -0+26.77
SDMH-12 (60" DIA.)
RIM: 6501.76
INV IN: 6497.26 24" (S)
INV OUT: 6497.16 24" (NW)
SDFE-22
INV OUT: 6487.12 30" (SW) STA: -1+12.97
SDMH-09 (60" DIA.)
RIM: 6499.65
INV IN: 6495.15 24" (SE)
INV IN: 6487.30 18" (NW)
INV OUT: 6487.30 30" (NE)
31 LF OF 30" SD @ 0.58%
183 LF OF 18" SD @ 0.50% 87 LF OF 24" SD @ 2.33%
FL:6512.07
FL:6512.07
80.38' ROW
45'
5'
5'
5'
5'
FL:6503.40
A
C6.0
PROPOSED
DITCH FLOW LINE
EG:(6500.41)
END OF
SIDEWALK
MATCH EXISTING DITCH,
GRADE AS NEEDED TO
ENSURE DRAINAGE FLOW
TBC:6500.18
TBC:6500.18 TBC:6503.01
TBC:6507.77
3.1:1
3.0:1
6501
6502
6503 6504
6505
6510
6515
6501
6502
6503
6504
6506
6507
6508
6509
6511
6512
6513
6514
6516
6490
6495
6486648764886489 6491649264936494 6496649764986499
6490 6486648764886489 3.1:1
3.3:1
6503
59 LF OF 24" SD @ 3.45%
48 LF OF 24" SD @ 1.00%
STA: 0+30.00
SDCI-24 (4'X4' BOX)
GRATE: 6503.90
INV IN: 6499.38 24" (SW)
INV OUT: 6499.28 24" (N)
STA: 0+30.00
SDCI-23 (4'X4' BOX)
GRATE: 6503.90
INV IN: 6499.96 24" (SW)
INV OUT: 6499.86 24" (NE)
275 LF OF 12" PVC C900 84 LF OF 12" PVC C900 174 LF OF 12" PVC C900 145 LF OF 12" PVC C900
STA: -0+83.84  28.00' LT
FIRE HYDRANT
STA: 1+65.76  28.00' RT
FIRE HYDRANT
CONSTRUCT 12" WATER SERVICE
TO LOT WITH VALVE, CAP SERVICE
FOR FUTURE CONNECTION PER
M.R.W. STANDARDS
CONSTRUCT 6" WATER
SERVICE TO LOT WITH
VALVE, CAP SERVICE FOR
FUTURE CONNECTION PER
M.R.W. STANDARDS
FUTURE DRIVE APPROACH
PAINTBRUSH ROAD PROFILE
-1+75.00 to 2+75.00
6485
6490
6495
6500
6505
6510
6515
6520
6485
6490
6495
6500
6505
6510
6515
6520
-1+75
6499.19
6499.26
-1+50
6499.79
6499.63
6500.00
6501.06
-1+25 -1+00
6501.85
6500.41
6500.94
6500.93
-0+75 -0+50
6501.36
6501.59
6502.36
6501.41
-0+25 0+00
6501.45
6503.25
6504.26
6502.81
0+25 0+50
6504.79
6505.39
6506.64
6506.78
0+75 1+00
6509.39
6508.01
6509.50
6511.60
1+25 1+50
6514.23
6511.10
6512.83
6517.07
1+75 2+00
6520.24
6514.52
6516.01
6523.16
2+25 2+50
6525.59
6517.29
2+75
6527.48
6518.37
7.04%
LVC: 290.00 LF
K: 52.19
PVI STA: 0+24.42
PVI ELEV: 6502.22
BVCS: -1+20.58
BVCE: 6500.07
EVCS: 1+69.42
EVCE: 6512.44
PVI STA: 2+74.60
PVI ELEV: 6519.84
BVCS: 1+79.60
BVCE: 6513.15
LVC: 190.00 LF
K: 30.33
PI: 2+00.00
PC: 2+31.69
1.49%
FINISHED GRADE AT CENTERLINE
EXISTING GROUND AT CENTERLINE
6' MIN. COVER
87 LF OF 24" SD @ 2.33%
183 LF OF 18" SD @ 0.50%
STA: -1+12.97 (-38.38, LT)
SDMH-09
RIM: 6499.65
INV IN: 6495.15 - 24" (SE)
INV IN: 6487.30 - 18" (NW)
INV OUT: 6487.30 - 30" (NE)
STA: -0+26.77 (-38.41, LT)
SDMH-12
RIM: 6501.76
INV IN: 6497.26 - 24" (S)
INV OUT: 6497.16 - 24" (NW)
145 LF OF 12" PVC C900
275 LF OF 12" PVC C900
174 LF OF 12" PVC C900
STA: 0+30.00 (-24.00, LT)
SDCI-24
GRATE: 6503.90
INV IN: 6499.38 - 24" (SW)
INV OUT: 6499.28 - 24" (N)
84 LF OF 12" PVC C900
2'
7.6' COVER
59 LF OF 24" SD @ 3.45%
6' MIN. COVER
Q:\!2021\UT-LD-3682-21 Summit County Land & Justice Campus\Project Data\02 CAD\2.03 Sheet Files\Construction Drawings\UT-LD-3682 PP6 RD EXT.dwg  - C8.2 -   10/18/2023  03:49pm,  justin.smith
1 5
REVISIONS
REV # DATE
DRAWING INFO
DATE
DESIGNED
DRAWN
*SEE GENERAL NOTES SHEET
WARNING
0 1 2
IF THIS BAR DOES NOT
MEASURE 2" THEN
DRAWING IS NOT TO SCALE
www.horrocks.com
PAGE
C
PROJECT
CHECKED
D
B
A
#
2 3 4
4905 South 1500 West, Suite 100
Riverdale, UT 84405
(801) 621-1025
9803098-2202
PRICE
U
PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER
TO F
AH
ETATS 6/23/22
TREVOR N.
UT-LD-3682
TP
JS
JS
06/23/2022
0 20' 40'
SCALE: 1" = 20'
H
O
R R O C K
S
E
N
G I N E E R
S
N
CONSTRUCTION KEYNOTES
CONSTRUCT 2.5' WIDE TYPE M1 CURB AND GUTTER, SEE DETAIL "B1" SHEET C6.1
CONSTRUCT 5.0' WIDE CONCRETE SIDEWALK PER APWA PLAN 231, SEE SHEET C6.1
CONSTRUCT TEMPORARY GRAVEL TURN AROUND (6" GRAVEL BASE COURSE OVER 8"
GRAVEL SUBBASE)
CONSTRUCT MID-BLOCK ADA RAMP PER APWA PLAN 236.1, SEE SHEET C6.1
CONSTRUCT KEYSTONE BLOCK WALL, SEE DETAILS SHEET C6.5
CONSTRUCT DRIVE APPROACH WITH 8" THICK CONCRETE IN THE PARK STRIPE AND 8"
THICK SIDEWALK
INSTALL W-BEAM GUARDRAIL PER DETAILS ON SHEETS C6.6 & C6.7
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
WATER KEYNOTES
CUT IN "T" TO EXISTING 12" D.I.P. PER MOUNTAIN REGIONAL WATER STANDARDS.
CONTRACTOR TO VERIFY LOCATION PRIOR TO STARTING CONSTRUCTION
INSTALL FIRE HYDRANT PER M.R.W. DWG. 5, SEE SHEET C6.1
INSTALL 12" WATER MAIN PER M.R.W. DWG. 1, SEE SHEET C6.1
INSTALL 12" WATER MAIN FITTING AND THRUST BLOCK PER M.R.W. DWG. 7, SEE
SHEET C6.1
INSTALL COMBINATION AIR RELEASE VALVE PER M.R.W. DWG. 8, SEE SHEET C6.1
INSTALL VALVE IN ASPHALT AND EXTEND 12" PIPE 5' WITH STUB, CAP, AND THRUST
BLOCK TO END OF ROADWAY IMPROVEMENTS FOR FUTURE CONNECTION PER
M.R.W. STANDARDS
INSTALL 12" GATE VALVE PER M.R.W. DWG. 6, SEE SHEET C6.1
CONSTRUCT WATER MAIN LOOP PER M.R.W. STANDARDS
CONSTRUCT 8" WATER SERVICE TO LOT WITH VALVE, CAP SERVICE FOR FUTURE
CONNECTION PER M.R.W. STANDARDS
INSTALL 2" FOAM BOARD 10' EACH SIDE OF STORM DRAIN PIPE, INSTALL 2 LAYERS AT
48" PIPE CROSSING
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
SEWER KEYNOTES
CONNECT NEW 8" SEWER TO EXISTING SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE, CORE DRILL
MANHOLE AND INSTALL MANHOLE BOOT (SBWRD INSPECTOR MUST WITNESS CORING
ACTIVITIES), FORM SMOOTH TRANSITION INTO EXISTING CHANNEL AND READJUST
MANHOLE PER SBWRD DETAIL MH-10, SHEET C6.3, MANHOLE ENTRY MUST MEET
OSHA AND SBWRD CONFINED SPACE ENTRY REQUIREMENTS. CONTRACTOR TO FIELD
VERIFY LOCATION AND ELEVATION PRIOR TO STARTING CONSTRUCTION
INSTALL NEW PRECAST SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE PER SNYDERVILLE BASIN WATER
RECLAMATION DISTRICT DETAIL MH-01, SEE SHEET C6.3
INSTALL NEW 8" PVC SDR-35 SANITARY SEWER MAIN PER SNYDERVILLE BASIN WATER
RECLAMATION DISTRICT DETAIL PI-01, SEE SHEET C6.3
INSTALL NEW 6" PVC SDR-35 SANITARY SEWER SERVICE AT 2.0% MIN. SLOPE PER
SNYDERVILLE BASIN WATER RECLAMATION DISTRICT DETAIL LAT-01, SHEET C6.3
INSTALL TRENCH DIKE PER SNYDERVILLE BASIN WATER RECLAMATION DISTRICT
DETAIL PI-03, SHEET C6.3
INSTALL NEW 4" PVC SDR-35 SANITARY SEWER SERVICE AT 2.0% MIN. SLOPE PER
SNYDERVILLE BASIN WATER RECLAMATION DISTRICT DETAIL LAT-01, SHEET C6.3
51
52
53
54
55
56
STORM WATER KEYNOTES
INSTALL NEW RCP OR APPROVED EQUAL BY THE ENGINEER PER APWA PLAN 382, SEE
SHEET C6.2
INSTALL NEW SINGLE GRATE CATCH BASIN PER APWA PLAN 315.1, SEE SHEET C6.2
INSTALL NEW DOUBLE GRATE CATCH BASIN PER APWA PLAN 315.2, SEE SHEET C6.2
INSTALL NEW COMBINATION CATCH BASIN AND CLEANOUT BOX PER APWA PLAN 316,
SEE SHEET C6.2
INSTALL NEW PIPE OUTFALL PER APWA PLAN 323.1, SEE SHEET C6.2, INSTALL RIP RAP
APRON, IF REQUIRED, PER DETAIL D1 SHEET C6.7
INSTALL NEW PRECAST MANHOLE PER APWA PLAN 341.2, SEE SHEET C6.2
INSTALL NEW 2'X2' PRECAST BOX PER APWA PLAN 332, SEE SHEET C6.2, INSTALL 8"
FIBER ROLL ON BOTH SIDES OF INLET PER DETAIL A3 SHEET C6.4
INSTALL BMP SNOUT OVER OUTLET PIPE PER DETAIL B4, SHEET C6.4
INSTALL NEW 3'X3' PRECAST BOX PER APWA PLAN 332, SEE SHEET C6.2, INSTALL 8"
FIBER ROLL ON BOTH SIDES OF INLET PER DETAIL A3 SHEET C6.4
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
Know what's below.
Call before you dig.
R
MISCELLANEOUS KEYNOTES
SIGHT TRIANGLEA
NOTES:
1. INSTALL EROSION CONTROL BLANKETS ON SLOPES STEEPER THAN 3:1, DOUBLE
JUTE NET WITH COCONUT FIBERS
2. INSTALL NATIVE SEED MIX IN PARKSTRIPS  AND ALL OTHER DISTURBED AREAS, HECP
TYPE 1, SEE SHEET C6.4, DETAIL B2 FOR SEED MIX
3. SEE SHEETS C5.1 & C5.2 FOR SIGNING AND STRIPING.
4. SEE SHEET C4.0 FOR OVERALL UTILITY PLAN.
5. CONSTRUCTION OF THE WASTEWATER SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS SHALL CONFORM
TO THE SBWRD DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES, DESIGN STANDARDS AND
CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
6. TRENCH BACKFILL SHALL BE PLACED SUCH THAT SETTLEMENT OF THE PAVED
AREAS OVER THE WASTEWATER LINE TRENCHES DOES NOT OCCUR. THE
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY NECESSARY COMPACTION TESTING SHALL BE WITH THE
DEVELOPER AND THEIR CONTRACTOR.
7. BACKFILL ABOVE SEWER LINE WITH CLEAN, UNCONTAMINATED SOILS.
8. IN LOT 2, TEST SOIL AT THE BOTTOM OF THE TRENCH TO VERIFY THAT SOIL IS NOT
CONTAMINATED. IF NECESSARY, REMOVE CONTAMINATED SOIL AND BACKFILL WITH
12" LIFTS COMPACTED TO 95%.
1
1
2
2
 
 
 
 
 
PLAN & PROFILE
FJ GILLMOR SUBDIVISION
SILVER CREEK DRIVE AND OLD HWY 40, SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
42
C8.2
SEE SHEET C8.1
MATCH LINE STA. -1+75 MATCH LINE STA. 2+75
SEE SHEET C3.1
39 6X12 TEE
38
70
70
71
66
66
66
66
4
4 09/19/202339 6X12 TEE 39 12X12 TEE
66
45
67
67
71
42
39 6X12 TEE37
SEE SHEET C8.6
FOR CONTINUATION
66
64
91
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W R/W R/W R/W R/W R/W
R/WR/WR/WR/WR/WR/WR/WR/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X
X X X X X
X X X X X
X
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD
LOD LOD LOD LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
+3
00
+4
00
+5 00
+6 00 +7
S
8'' SS8'' SS8'' SS8'' SS8'' SS8'' SS8'' SS8'' SS8'' SS8'' SS8'' SS8'' SS
>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
> > >
>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
12'' W
12'' W
12'' W
12'' W
12'' W
12'' W 12'' W 12'' W 12'' W 12'' W 12'' W 12'' W 12'' W
6'' W
12'' W
6'' W6'' W
12'' W
12'' W
12'' W
12'' W
12'' W
12'' W
8'' W
W12'' W
12'' W
12'' W
12'' W
12'' W
12'' WEVC: 3+69.60
BVC: 6+48.55 HP: 6+71.67
PC: 2+31.69
PT: 5+42.41
TBC:6520.58
TBC:6521.36
TBC:6522.14
TA:6520.59 TBC:6522.47
TBC:6520.58
TBC:6520.34
TBC:6520.34
TBC:6521.36
TBC:6522.14STA: 4+15.00  28.00' LT
FIRE HYDRANT
STA: 6+50.00  28.00' RT
FIRE HYDRANT
TBC:6522.47
(6515) (6520) (6525)
(6530)
(6530)
(6511) (6512) (6513) (6514) (6516) (6517) (6518) (6519) (6521) (6522) (6523) (6524) (6526) (6527) (6528) (6529)
(6531)
(6531)
(6532)
(6532)
(6527)
(6528)
(6530)
(6529)
(6520)
(6525)
(6519)
(6521)(6522)(6523)(6524)
(6526)
(6527)
(6528)(6529)
6515
6520
6516
6517
6518
6519
6521
6522
6520
6525
6517
6518
6519
6521
6522
6523
6524
6526
6527
6528
6529
6525
6530
6522
6523
6524
6526
6527
6528
6529
6531
6520
6520
6525
6521
65216522652365246526652765286529
70' ROW
5'
5'
5'
5'
45'
A
C6.0
STA: 4+91.66
SSMH-01 (48" DIA.)
RIM: 6521.42
INV OUT: 6515.19 8" (S)
408 LF OF 8" PVC SDR-35 @ 1.00%
90 LF OF 12" PVC C900
148 LF OF 12" PVC C900
FL:6519.50
FL:6518.17
FL:6521.60
FL:6511.04
FL:6519.50
FL:6521.63
2.0:1
2.0:1
2.0:12.0:1
2.0:1
LIMITS OF DISTURBANCE
LIMITS OF DISTURBANCE
1' WIDE DITCH
1' WIDE DITCH
PROPERTY BOUNDARY
EXISTING
FENCE
LOT 1
LOT 1
RIPRAP OUTFALL
6' X 6' X 1' DEEP
D50 = 6"
141 LF OF 12" PVC C900
12'
TBC:6519.00
FL:6518.16
TA:6519.24
2.00%
TBC:6519.00
2.00%
6520
6525
6521
6522
6523
6524
6526
28 LF OF 12" PVC C900
1.99%
2.00%
TA:6522.76
TBC:6522.52
TBC:6522.52
TA:6522.85
TBC:6522.61
TBC:6522.61
2.00%
2.00%
1.99%
1.99%
0.78%
FL:6521.68
FL:6521.77
101 LF OF 12" PVC C900
145 LF OF 12"PVC C900
PAINTBRUSH ROAD PROFILE
2+75.00 to 7+00.00
6500
6505
6510
6515
6520
6525
6530
6535
6540
6500
6505
6510
6515
6520
6525
6530
6535
6540
2+75
6527.48
6518.37
3+00
6528.56
6519.24
6519.91
6529.12
3+25 3+50
6529.39
6520.37
6520.63
6529.61
3+75 4+00
6529.69
6520.82
6521.02
6530.01
4+25 4+50
6530.31
6521.21
6521.41
6530.51
4+75 5+00
6530.70
6521.60
6521.80
6530.47
5+25 5+50
6530.29
6521.99
6522.19
6529.58
5+75 6+00
6529.14
6522.38
6522.58
6528.51
6+25 6+50
6527.74
6522.77
6522.85
6526.85
6+75 7+00
6525.87
6522.72
EXISTING GROUND AT CENTERLINE
FINISHED GRADE AT CENTERLINE
0.78%
STA: 4+91.66 (6.08, RT)
SSMH-01
RIM: 6521.42
INV OUT: 6515.19 - 8" (S)
408 LF OF 8" PVC SDR-35 @ 1.00%
LVC: 190.00 LF
K: 30.33
PVI STA: 2+74.60
PVI ELEV: 6519.84
EVCS: 3+69.60
EVCE: 6520.59
PVI STA: 6+88.55
PVI ELEV: 6523.07
HP STA: 6+71.67
HP ELEV: 6522.85
BVCS: 6+48.55
BVCE: 6522.76
LVC: 80.00 LF
K: 29.64
HP
PT: 5+42.41
6' MIN. COVER
6' MIN. COVER
6' MIN. COVER
90 LF OF 12" PVC C900
148 LF OF 12" PVC C900
141 LF OF 12" PVC C900
28 LF OF 12" PVC C900
101 LF OF 12" PVC C900
145 LF OF 12" PVC C900
Q:\!2021\UT-LD-3682-21 Summit County Land & Justice Campus\Project Data\02 CAD\2.03 Sheet Files\Construction Drawings\UT-LD-3682 PP1.dwg  - C3.1 -   10/18/2023  03:24pm,  justin.smith
1 5
REVISIONS
REV # DATE
DRAWING INFO
DATE
DESIGNED
DRAWN
*SEE GENERAL NOTES SHEET
WARNING
0 1 2
IF THIS BAR DOES NOT
MEASURE 2" THEN
DRAWING IS NOT TO SCALE
www.horrocks.com
PAGE
C
PROJECT
CHECKED
D
B
A
#
2 3 4
4905 South 1500 West, Suite 100
Riverdale, UT 84405
(801) 621-1025
9803098-2202
PRICE
U
PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER
TO F
AH
ETATS 6/23/22
TREVOR N.
UT-LD-3682
TP
JS
JS
06/23/2022
0 20' 40'
SCALE: 1" = 20'
H
O
R R O C K
S
E
N
G I N E E R
S
N
MATCH LINE STA. 7+00
SEE SHEET C3.2
CONSTRUCTION KEYNOTES
CONSTRUCT 2.5' WIDE TYPE M1 CURB AND GUTTER, SEE DETAIL "B1" SHEET C6.1
CONSTRUCT 5.0' WIDE CONCRETE SIDEWALK PER APWA PLAN 231, SEE SHEET C6.1
CONSTRUCT TEMPORARY GRAVEL TURN AROUND (6" GRAVEL BASE COURSE OVER 8"
GRAVEL SUBBASE)
CONSTRUCT MID-BLOCK ADA RAMP PER APWA PLAN 236.1, SEE SHEET C6.1
CONSTRUCT KEYSTONE BLOCK WALL, SEE DETAILS SHEET C6.5
CONSTRUCT DRIVE APPROACH WITH 8" THICK CONCRETE IN THE PARK STRIPE AND 8"
THICK SIDEWALK
INSTALL W-BEAM GUARDRAIL PER DETAILS ON SHEETS C6.6 & C6.7
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
WATER KEYNOTES
CUT IN "T" TO EXISTING 12" D.I.P. PER MOUNTAIN REGIONAL WATER STANDARDS.
CONTRACTOR TO VERIFY LOCATION PRIOR TO STARTING CONSTRUCTION
INSTALL FIRE HYDRANT PER M.R.W. DWG. 5, SEE SHEET C6.1
INSTALL 12" WATER MAIN PER M.R.W. DWG. 1, SEE SHEET C6.1
INSTALL 12" WATER MAIN FITTING AND THRUST BLOCK PER M.R.W. DWG. 7, SEE
SHEET C6.1
INSTALL COMBINATION AIR RELEASE VALVE PER M.R.W. DWG. 8, SEE SHEET C6.1
INSTALL VALVE IN ASPHALT AND EXTEND 12" PIPE 5' WITH STUB, CAP, AND THRUST
BLOCK TO END OF ROADWAY IMPROVEMENTS FOR FUTURE CONNECTION PER
M.R.W. STANDARDS
INSTALL 12" GATE VALVE PER M.R.W. DWG. 6, SEE SHEET C6.1
CONSTRUCT WATER MAIN LOOP PER M.R.W. STANDARDS
CONSTRUCT 8" WATER SERVICE TO LOT WITH VALVE, CAP SERVICE FOR FUTURE
CONNECTION PER M.R.W. STANDARDS
INSTALL 2" FOAM BOARD 10' EACH SIDE OF STORM DRAIN PIPE, INSTALL 2 LAYERS AT
48" PIPE CROSSING
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
SEWER KEYNOTES
CONNECT NEW 8" SEWER TO EXISTING SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE, CORE DRILL
MANHOLE AND INSTALL MANHOLE BOOT (SBWRD INSPECTOR MUST WITNESS CORING
ACTIVITIES), FORM SMOOTH TRANSITION INTO EXISTING CHANNEL AND READJUST
MANHOLE PER SBWRD DETAIL MH-10, SHEET C6.3, MANHOLE ENTRY MUST MEET
OSHA AND SBWRD CONFINED SPACE ENTRY REQUIREMENTS. CONTRACTOR TO FIELD
VERIFY LOCATION AND ELEVATION PRIOR TO STARTING CONSTRUCTION
INSTALL NEW PRECAST SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE PER SNYDERVILLE BASIN WATER
RECLAMATION DISTRICT DETAIL MH-01, SEE SHEET C6.3
INSTALL NEW 8" PVC SDR-35 SANITARY SEWER MAIN PER SNYDERVILLE BASIN WATER
RECLAMATION DISTRICT DETAIL PI-01, SEE SHEET C6.3
INSTALL NEW 6" PVC SDR-35 SANITARY SEWER SERVICE AT 2.0% MIN. SLOPE PER
SNYDERVILLE BASIN WATER RECLAMATION DISTRICT DETAIL LAT-01, SHEET C6.3
INSTALL TRENCH DIKE PER SNYDERVILLE BASIN WATER RECLAMATION DISTRICT
DETAIL PI-03, SHEET C6.3
INSTALL NEW 4" PVC SDR-35 SANITARY SEWER SERVICE AT 2.0% MIN. SLOPE PER
SNYDERVILLE BASIN WATER RECLAMATION DISTRICT DETAIL LAT-01, SHEET C6.3
51
52
53
54
55
56
STORM WATER KEYNOTES
INSTALL NEW RCP OR APPROVED EQUAL BY THE ENGINEER PER APWA PLAN 382, SEE
SHEET C6.2
INSTALL NEW SINGLE GRATE CATCH BASIN PER APWA PLAN 315.1, SEE SHEET C6.2
INSTALL NEW DOUBLE GRATE CATCH BASIN PER APWA PLAN 315.2, SEE SHEET C6.2
INSTALL NEW COMBINATION CATCH BASIN AND CLEANOUT BOX PER APWA PLAN 316,
SEE SHEET C6.2
INSTALL NEW PIPE OUTFALL PER APWA PLAN 323.1, SEE SHEET C6.2, INSTALL RIP RAP
APRON, IF REQUIRED, PER DETAIL D1 SHEET C6.7
INSTALL NEW PRECAST MANHOLE PER APWA PLAN 341.2, SEE SHEET C6.2
INSTALL NEW 2'X2' PRECAST BOX PER APWA PLAN 332, SEE SHEET C6.2, INSTALL 8"
FIBER ROLL ON BOTH SIDES OF INLET PER DETAIL A3 SHEET C6.4
INSTALL BMP SNOUT OVER OUTLET PIPE PER DETAIL B4, SHEET C6.4
INSTALL NEW 3'X3' PRECAST BOX PER APWA PLAN 332, SEE SHEET C6.2, INSTALL 8"
FIBER ROLL ON BOTH SIDES OF INLET PER DETAIL A3 SHEET C6.4
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
Know what's below.
Call before you dig.
R
MISCELLANEOUS KEYNOTES
SIGHT TRIANGLEA
NOTES:
1. INSTALL EROSION CONTROL BLANKETS ON SLOPES STEEPER THAN 3:1, DOUBLE
JUTE NET WITH COCONUT FIBERS
2. INSTALL NATIVE SEED MIX IN PARKSTRIPS  AND ALL OTHER DISTURBED AREAS, HECP
TYPE 1, SEE SHEET C6.4, DETAIL B2 FOR SEED MIX
3. SEE SHEETS C5.1 & C5.2 FOR SIGNING AND STRIPING.
4. SEE SHEET C4.0 FOR OVERALL UTILITY PLAN.
5. CONSTRUCTION OF THE WASTEWATER SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS SHALL CONFORM
TO THE SBWRD DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES, DESIGN STANDARDS AND
CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
6. TRENCH BACKFILL SHALL BE PLACED SUCH THAT SETTLEMENT OF THE PAVED
AREAS OVER THE WASTEWATER LINE TRENCHES DOES NOT OCCUR. THE
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY NECESSARY COMPACTION TESTING SHALL BE WITH THE
DEVELOPER AND THEIR CONTRACTOR.
7. BACKFILL ABOVE SEWER LINE WITH CLEAN, UNCONTAMINATED SOILS.
8. IN LOT 2, TEST SOIL AT THE BOTTOM OF THE TRENCH TO VERIFY THAT SOIL IS NOT
CONTAMINATED. IF NECESSARY, REMOVE CONTAMINATED SOIL AND BACKFILL WITH
12" LIFTS COMPACTED TO 95%.
1
1
2
2
37
42
38
38
37
39 11.25°
 
 
 
 
 
PLAN & PROFILE
FJ GILLMOR SUBDIVISION
SILVER CREEK DRIVE AND OLD HWY 40, SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
7
C3.1
52 5339 6X12 TEE
39 6X12 TEE
6
44
2 05/03/2023
38
40
38
2
MATCH LINE STA. 2+75
SEE SHEET C8.2
4 10/18/2023
4
2
39 22.5°
65
92
g g g g g g g g g g g g g g
bel
bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel bel
e
e
LOD
LOD
LODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLODLOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD
LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD
+ -2-00+ -1-00
12'' W 12'' W 12'' W 12'' W 12'' W 12'' W 12'' W 12'' W 12'' W 12'' W 12'' W
6'' W
SD
SD
>
> >
>
>
>
>
>
6'' W 6'' W
100YRHWM100YRHWM100YRHWM100YRHWM100YRHWM
100YRHWM100YRHWM100YRHWM100YRHWM100YRHWM100YRHWM100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM 100YR
HWM 100YR
HWM 100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR HWM 100YR HWM 100YR HWM 100YR HWM 100YR HWM 100YR HWM 100YR
HWM
+1
00+190
+1
00+170
+2 00 +3 00
+4 00
+5 00 +6 00
HWM
HWM
HWM HWM HWM
HWM HWM HWM HWM HWM HWM HWM
HWM
HWMHWMHWMHWMHWMHWMHWMHWM
HWMHWMHWMHWMHWMHWMHWMHWMHWMHWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
BVC: -1+20.58
(6491)
(6491)
(6500)
(6498)
(6499)
(6501)
(6502)
(6497)
(6495)
(6492)
(6490)
(6488)
(6488)
(6489)
(6491)
(6491)
(6490)(6490)(6495)(6500) (6489)(6489)
(6491)(6491)(6492)(6493)(6494)(6496)(6497)(6498)(6499)(6501)(6502)
6495
6492
6493
6494
6496
6497
6498
6500
6501
6502
3.0:1
6495
6491
6492
6493
6494
6496
6497
6498
6499
6500
6501
6502
TBC:6499.82
2.00%
1.48%
SDFE-22
INV OUT: 6487.12 30" (SW)
SDMH-09 (60" DIA.)
RIM: 6499.65
INV IN: 6495.15 24" (SE)
INV IN: 6487.30 18" (NW)
INV OUT: 6487.30 30" (NE)
31 LF OF 30" SD @ 0.58%
183 LF OF 18" SD @ 0.50%87 LF OF 24" SD @ 2.33% 183 LF OF 18" SD @ 0.50%
TBC:6500.18 6490
6495
6486
6487
6488
6489
6491
6492
6493
6494
6496
6497
6498
6499
6490
6486
6487
6488
6489
3.0:1
3.3:1
59 LF OF 24" SD @ 3.45%
275 LF OF 12" PVC C90084 LF OF 12" PVC C900
6490
6489
6491
6492
6493
6494
6490
6488
6489
(6491)(6492)
(6493)
(6492)
(6490)
(6494)
(6495)
(6496)
(6496)
(6497)
(6496)
(6497)
(6498)
(6499)
(6500)
(6501)
(6502)
(6490)
(6489)
(6488)
(6488)
(6489)
(6490)
(6492)
(6491)
(6493)
(6494)
(6495)
LIMITS OF
DISTURBANCE
LIMITS OF
DISTURBANCE
FUTURE PARKING
LOT DESIGN
FUTURE ACCESS
ROAD DESIGN
(6495)
(6494)
(6493)
(6493)
(6494)
(6495)
(6496)
(6497)
FL:6486.00
FL:6486.00
FL:6487.00
FL:6486.00
FL:6486.00
FL:6487.00 FL:6487.00
CONTRACTOR TO
RELOCATE EXISTING
UTILITIES AS NEEDED
4.0:1 3.1:1
2'
13.57'
6'
PROPERTY
BOUNDARY
RD EXT POND PROFILE
1+50.00 to 6+50.00
6475
6480
6485
6490
6495
6500
6505
6475
6480
6485
6490
6495
6500
6505
1+50
6497.20
6499.89
6499.11
6491.12
1+75 2+00
6489.71
6490.75
6486.00
6489.18
2+25 2+50
6488.96
6486.00
6486.00
6489.25
2+75 3+00
6489.37
6486.00
6486.00
6489.67
3+25 3+50
6490.02
6486.00
6486.62
6488.89
3+75 4+00
6488.17
6487.00
6487.00
6488.01
4+25 4+50
6488.01
6487.00
6487.00
6487.92
4+75 5+00
6487.82
6487.00
6487.00
6487.71
5+25 5+50
6487.64
6487.00
6487.00
6487.61
5+75 6+00
6487.81
6487.00
6487.00
6488.37
6+25 6+50
6488.43
6487.50
STA: -1+12.97 (-38.38, LT)
SDMH-09
GRATE: 6499.65
INV IN: 6495.15 - 24" (SE)
INV IN: 6487.30 - 18" (NW)
INV OUT: 6487.30 - 30" (NE)
31 LF OF 30" SD @ 0.58%
SDFE-22
INV OUT: 6487.12 - 30" (SW)
FINISHED GRADE AT CENTERLINE
EXISTING GROUND AT CENTERLINE
POND BOTTOM
EL:6486.00
100 YR HIGH WATER
EL: 6489.00
POND BOTTOM
EL:6487.00
POND BOTTOM
EL:6487.00
8" THICK RIPRAP
3:1
15% SEDIMENT TRAP
EL: 6487.00
POND RETENTION
EL: 6488.20
POND BOTTOM
EL:6486.00
Q:\!2021\UT-LD-3682-21 Summit County Land & Justice Campus\Project Data\02 CAD\2.03 Sheet Files\Construction Drawings\UT-LD-3682 PP6-1 RD EXT POND.dwg  - C8.6 -   10/18/2023  04:05pm,  justin.smith
1 5
REVISIONS
REV # DATE
DRAWING INFO
DATE
DESIGNED
DRAWN
*SEE GENERAL NOTES SHEET
WARNING
0 1 2
IF THIS BAR DOES NOT
MEASURE 2" THEN
DRAWING IS NOT TO SCALE
www.horrocks.com
PAGE
C
PROJECT
CHECKED
D
B
A
#
2 3 4
4905 South 1500 West, Suite 100
Riverdale, UT 84405
(801) 621-1025
9803098-2202
PRICE
U
PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER
TO F
AH
ETATS 6/23/22
TREVOR N.
UT-LD-3682
TP
JS
JS
06/23/2022
0 20' 40'
SCALE: 1" = 20'
H
O
R R O C K
S
E
N
G I N E E R
SN
CONSTRUCTION KEYNOTES
CONSTRUCT 2.5' WIDE TYPE M1 CURB AND GUTTER, SEE DETAIL "B1" SHEET C6.1
CONSTRUCT 5.0' WIDE CONCRETE SIDEWALK PER APWA PLAN 231, SEE SHEET C6.1
CONSTRUCT TEMPORARY GRAVEL TURN AROUND (6" GRAVEL BASE COURSE OVER 8"
GRAVEL SUBBASE)
CONSTRUCT MID-BLOCK ADA RAMP PER APWA PLAN 236.1, SEE SHEET C6.1
CONSTRUCT KEYSTONE BLOCK WALL, SEE DETAILS SHEET C6.5
CONSTRUCT DRIVE APPROACH WITH 8" THICK CONCRETE IN THE PARK STRIPE AND 8"
THICK SIDEWALK
INSTALL W-BEAM GUARDRAIL PER DETAILS ON SHEETS C6.6 & C6.7
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
WATER KEYNOTES
CUT IN "T" TO EXISTING 12" D.I.P. PER MOUNTAIN REGIONAL WATER STANDARDS.
CONTRACTOR TO VERIFY LOCATION PRIOR TO STARTING CONSTRUCTION
INSTALL FIRE HYDRANT PER M.R.W. DWG. 5, SEE SHEET C6.1
INSTALL 12" WATER MAIN PER M.R.W. DWG. 1, SEE SHEET C6.1
INSTALL 12" WATER MAIN FITTING AND THRUST BLOCK PER M.R.W. DWG. 7, SEE
SHEET C6.1
INSTALL COMBINATION AIR RELEASE VALVE PER M.R.W. DWG. 8, SEE SHEET C6.1
INSTALL VALVE IN ASPHALT AND EXTEND 12" PIPE 5' WITH STUB, CAP, AND THRUST
BLOCK TO END OF ROADWAY IMPROVEMENTS FOR FUTURE CONNECTION PER
M.R.W. STANDARDS
INSTALL 12" GATE VALVE PER M.R.W. DWG. 6, SEE SHEET C6.1
CONSTRUCT WATER MAIN LOOP PER M.R.W. STANDARDS
CONSTRUCT 8" WATER SERVICE TO LOT WITH VALVE, CAP SERVICE FOR FUTURE
CONNECTION PER M.R.W. STANDARDS
INSTALL 2" FOAM BOARD 10' EACH SIDE OF STORM DRAIN PIPE, INSTALL 2 LAYERS AT
48" PIPE CROSSING
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
SEWER KEYNOTES
CONNECT NEW 8" SEWER TO EXISTING SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE, CORE DRILL
MANHOLE AND INSTALL MANHOLE BOOT (SBWRD INSPECTOR MUST WITNESS CORING
ACTIVITIES), FORM SMOOTH TRANSITION INTO EXISTING CHANNEL AND READJUST
MANHOLE PER SBWRD DETAIL MH-10, SHEET C6.3, MANHOLE ENTRY MUST MEET
OSHA AND SBWRD CONFINED SPACE ENTRY REQUIREMENTS. CONTRACTOR TO FIELD
VERIFY LOCATION AND ELEVATION PRIOR TO STARTING CONSTRUCTION
INSTALL NEW PRECAST SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE PER SNYDERVILLE BASIN WATER
RECLAMATION DISTRICT DETAIL MH-01, SEE SHEET C6.3
INSTALL NEW 8" PVC SDR-35 SANITARY SEWER MAIN PER SNYDERVILLE BASIN WATER
RECLAMATION DISTRICT DETAIL PI-01, SEE SHEET C6.3
INSTALL NEW 6" PVC SDR-35 SANITARY SEWER SERVICE AT 2.0% MIN. SLOPE PER
SNYDERVILLE BASIN WATER RECLAMATION DISTRICT DETAIL LAT-01, SHEET C6.3
INSTALL TRENCH DIKE PER SNYDERVILLE BASIN WATER RECLAMATION DISTRICT
DETAIL PI-03, SHEET C6.3
INSTALL NEW 4" PVC SDR-35 SANITARY SEWER SERVICE AT 2.0% MIN. SLOPE PER
SNYDERVILLE BASIN WATER RECLAMATION DISTRICT DETAIL LAT-01, SHEET C6.3
51
52
53
54
55
56
STORM WATER KEYNOTES
INSTALL NEW RCP OR APPROVED EQUAL BY THE ENGINEER PER APWA PLAN 382, SEE
SHEET C6.2
INSTALL NEW SINGLE GRATE CATCH BASIN PER APWA PLAN 315.1, SEE SHEET C6.2
INSTALL NEW DOUBLE GRATE CATCH BASIN PER APWA PLAN 315.2, SEE SHEET C6.2
INSTALL NEW COMBINATION CATCH BASIN AND CLEANOUT BOX PER APWA PLAN 316,
SEE SHEET C6.2
INSTALL NEW PIPE OUTFALL PER APWA PLAN 323.1, SEE SHEET C6.2, INSTALL RIP RAP
APRON, IF REQUIRED, PER DETAIL D1 SHEET C6.7
INSTALL NEW PRECAST MANHOLE PER APWA PLAN 341.2, SEE SHEET C6.2
INSTALL NEW 2'X2' PRECAST BOX PER APWA PLAN 332, SEE SHEET C6.2, INSTALL 8"
FIBER ROLL ON BOTH SIDES OF INLET PER DETAIL A3 SHEET C6.4
INSTALL BMP SNOUT OVER OUTLET PIPE PER DETAIL B4, SHEET C6.4
INSTALL NEW 3'X3' PRECAST BOX PER APWA PLAN 332, SEE SHEET C6.2, INSTALL 8"
FIBER ROLL ON BOTH SIDES OF INLET PER DETAIL A3 SHEET C6.4
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
Know what's below.
Call before you dig.
R
MISCELLANEOUS KEYNOTES
SIGHT TRIANGLEA
NOTES:
1. INSTALL EROSION CONTROL BLANKETS ON SLOPES STEEPER THAN 3:1, DOUBLE
JUTE NET WITH COCONUT FIBERS
2. INSTALL NATIVE SEED MIX IN PARKSTRIPS  AND ALL OTHER DISTURBED AREAS, HECP
TYPE 1, SEE SHEET C6.4, DETAIL B2 FOR SEED MIX
3. SEE SHEETS C5.1 & C5.2 FOR SIGNING AND STRIPING.
4. SEE SHEET C4.0 FOR OVERALL UTILITY PLAN.
5. CONSTRUCTION OF THE WASTEWATER SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS SHALL CONFORM
TO THE SBWRD DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES, DESIGN STANDARDS AND
CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
6. TRENCH BACKFILL SHALL BE PLACED SUCH THAT SETTLEMENT OF THE PAVED
AREAS OVER THE WASTEWATER LINE TRENCHES DOES NOT OCCUR. THE
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY NECESSARY COMPACTION TESTING SHALL BE WITH THE
DEVELOPER AND THEIR CONTRACTOR.
7. BACKFILL ABOVE SEWER LINE WITH CLEAN, UNCONTAMINATED SOILS.
8. IN LOT 2, TEST SOIL AT THE BOTTOM OF THE TRENCH TO VERIFY THAT SOIL IS NOT
CONTAMINATED. IF NECESSARY, REMOVE CONTAMINATED SOIL AND BACKFILL WITH
12" LIFTS COMPACTED TO 95%.
 
 
 
 
 
ROAD EXTENSION POND PLAN & PROFILE
FJ GILLMOR SUBDIVISION
SILVER CREEK DRIVE AND OLD HWY 40, SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
46
C8.6
SEE SHEET C8.1
FOR CONTINUATION
4 10/18/2023
SEE SHEET C8.7
MATCH LINE STA. 6+50
ROAD EXTENSION POND
TOP OF POND: 6490.00
100 YR HIGH WATER: 6489.00
RETENTION HIGH WATER: 6487.00
1.0' FREEBOARD
BOTTOM: 6486.00
RETENTION STORAGE:  7,481 C.F.
100 YR STORAGE:  13,991 C.F. 100 YR HIGH WATER EL: 6489.00
POND RETENTION EL: 6488.20
15% SEDIMENT TRAP EL: 6487.00
71
66
70
SEE CROSS SECTION,
RD EXT POND SEC 1,
SHEET C8.8 SEE CROSS SECTION,
RD EXT POND SEC 2,
SHEET C8.8
4
66
93
g g g g g
g g g
bel
bel
bel
bel bel
bel bel bel bel bel bel bel
bel
bel
bel
bel bel
bel
bel
bel
bel
bel
bel sd
e
e
e
t
fo
fo
t
e
sd sd sd
LOD
LOD
LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD LOD
LOD
LOD
LODLODLODLODLOD
HWM100YR
HWM100YRHWM
HWM
100YR HWM 100YR HWM 100YR
+100+160
SD
+7 00
+8 00
+9 00 +10 00 +11 00 +11 76
HWM HWM
HWM HWM
HWMHWM
HWMHWM
SD
SDAD-06
(3'x3' BOX W/ 1 FT SUMP)
GRATE: 6488.20
INV OUT: 6484.95 24" (NE)
96 LF OF 24" SD @ 0.88%
SDAD-07 (3'x3' BOX)
GRATE: 6489.00
INV IN: 6484.57 24" (SW)
INV OUT: 6484.47 24" (E)
71 LF OF 24" SD @ 0.54%
SDMH-18 (60" DIA.)
RIM: 6495.05
INV IN: 6483.37 30" (NW)
INV OUT: 6483.27 30" (NE)
253 LF OF 30" SD @ 0.50%
SDFE-26
INV OUT: 6482.00 30" (SW)
(6477)(6478)
(6479)
(6480)
(6481)
(6482)
(6483)
(6484)
(6485)
(6486)
(6497)
(6496)
(6495)
(6494)
(6493)
(6492)
(6491)
(6490)
(6489)
(6488)
(6487)(6486)
(6485)
(6484)
(6483)
(6482)
(6481)
(6480)
(6479) (6478)
(6496)
(6496)
(6496)
(6496)
(6496)
(6495)
(6496)
(6495)
(6494)
(6493)
(6492)
(6491)(6490)
(6489)(6488)
(6489)
(6490)
(6491)
(6492)
(6493)
(6494)
(6495)
(6491)
(6492)
(6493)(6494)
(6495)
(6492)
(6493)
(6494)
(6491)
(6492)
(6493) (6494)
(6495)
(6492)
(6493)
(6494)(6495)
LIMITS OF
DISTURBANCE
FUTURE PARKING
LOT DESIGN
EXISTING STORM
WATER POND
EXISTING GRAVEL
ACCESS ROAD
EXISTING FENCE
CONTRACTOR TO REMOVE SOIL AND
WEEDS BLOCKING EXISTING SD PIPE
CONTRACTOR TO
RELOCATE EXISTING
UTILITIES AS NEEDED
6490
6489
6491
6492
6490
6489
2'
FL:6488.00
FL:6488.00
3.2:1
3.1:1
PROPERTY
BOUNDARY
SAWCUT AND PATCH EXISTING
ASPHALT, CURB AND GUTTER
CONTRACTOR TO POTHOLE EXISTING UTILITIES
PRIOR TO STARTING CONSTRUCTION AND NOTIFY
ENGINEER OF ANY POSSIBLE CONFLICTS
33 LF OF 30" SD @ 0.50%
SDMH-19 (60" DIA.)
RIM: 6494.64
INV IN: 6483.63 24" (W)
INV OUT: 6483.53 30" (SE)
RD EXT POND PROFILE
6+50.00 to 11+50.00
6475
6480
6485
6490
6495
6500
6505
6475
6480
6485
6490
6495
6500
6505
6+50
6488.43
6487.50
6487.99
6488.55
6+75 7+00
6490.22
6488.00
6488.00
6491.96
7+25 7+50
6492.20
6489.67
6494.05
7+75 8+00
6494.51
6494.58
8+25 8+50
6494.73
6494.99
8+75 9+00
6492.59
6491.81
9+25 9+50
6491.68
6491.58
9+75 10+00
6491.91
6492.38
10+25 10+50
6493.06
6495.14
10+75 11+00
6487.16
6484.78
11+25 11+50
6478.52
71 LF OF 24" SD @ 0.54%
SDAD-07
GRATE: 6489.00
INV IN: 6484.57 - 24" (SW)
INV OUT: 6484.47 - 24" (E)
96 LF OF 24" SD @ 0.88%
SDMH-18
RIM: 6495.05
INV IN: 6483.37 - 30" (NW)
INV OUT: 6483.27 - 30" (NE)
253 LF OF 30" SD @ 0.50%
SDFE-26
INV OUT: 6482.00 - 30" (SW)
FINISHED GRADE AT CENTERLINE
EXISTING GROUND AT CENTERLINE
100 YR HIGH WATER
EL: 6489.00
POND BOTTOM
EL:6488.00
POND BOTTOM
EL:6488.00
100 YR HIGH WATER
OVERFLOW
3:1
SDMH-19
RIM: 6494.64
INV IN: 6483.63 - 24" (W)
INV OUT: 6483.53 - 30" (SE)
33 LF OF 30" SD @ 0.50%
POND RETENTION
EL: 6488.20
SDAD-06
GRATE: 6488.20
INV OUT: 6484.95 - 24" (NE)
APPROXIMATE LOCATION OF EXISTING
WATER MAIN, CONTRACTOR TO LOCATE
AND POTHOLE PRIOR TO STARTING
CONSTRUCTION AND NOTIFY ENGINEER
OF ANY POSSIBLE CONFLICTS
8" THICK RIPRAP
8" THICK RIPRAP
8" THICK RIPRAP
Q:\!2021\UT-LD-3682-21 Summit County Land & Justice Campus\Project Data\02 CAD\2.03 Sheet Files\Construction Drawings\UT-LD-3682 PP6-1 RD EXT POND.dwg  - C8.7 -   10/18/2023  04:06pm,  justin.smith
1 5
REVISIONS
REV # DATE
DRAWING INFO
DATE
DESIGNED
DRAWN
*SEE GENERAL NOTES SHEET
WARNING
0 1 2
IF THIS BAR DOES NOT
MEASURE 2" THEN
DRAWING IS NOT TO SCALE
www.horrocks.com
PAGE
C
PROJECT
CHECKED
D
B
A
#
2 3 4
4905 South 1500 West, Suite 100
Riverdale, UT 84405
(801) 621-1025
9803098-2202
PRICE
U
PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER
TO F
AH
ETATS 6/23/22
TREVOR N.
UT-LD-3682
TP
JS
JS
06/23/2022
0 20' 40'
SCALE: 1" = 20'
H
O
R R O C K
S
E
N
G I N E E R
SN
CONSTRUCTION KEYNOTES
CONSTRUCT 2.5' WIDE TYPE M1 CURB AND GUTTER, SEE DETAIL "B1" SHEET C6.1
CONSTRUCT 5.0' WIDE CONCRETE SIDEWALK PER APWA PLAN 231, SEE SHEET C6.1
CONSTRUCT TEMPORARY GRAVEL TURN AROUND (6" GRAVEL BASE COURSE OVER 8"
GRAVEL SUBBASE)
CONSTRUCT MID-BLOCK ADA RAMP PER APWA PLAN 236.1, SEE SHEET C6.1
CONSTRUCT KEYSTONE BLOCK WALL, SEE DETAILS SHEET C6.5
CONSTRUCT DRIVE APPROACH WITH 8" THICK CONCRETE IN THE PARK STRIPE AND 8"
THICK SIDEWALK
INSTALL W-BEAM GUARDRAIL PER DETAILS ON SHEETS C6.6 & C6.7
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
WATER KEYNOTES
CUT IN "T" TO EXISTING 12" D.I.P. PER MOUNTAIN REGIONAL WATER STANDARDS.
CONTRACTOR TO VERIFY LOCATION PRIOR TO STARTING CONSTRUCTION
INSTALL FIRE HYDRANT PER M.R.W. DWG. 5, SEE SHEET C6.1
INSTALL 12" WATER MAIN PER M.R.W. DWG. 1, SEE SHEET C6.1
INSTALL 12" WATER MAIN FITTING AND THRUST BLOCK PER M.R.W. DWG. 7, SEE
SHEET C6.1
INSTALL COMBINATION AIR RELEASE VALVE PER M.R.W. DWG. 8, SEE SHEET C6.1
INSTALL VALVE IN ASPHALT AND EXTEND 12" PIPE 5' WITH STUB, CAP, AND THRUST
BLOCK TO END OF ROADWAY IMPROVEMENTS FOR FUTURE CONNECTION PER
M.R.W. STANDARDS
INSTALL 12" GATE VALVE PER M.R.W. DWG. 6, SEE SHEET C6.1
CONSTRUCT WATER MAIN LOOP PER M.R.W. STANDARDS
CONSTRUCT 8" WATER SERVICE TO LOT WITH VALVE, CAP SERVICE FOR FUTURE
CONNECTION PER M.R.W. STANDARDS
INSTALL 2" FOAM BOARD 10' EACH SIDE OF STORM DRAIN PIPE, INSTALL 2 LAYERS AT
48" PIPE CROSSING
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
SEWER KEYNOTES
CONNECT NEW 8" SEWER TO EXISTING SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE, CORE DRILL
MANHOLE AND INSTALL MANHOLE BOOT (SBWRD INSPECTOR MUST WITNESS CORING
ACTIVITIES), FORM SMOOTH TRANSITION INTO EXISTING CHANNEL AND READJUST
MANHOLE PER SBWRD DETAIL MH-10, SHEET C6.3, MANHOLE ENTRY MUST MEET
OSHA AND SBWRD CONFINED SPACE ENTRY REQUIREMENTS. CONTRACTOR TO FIELD
VERIFY LOCATION AND ELEVATION PRIOR TO STARTING CONSTRUCTION
INSTALL NEW PRECAST SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE PER SNYDERVILLE BASIN WATER
RECLAMATION DISTRICT DETAIL MH-01, SEE SHEET C6.3
INSTALL NEW 8" PVC SDR-35 SANITARY SEWER MAIN PER SNYDERVILLE BASIN WATER
RECLAMATION DISTRICT DETAIL PI-01, SEE SHEET C6.3
INSTALL NEW 6" PVC SDR-35 SANITARY SEWER SERVICE AT 2.0% MIN. SLOPE PER
SNYDERVILLE BASIN WATER RECLAMATION DISTRICT DETAIL LAT-01, SHEET C6.3
INSTALL TRENCH DIKE PER SNYDERVILLE BASIN WATER RECLAMATION DISTRICT
DETAIL PI-03, SHEET C6.3
INSTALL NEW 4" PVC SDR-35 SANITARY SEWER SERVICE AT 2.0% MIN. SLOPE PER
SNYDERVILLE BASIN WATER RECLAMATION DISTRICT DETAIL LAT-01, SHEET C6.3
51
52
53
54
55
56
STORM WATER KEYNOTES
INSTALL NEW RCP OR APPROVED EQUAL BY THE ENGINEER PER APWA PLAN 382, SEE
SHEET C6.2
INSTALL NEW SINGLE GRATE CATCH BASIN PER APWA PLAN 315.1, SEE SHEET C6.2
INSTALL NEW DOUBLE GRATE CATCH BASIN PER APWA PLAN 315.2, SEE SHEET C6.2
INSTALL NEW COMBINATION CATCH BASIN AND CLEANOUT BOX PER APWA PLAN 316,
SEE SHEET C6.2
INSTALL NEW PIPE OUTFALL PER APWA PLAN 323.1, SEE SHEET C6.2, INSTALL RIP RAP
APRON, IF REQUIRED, PER DETAIL D1 SHEET C6.7
INSTALL NEW PRECAST MANHOLE PER APWA PLAN 341.2, SEE SHEET C6.2
INSTALL NEW 2'X2' PRECAST BOX PER APWA PLAN 332, SEE SHEET C6.2, INSTALL 8"
FIBER ROLL ON BOTH SIDES OF INLET PER DETAIL A3 SHEET C6.4
INSTALL BMP SNOUT OVER OUTLET PIPE PER DETAIL B4, SHEET C6.4
INSTALL NEW 3'X3' PRECAST BOX PER APWA PLAN 332, SEE SHEET C6.2, INSTALL 8"
FIBER ROLL ON BOTH SIDES OF INLET PER DETAIL A3 SHEET C6.4
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
Know what's below.
Call before you dig.
R
MISCELLANEOUS KEYNOTES
SIGHT TRIANGLEA
NOTES:
1. INSTALL EROSION CONTROL BLANKETS ON SLOPES STEEPER THAN 3:1, DOUBLE
JUTE NET WITH COCONUT FIBERS
2. INSTALL NATIVE SEED MIX IN PARKSTRIPS  AND ALL OTHER DISTURBED AREAS, HECP
TYPE 1, SEE SHEET C6.4, DETAIL B2 FOR SEED MIX
3. SEE SHEETS C5.1 & C5.2 FOR SIGNING AND STRIPING.
4. SEE SHEET C4.0 FOR OVERALL UTILITY PLAN.
5. CONSTRUCTION OF THE WASTEWATER SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS SHALL CONFORM
TO THE SBWRD DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES, DESIGN STANDARDS AND
CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
6. TRENCH BACKFILL SHALL BE PLACED SUCH THAT SETTLEMENT OF THE PAVED
AREAS OVER THE WASTEWATER LINE TRENCHES DOES NOT OCCUR. THE
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY NECESSARY COMPACTION TESTING SHALL BE WITH THE
DEVELOPER AND THEIR CONTRACTOR.
7. BACKFILL ABOVE SEWER LINE WITH CLEAN, UNCONTAMINATED SOILS.
8. IN LOT 2, TEST SOIL AT THE BOTTOM OF THE TRENCH TO VERIFY THAT SOIL IS NOT
CONTAMINATED. IF NECESSARY, REMOVE CONTAMINATED SOIL AND BACKFILL WITH
12" LIFTS COMPACTED TO 95%.
 
 
 
 
 
ROAD EXTENSION POND PLAN & PROFILE
FJ GILLMOR SUBDIVISION
SILVER CREEK DRIVE AND OLD HWY 40, SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
47
C8.7
4 10/18/2023
SEE SHEET C8.6
MATCH LINE STA. 6+50
100 YR HIGH WATER
EL: 6589.00
100 YR HIGH WATER
OVERFLOW
66 70
66
66
71
SEE CROSS SECTION,
RD EXT POND SEC 3,
SHEET C8.8
71
66
POND RETENTION
EL: 6488.20
INSTALL NEW 3'X3' PRECAST BOX
WITH GRATE PER APWA PLAN 332,
SHEET C6.2, WITH 21" ORIFICE
PLATE PER DETAIL C1 THIS SHEET INSTALL NEW 3'X3' PRECAST
BOX WITH GRATE PER
APWA PLAN 332, SHEET C6.2
SCALE:
C1
C8.7
ORIFICE PLATE
NTS
1" TYP.
1" TYP.
OUTLET CONTROL
STRUCTURE
21" DIA. OPENING
GALVANIZED STEEL
CONCRETE BOLTS TYP.
1/4" GALVANIZED STEEL
PLATE WITH OPENING
CENTERED OVER CONCRETE
OPENING
EXTEND STEEL PLATE
3" BEYOND CONCRETE
OPENING
OPENING IN CONCRETE, SEE
DETAIL A THIS SHEET FOR SIZE
8" THICK RIPRAP
4
67
94
RD EXT POND SEC 1 PROFILE
1+00.00 to 1+90.00
6480
6485
6490
6495
6500
6505
6480
6485
6490
6495
6500
6505
1+00
6492.23
6486.99
6488.63
1+25 1+50
6496.33
6489.39
6497.68
6499.78
1+75 1+90
6500.72
RD EXT POND SEC 2 PROFILE
1+00.00 to 1+70.00
6480
6485
6490
6495
6500
6505
6480
6485
6490
6495
6500
6505
1+00
6490.09
6488.33
6488.58
1+25 1+50
6493.45
6491.84
1+70
6495.96
RD EXT POND SEC 3 PROFILE
1+00.00 to 1+60.00
6480
6485
6490
6495
6500
6505
6480
6485
6490
6495
6500
6505
1+00
6491.66
6489.36
6491.66
1+25 1+50
6493.31
1+60
6494.07
2'
2'
11.53'
100 YR HIGH WATER
EL: 6489.00
100 YR HIGH WATER
EL: 6489.00
100 YR HIGH WATER
EL: 6489.00
POND BOTTOM
EL:6486.00
POND BOTTOM
EL:6487.00
POND BOTTOM
EL:6488.00
8" THICK RIPRAP
EXISTING GROUND AT CENTERLINE
EXISTING GROUND AT CENTERLINE EXISTING GROUND AT CENTERLINEFINISHED GRADE AT CENTERLINE
FINISHED GRADE AT CENTERLINE FINISHED GRADE AT CENTERLINE
POND RETENTION
EL: 6488.2
15% SEDIMENT TRAP
EL: 6487.00
3:1 3:1
3:1
4:1 3:1 3:1
POND RETENTION
EL: 6488.2
POND RETENTION
EL: 6488.2
Q:\!2021\UT-LD-3682-21 Summit County Land & Justice Campus\Project Data\02 CAD\2.03 Sheet Files\Construction Drawings\UT-LD-3682 PP6-1 RD EXT POND.dwg  - C8.8 -   10/18/2023  04:08pm,  justin.smith
1 5
REVISIONS
REV # DATE
DRAWING INFO
DATE
DESIGNED
DRAWN
*SEE GENERAL NOTES SHEET
WARNING
0 1 2
IF THIS BAR DOES NOT
MEASURE 2" THEN
DRAWING IS NOT TO SCALE
www.horrocks.com
PAGE
C
PROJECT
CHECKED
D
B
A
#
2 3 4
4905 South 1500 West, Suite 100
Riverdale, UT 84405
(801) 621-1025
9803098-2202
PRICE
U
PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER
TO F
AH
ETATS 6/23/22
TREVOR N.
UT-LD-3682
TP
JS
JS
06/23/2022
0 20' 40'
HRZ SCALE: 1" = 20'
VRT SCALE: 1" = 10'
 
 
 
 
 
ROAD EXTENSION POND CROSS SECTIONS
FJ GILLMOR SUBDIVISION
SILVER CREEK DRIVE AND OLD HWY 40, SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
48
C8.8
4 10/18/2023
4
68
95
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
e
t
e
t
fo
e
fo
JUSTICE
CENTER RD
EV
EV
EV
EV
VAN
VAN
VAN
VAN
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
1 3
1"
2 9.58
112"
24.9 3
112"
6.75 4
1"
3 5
1"
9.27 6
1"
XX
6300 JUSTICE CENTER RD, PARK CITY, UT 84098
375 WEST 200 SOUTH
SALT LAKE CITY, UT  84101
801.521.8600P
www.gsbsarchitects.comNOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
0' 10' 20' 30' 40'60'
101102103
104105
GSBS
ARCHITECTS
OWNER PROJECT NO.:
GSBS PROJECT NO.:
ISSUED DATE:
REV
SUMMIT COUNTY-
SO/AO
EXPANSION
BUILDING
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
APPLICATION
04/09/2024
2021.034.06
A
LI100
OVERALL IRRIGATION PLAN
SCALE: 1" = 40'-0"
LI100
OVERALL IRRIGATION PLAN
69
96
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
e
t
e
t
fo
e
fo
JUSTICE
CENTER RD
12'-0"
SETBACK
30'-0"
SETBACK
30'-0" SETBACK12'-0"SETBACK
29'-6"
12'-0" SETBACK
30'-0" SETBACK
12'-0" SETBACK
30'-0" SETBACK
EV
EV
EV
EV
26'-0"
VAN
VAN
VAN
VAN
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
100YR
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
HWM
EXISTING JAIL AND
SHERIFF OFFICE
EXISTING DISTRICT
COURTHOUSE
NEW COUNTY
ATTORNEY AND
SHERIFF OFFICE
PAINTBRUSH DR.
EXISTING SERVICE ROAD
6300 JUSTICE CENTER RD, PARK CITY, UT 84098
375 WEST 200 SOUTH
SALT LAKE CITY, UT  84101
801.521.8600P
www.gsbsarchitects.comNOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
0' 20' 40' 60' 80'120' 0' 10' 20' 30' 40'60'
101102103
104105
GSBS
ARCHITECTS
OWNER PROJECT NO.:
GSBS PROJECT NO.:
ISSUED DATE:
REV
SUMMIT COUNTY-
SO/AO
EXPANSION
BUILDING
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
APPLICATION
04/09/2024
2021.034.06
LP100
A
LP100
OVERALL PLANTING PLAN
SCALE: 1" = 40'-0"
LP100
OVERALL PLANTING
PLAN
70
97
e
t
e
t
fo
e
fo
87 sf
EV
EV
EV
EV
e
EXISTING SERVICE ROAD
PAINTBRUSH ROAD
EXISTING JAIL AND
SHERIFF OFFICE
EXISTING
DISTRICT
COURTHOUSE
NEW COUNTY
ATTORNEY AND
SHERIFF OFFICE
EX. HELIPAD
EX. GUN RANGE
SNOW STORAGE AREA:
5,469 SF
SNOW STORAGE
AREA: 3,453 SF
JUSTICE CENTER RD
EX.
STRUCTURE
EX. STRUCTURE
EX. DETENTION POND. REF. CIVIL
CONNECTOR ROAD AND
SIDEWALK, REF. CIVIL
(NOT IN SCOPE)
GRAVEL TRAILERPARKING AREA
SNOW STORAGE
AREA: 2,551 SF
LANDSCAPE AREA:
247 SF
LANDSCAPE AREA:
203 SF
PARKING LOT AREA:
590 SF
LANDSCAPE AREA:
285 SF
PARKING LOT AREA:
1,174 SF
LANDSCAPE AREA:
1,157 SF
LANDSCAPE AREA:
57 SF
LANDSCAPE AREA:
80 SF
PARKING LOT AREA:
20,421 SF
LANDSCAPE AREA:
190 SF
LANDSCAPE AREA:
158 SF
LANDSCAPE AREA:
338 SF
PARKING LOT AREA:
25,265 SF
LANDSCAPE AREA:
3,880 SF
PARKING LOT AREA:
637 SF
LANDSCAPE AREA:
332 SF
PARKING LOT AREA:
755 SF
LANDSCAPE AREA:
1,186 SF
EXISTING
SECURED
PARKING LOT
EXISTING PUBLIC
PARKING LOT
EXPANDED PUBLIC
PARKING LOT
LANDSCAPE AREA:
87 SF
LANDSCAPE AREA:
2,000 SF
PAVED AREASSF% OF AREA
TOTAL UNCOVERED PARKING LOT 59,535 SF
SNOW STORAGE11,473 SF 19.27%
PARKING LANDSCAPE    9,961 SF 16.73%
PARKING STALLS
NO NEW PARKING STALLS REQUIRED BASED ON VISITOR AND EMPLOYEE SHIFTS
154 EXISTING STALLS
-11 TO BE DEMOLISHED
-1 TO BE CONVERTED TO A STRIPED ADA ACCESS AISLE
+3 NEW PARKING STALLS ADDED
+2 PARKING STALLS RECOVERED BY RELOCATING EXISTING DUMPSTER
                                                                                                                  
147 TOTAL STALLS
PARKING STALL SIZE = 9' X 18'
6300 JUSTICE CENTER RD, PARK CITY, UT 84098
375 WEST 200 SOUTH
SALT LAKE CITY, UT  84101
801.521.8600P
www.gsbsarchitects.comNOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
0' 20' 40' 60' 80'120'
101102103
104105
GSBS
ARCHITECTS
OWNER PROJECT NO.:
GSBS PROJECT NO.:
ISSUED DATE:
REV
SUMMIT COUNTY-
SO/AO
EXPANSION
BUILDING
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
APPLICATION
04/09/2024
2021.034.06
AS100
1
AS106
OVERALL AREA BOUNDARIES PLAN
SCALE: 1" = 40'-0"
AS106
OVERALL AREA
BOUNDARIES PLAN
PARKING LOT
PARKING LOT LANDSCAPE
SNOW STORAGE
LEGEND                                                     
71
98
375 WEST 200 SOUTH
P  801.541.8600
REVISIONS:
1 4/8/2024
2 4/22/2024
REV
4/8/24
2021.034.06
EXTERIOR SIGNAGE
1
SO/AO
BUILDING
County Attorney & 
Sheriﬀ’s Oﬃce
County Jail & 
Juvenile Court
24/7 Substance Check
3’ TALL, 1’6” WIDE 
MONUMENT BASE:
STONE VENEER TO MATCH
BUILDING EXTERIOR
10” DEEP ALUMINUM FABRICATED BOX. 
EXTERIOR GRADE PAINT--MATHEWS 
PAINT OR EQUIVELANT. COLOR: DARK 
BRONZE. SATIN FINISH.
10” DEEP ALUMINUM 
FABRICATED BOX. 
PAINTED DARK BRONZE.
5-3/4” HEIGHT 2” DEEP FABRICATED ALUMINUM 
LETTERS. STUD MOUNTED TO THE BOX BEHIND 
WITH 1” GAP. BRUSHED ALUMINUM FINISH ON ALL 
SURFACE. INTERNALLY LIT WITH LED LIGHTS.  
CONSEAL ALL ELECTRICAL WIRES AND EQUIPMENT 
IN THE BOX BEHIND. 
TYPE A - SIDE VIEW
3’ TALL, 8’-10” WIDE MONUMENT BASE:
STONE VENEER TO MATCHBUILDING EXTERIOR
GREY STONE VENEER CAP
SEE LANDSCAPE AND PLANTING PLAN 
FOR SIGNAGE SURROUNDING AREA.
1’6” TALL, 5’6” WIDE 
MONUMENT BASE:
STONE VENEER TO MATCH
BUILDING EXTERIOR
4” DEEP ALUMINUM 
FABRICATED BOX. 
PAINTED DARK BRONZE.
TYPE B - SIDE VIEW
4”
3’10”
GREY STONE VENEER CAP
1’6”
2’
2”
9” TALL, 1’4” WIDE 
MONUMENT BASE:
STONE VENEER TO MATCH
BUILDING EXTERIOR
4” DEEP ALUMINUM 
FABRICATED BOX. 
PAINTED DARK BRONZE.
SIGN TYPE C - SIDE VIEW
4”
2’
GREY STONE VENEER CAP
9”
1’4”
2”
4” HEIGHT 2“ DEEP ALUMINUM LETTER. 
PIN MOUNTED TO THE BOX SURFACE. 
2”STAND OFF BETWEEN THE LETTERS 
AND THE BOX SURFACE.
FINISH: BRUSHED ALUMINUM.
MONUMENT BASE: 1’6” TALL, 5’4” WIDE
STONE VENEER TO MATCH BUILDING 
EXTERIOR
2” HEIGHT GREY STONE VENEER CAP
4” DEEP ALUMINUM FABRICATED BOX. 
EXTERIOR GRADE PAINT--MATHEWS 
PAINT OR EQUIVELANT. COLOR: DARK 
BRONZE. SATIN FINISH.
4” HEIGHT 1/4” DEEP CUTOUT SOLID 
ALUMINUM LETTERS.  STUD MOUNTED 
TO THE BOX BEHIND WITH 1” GAP. 
BRUSHED ALUMINUM FINISH ON ALL 
SURFACE. INTERNALLY LIT WITH LED 
LIGHTS.  CONSEAL ALL ELECTRICAL 
WIRES AND EQUIPMENT IN THE BOX 
BEHIND. 
SEE LANDSCAPE AND PLANTING 
PLAN FOR SIGNAGE 
SURROUNDING AREA.X
MONUMENT BASE: 1’6” TALL, 5’4” WIDE
STONE VENEER TO MATCH BUILDING 
EXTERIOR
2” HEIGHT GREY STONE VENEER CAP
LETTERS AND ARROWS CUTOUT AND 
BACKED WITH 3/8” WHITE ACRYLIC 
PANEL. 
4” DEEP ALUMINUM FABRICATED BOX. 
EXTERIOR GRADE PAINT--MATHEWS 
PAINT OR EQUIVELANT. COLOR: DARK 
BRONZE. SATIN FINISH.
METAL STRUCTURE 
FRAMING INSIDE. 
ACCOMMODATE 
CASING FOR THE LED 
LIGHTING.
DISTRICT COURTHOUSE
COUNTY ATTORNEY
& SHERIFF’S OFFICE
COUNTY JAIL /
THIRD DISTRICT JUVENILE COURT
SUMMIT COUNTY
JUSTICE CENTER
6300 JUSTICE CENTER ROAD
County Attorney & 
Sheriﬀ’s Oﬃce
County Jail & 
Juvenile Court
District Courthouse
4” DEEP ALUMINUM FABRICATED BOX. 
EXTERIOR GRADE PAINT--MATHEWS 
PAINT OR EQUIVELANT. COLOR: DARK 
BRONZE. SATIN FINISH.
C1
3'-6"
2"
3'-0"
2'-0"
EXTERIOR SIGN TYPE 
LEGEND:
MONUMENT SIGNAGE & BUILDING EXTERIOR SIGNAGE
ENLARGED SITE PLAN - EXTERIOR SIGNAGE LOCATIONS
PAINTED BRUSH ROAD
NOT TO SCALE 
SIGN TYPE A - LARGE EXTERIOR MONUMENT - DOUBLE SIDED
NOT TO SCALE
SIGN TYPE B - SMALL EXTERIOR MONUMENT - SINGLE SIDED
NOT TO SCALE
SIGN TYPE C - EXTERIOR WAYFINIDNG SIGN
C2
NOT TO SCALE  |  SINGLE SIDED SIGNAGE
SIGN TYPE A
SIGN TYPE B
SIGN TYPE C
LARGE EXTERIOR MONUMENT
SMALL EXTERIOR MONUMENT
WAYFINDING SIGNAGE
A1
A
B1
B
C
2” HEIGHT GREY STONE VENEER CAP
+ DISPLAY LETTERS
▪ FABRICATED ALUMINUM CHANNEL LETTERS
▪ INTERNALLY LIT(BACK LIT) WITH LED LIGHTS
▪ 5-3/4” HEIGHT, 2” DEPTH 
▪ FONT: GOTHAM BOLD 
▪ BRUSHED ALUMINUM SURFACE AND SIDES 
▪ LETTERS MOUNTED TO THE BACK PANEL WITH 2”GAP/STAND OFF
+ ADDRESS LETTERS
▪ FABRICATED ALUMINUM CHANNEL LETTERS
▪ INTERNALLY LIT(BACK LIT) WITH LED LIGHTS
▪ 4“ HEIGHT, 2” THICKNESS 
▪ FONT: GOTHAM NARROW BOLD  
▪ BRUSHED ALUMINUM SURFACE AND SIDES 
▪ LETTERS MOUNTED TO THE BACK PANEL WITH 
2”GAP/STAND OFF
C1
C2
5'-0"
5'-4"
5'-6"
3'-10"
4"
2"1'-6"
3'-6"
2"9"
3'-4"
3'-0"
7'-8"
5 3/4"
8'-4"
2"
3'-3"
6"6"
6" 6"
2"
10"
1'-6"
3'-0"
3'-0"
2'-0"
1
1
MONUMENT BASE: 1’6” TALL, 5’4” WIDE
STONE VENEER TO MATCH BUILDING 
EXTERIOR
2” HEIGHT GREY STONE VENEER CAP
LETTERS AND ARROWS CUTOUT AND 
BACKED WITH 3/8” WHITE ACRYLIC 
PANEL. 
METAL STRUCTURE 
FRAMING INSIDE. 
ACCOMMODATE 
CASING FOR THE LED 
LIGHTING.
2'-7 3/4"
9"
2
2
72
99
e
t
e
t
fo
fo
EV
EV
EV
EV
VAN
VAN
VAN
VAN
e
E E
B1
B1
B1
B1
B1SB1
SB1
SB1
B1
B1
B1
B1
B1
B1
B1
W1
W1
W1
FP1
UTILITY TRANSFORMER
METER AND MAIN SERVICE DISCONNECT
GEN DIST PANEL
GEN QUICK CONNECT PANEL
GENERATOR
A1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1 W1
UTILITY TRANSFORMER (E)
A1
B1
B1
B1 A1A1
A2 A2
A1
A2 A2 A2
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
A1
A1
A1
A1
A1 A1 A1
A1
A1
A1
A1
A1
A1
A2
A1
A1
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLEUPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
UPGRADED LIGHT POLE
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1
W1W1
W1
W1
W1
UPGRADED WALL MOUNTED LIGHT
UPGRADED WALL MOUNTED LIGHT
UPGRADED WALL MOUNTED LIGHT
UPGRADED WALL MOUNTED LIGHT
UPGRADED WALL 
MOUNTED LIGHT
UPGRADED WALL MOUNTED LIGHT
UPGRADED WALL MOUNTED LIGHT
UPGRADED WALL MOUNTED LIGHT
UPGRADED WALL MOUNTED LIGHT
UPGRADED WALL MOUNTED LIGHT
W1
W1
W1
UPGRADED WALL MOUNTED LIGHT
UPGRADED WALL MOUNTED LIGHT
UPGRADED WALL MOUNTED LIGHT
UPGRADED WALL MOUNTED LIGHT
W1
W1
UPGRADED WALL MOUNTED LIGHT
240 E. MORRIS AVE. SUITE 200
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84115
P (801) 534-1130
F (801) 534-1080
www.envisioneng.com
375 WEST 200 SOUTH
SALT LAKE CITY, UT  84101
801.521.8600
801.521.791
P
F
www.gsbsarchitects.com
OWNER PROJECT NO.:
GSBS PROJECT NO.:
ISSUED DATE:
REVISIONS:
REV REV
2/29/24
2021.034.06
SITE PLAN - LIGHTING
SUMMIT COUNTY -
SO/AO
EXPANSION
BUILDING
6300 Justice Center Rd, Park City, UT 84098
DESIGN DEVELOPMENT
ES101ES101
SCALE: 1" = 30'-0"
SITE PLAN -ELECTRICAL1
SITE GENERAL NOTES:
1. PROVIDE ALL REQUIRED BACKFILLING, ETC. FOR ALL CONDUITS, 
PROVIDE REQUIRED BACKFILL MATERIAL AS DIRECTED BY EACH 
UTILITY.
2. COORDINATE ALL LOCATIONS AND ROUTING WORK IN THE FIELD.
3. ROUTE CONDUITS A MINIMUM OF 2' BELOW THE BUILDING FLOOR SLAB.
4. MINIMUM CONDUIT FOR SITE WORK SHALL BE 1".
5. CONDUIT ROUTING SHOWN IS SCHEMATIC AND FOR CLARIFICATION 
COORDINATE LOCATION WITH ALL AFFECTED TRADES.
6. PROVIDE A MINIMUM OF 12" SEPARATION BETWEEN POWER AND 
COMMUNICATION CONDUITS.
7. ALL CONDUITS THAT EXTEND THROUGH CONCRETE SHALL BE 
GALVANIZED RIGID CONDUIT AND WRAPPED WITH TWO (2) LAYERS OF 
PVC TAPE.
8. ALL ELBOWS THAT ARE UNDER THE FINISHED GRADE SHALL BE 
GALVANIZED RIGID CONDUIT AND WRAPPED WITH TWO (2) LAYERS OF 
PVC TAPE.
LIGHT FIXTURE SCHEDULE - EXTERIOR LIGHTING
TYPE DESCRIPTION SOURCE
ELECTRICAL APPROVED
MANUFACTURERS
CATALOG INFORMATION
CATALOG NUMBER / SERIES COMMENTS / NOTESVOLTAGE LOAD
A1 SINGLE HEAD LED AREA LIGHT WITH TYPE 3
DISTRIBUTION
FULL CUTOFF AND INTEGRATED MOTION SENSOR
POLE: 12' SQUARE POLE
LED
2106 LUMENS
3000K
120 V 18 NLS LIGHTING (OR APPROVED
EQUAL)
NV1-1-16L-35-30K
A2 DOUBLE HEAD LED AREA LIGHT WITH TYPE 3
DISTRIBUTION
FULL CUTOFF AND INTEGRATED MOTION SENSOR
LED
2106 LUMENS
3000K
120 V 36 NLS LIGHTING (OR APPROVED
EQUAL)
NV1-1-16L-35-30K
B1 3' LED SQUARE BOLLARD
WITH FULL CUTOFF
LED
470 LUMENS
3000K
120 V 8 LANDSCAPE FORMS (OR
APPROVED EQUAL)
BW101 T4 30K UV1 * - ARCHITECT TO SELECT STANDARD
COLOR FINISH
FP1 POLE TOP MOUNTED FLAGPOLE DOWNLIGHT WITH
REMOTE LED DRIVER AND FULL CUTOFF
LED
1000 LUMENS
3000K
120 V 13 EAGLE MOUNTAIN FLAG AND
FLAGPOLE
SG 3K IHR BRZ M BRZ100
SB1 LED ROUND SECURITY RATED LIGHTED BOLLARDS
FULL CUTOFF
LED
995 LUMENS
3000K
120 V 41 LIGMAN (OR APPROVED EQUAL) UCO-10127 41WCOB 1 W30 * A13591 * - ARCHITECT TO SELECT STANDARD
COLOR FINISH
W1 WALL MOUNTED LED AREA LIGHT WITH TYPE 3
DISTRIBUTION
FULL CUTOFF
LED
1944 LUMENS
3000K
120 V 18 NLS LIGHTING (OR APPROVED
EQUAL)
TWA-16L-35-30K WALL MOUNTED LIGHTS SHALL BE
INSTALLED NO MORE THAN 12' ABOVE
GROUND
73
100
W1 W1 W1
12' - 0"
W1 W1 W1 W1
D4
12' - 0"
12' - 0"
12' - 0"
W1
W1
W1 W1 W1 W1 W1 W1
W1 W1
12' - 0"
W1W1W1
W1 W1
D4 D4
240 E. MORRIS AVE. SUITE 200
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84115
P (801) 534-1130
F (801) 534-1080
www.envisioneng.com
375 WEST 200 SOUTH
SALT LAKE CITY, UT  84101
801.521.8600
801.521.791
P
F
www.gsbsarchitects.com
OWNER PROJECT NO.:
GSBS PROJECT NO.:
ISSUED DATE:
REVISIONS:
REV REV
2/29/24
2021.034.06
ELEVATION VIEWS
SUMMIT COUNTY -
SO/AO
EXPANSION
BUILDING
6300 Justice Center Rd, Park City, UT 84098
DESIGN DEVELOPMENT
EL401EL401
SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"
NORTH ELEVATION VIEW 11
SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"
NORTH ELEVATION VIEW 22
SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"
WEST ELEVATION VIEW3
SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"
EAST ELEVATION VIEW4
SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"
SOUTH ELEVATION VIEW5
74
101
2'-6"
5'-9" MIN
2'-6"
12'-0"
  37' MIN FROM
PROPERTY LINE
TRANSFORMER PADVAULT DIMENSION CHART (2.4-25 KV)
TRANSFORMER
RATING
75-750 KVA
1000-2500 KVA
DIMENSIONS
B SI #C D EA
56" 48" 44" 42" 56" 7992600
84" 54" 72" 48" 62" 7992958
COORDINATE ALL REQUIREMENTS WITH
RMP.  REFER TO RMP PUBLICATION ZG-521
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
3'-0"
3'-0" 3'-0"
3'-0"
PAD
BLOCKOUT
KEEP THIS AREA CLEARKEEP THIS AREA CLEAR
10'-0"
10'-0" 10'-0"
10'-0" RADIUS
NOTE: TRANSFORMER PAD CLEARANCES
• TRANSFORMERS IN EQUIPMENT YARDS MUST MEET ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS. 
• SEE RMP ESR WHITEPAPER FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
STAINLESS STEEL BOLT
STAINLESS STEEL 
HOLD DOWN CLEAT STAINLESS STEEL 
BELLWILLE WASHER
HOLD DOWN CLEAT DETAIL
1 1/4" X 2 1/2" STAINLESS STEEL HOLD-DOWN CLEAT - 2 REQ'D.
3/8" X 1 1/4" STAINLESS STEEL BOLT - 2 REQ'D.
3/8" STAINLESS STEEL BELLVILLE WASHER - 2 REQ'D.
12" DIA. HDPE SUMP
A
84"
1/2" DIA. GROUNDING INSERTS
4 EA. REQ'D.
(2 EA. OUTSIDE WALLS
2 EA. INSIDE WALLS)
2.38" DIA. TERM-A-DUCTS
2 EA. REQ'D.
(1 EA. NEAR WALL
1 EA. FAR WALL)
5.57" DIA. TERM-A-DUCTS
8 EA. REQ'D.
(4 EA. NEAR WALL
4 EA. FAR WALL)
D
B
C
5'-8" LONG GALV. "C" CHANNEL 
2 EA. REQ'D. 
(1 EA. NEAR & FAR WALLS)
72"
BASE
8,081 LBS.
4.5" DIA. TERM-A-DUCTS
14 EA. REQ'D.
(7 EA. NEAR WALL
7 EA. FAR WALL)
GALV. PULL IRON
4 EA. REQ'D.
(1 EA. CORNER)
2'-0" LONG GALV. "C" CHANNEL
4 EA. REQ'D.
(1 EA. WALL)
3.51" DIA. TERM-A-DUCT
1 EA. REQ'D.
FULL 180° OPEN 
(TYPICAL) 
TOP
PCORP #7992600 - SI #1790023
3,650 LBS.
112"
3/8" DIA. INSERTS W/
HOLD DOWN CLEATS
2 EA. REQ'D. 
(SEE DETAIL 1)
16" X 60" BLOCKOUT
NO. 25P GALV. DIAMOND PLATE 
DOORS W/ LOCKING BOLTS
84"
8"
E
NOTES:
1. COORDINATE ALL REQUIREMENTS WITH ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER PRIOR 
TO INSTALLATION.  REFER TO ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER DOCUMENTS GV 
001 AND ZG 301 FOR GENERAL INFORMATION REGARDING EQUIPMENT 
BASES AND INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
2. REBAR REFER TO ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER MATERIAL SPECIFICATION 
ZG 531 FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON PRE-CAST PAD VAULTS.
3'-0"3'-0"
WINDOW
10'-0"
KEEP THIS 
AREA 
CLEAR
NO PAD IN 
THIS AREA
10'-0" 10'-0"
DOOR
20'-0"
PROVIDE IN-LINE WATERPROOF
FUSE HOLDER WITH BREAKAWAY 
CONNECTIONS AND FUSE
BASE PLATE AND ANCHOR BOLTS
BY LIGHT POLE MANUFACTURER
3/4" CHAMFER
A A
2'-0"
#3 TIES AT 6" O.C.
ANCHOR BOLT
HAND RUB FINISHED
(3) TIES IN TOP 6" OF PIER
DOUBLE NUT LEVELING SYSTEM
GROUT ENTIRE AREA UNDER
PLATE PROVIDE A MINIMUM ONE 
WEAP HOLE PER SIDE
GROUND LUG WITH #8 AWG
SOLID CU TO REBAR IN FOOTING
GRC ELBOW (TYP.)
GROUND LUG
PVC SCH 40 CONDUIT
SEE DRAWINGS FOR SIZE
(8) #5 VERTICAL BARS
2'-6"
DEPTH
24" MIN.
EXTERIOR SLAB
OR GRADE
CAP SPARE
CONDUIT AT EACH
DEAD END POLE
6"
A
24"
24"24"
8"W X 3"D CONCRETE MOW STRIP AS
REQUIRED FOR PLANTING AREAS
EDGE OF SIDEWALK OR
BACK OF CURB
CONNECT GROUND TO POLE BASE WITH 
BURNDY #GB4C ENSURE THAT ALL METAL 
PARTS INCLUDING FIXTURE, POLE AND POLE 
BASE ARE BONDED TOGETHER PER NEC 
USING #8 AWG SOLID CU MINIMUM.
NOTE: DESIGN SHOWN FOR CONCRETE POLE BASE IS SHOW 
FOR INFORMATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY TO CONVEY THE 
NECESSARY REQUIREMENTS. CONTRACTOR SHALL BE 
REQUIRED TO PROVIDE A POLE BASE DESIGN AND ASSOCIATED 
STRUCTURAL CALCULATIONS AND SUBMIT THEM AS A 
DEFERRED SUBMITTAL FOR REVIEW. THE DESIGN SHALL BE 
STAMPED BY A STRUCTURAL ENGINEER LICENSED IN THE 
STATE OF UTAH, AND SHALL BE BASED UPON THE ACTUAL
POLES, FIXTURES, SOIL CONDITIONS, WIND SPEED, ETC.NEAR SIDEWALK 
(PLANTING AREAS)
PLANTING AREA
NEAR SIDEWALK 
(HARDSCAPE AREAS)
NEAR BICYCLE PATH 
(PLANTING AREAS)
NEAR BICYCLE PATH 
(HARDSCAPE AREAS)
PARKING LOT (INTERIOR TO 
LOT OR WITHIN 24" OF BACK 
OF PARKING LOT CURB)
ROADWAY
LIGHT POLE MOW STRIP AND CONCRETE BASE REQUIREMENTS
MOW STRIP 
REQUIRED 
(6"W X3"D)
YES
YES
NO
NO
NO
NO
NO
BASE HEIGHT 
ABOVE GRADE 
(INCHES) 
12
12
12
12
12
30
12
DISTANCE FROM SIDEWALK 
BICYCLE PATH, OR BACK OF 
CURB "A" (INCHES)
PAINTED 
YELLOW
N/A
6
6
18
18
24
12
NO
NO
NO
NO
NO
YES
NO
CONCRETE
POLE BASE
EXTERIOR SLAB
OR GRADE
SECTION A-A
DESIGN CRITERIA:
2018 IBC
Ss = 2.0, SOIL SITE CLASS D
LATERAL SOIL BRG = 100 PS/FT
ASSUMED 4.0 FT2 AT TOP POLE
POLE
HEIGHT
FTG
DEPTH
FTG
DEPTH
V ult =
115 MPH
V ult =
150 MPH
8'-0" 4'-0" 4'-0"
12'-0" 4'-0" 5'-0"
20'-0" 5'-0" 6'-0"
30'-0" 6'-0" 7'-0"
40'-0" 6'-0" 8'-0"
60'-0" ? ?
MOW 
STRIP
MOW 
STRIP
T8
T5
T2
T7
T4
T3
12" MIN.
24" MIN. 48" MAX.
T1
T5
T2
T7
T4
T3
12" MIN.
24" MIN.
T8
TRENCHING GENERAL NOTES: TRENCHING KEYED NOTES:
1. PROVIDE PULL 1/4" NYLON ROPES IN ALL CONDUITS.
2. IN JOINT USE TRENCHES, HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL 
SEPARATION BETWEEN CONDUIT SHALL BE 
MAINTAINED BY INSTALLING HIGH IMPACT SPACERS 
WITH HORIZONTAL INTERVALS OF EIGHT FEET.
3. ALL MARKER TAPE SHALL CONTAIN #10 TRACER WIRE.
4. VERIFY ALL REQUIREMENTS WITH NV ENERGY PRIOR 
TO TRENCHING.
1. MARKER TAPE WITH TRACER WIRE LABELED, "CAUTION 
BURIED ELECTRIC CONDUITS BELOW" DIRECTLY OVER 
POWER CONDUITS 6" MINIMUM BELOW GRADE.
2. CLEAN BACKFILL CONTAINING NO ROCKS LARGER 
THAN 4" DIA.
3. BACKFILL MATERIAL WITHIN 4" TO 6" OF CONDUIT SHALL 
PASS THROUGH A 3/4" SLEVE FRAME OR SAND 
WITHOUT ANY SHARP OR FOREIGN OBJECTS.
4. ALL CONDUITS SHOWN SHALL BE SCHEDULE 40 PVC; 
SEE ES101 AND ONE-LINE DIAGRAMS FOR SIZES.
5. UNDISTURBED EARTH.
6. MARKER TAPE WITH TRACER WIRE LABELED, "CAUTION 
BURIED DATA/COMMUNICATION CONDUIT BELOW" 
DIRECTLY OVER DATA/COMMUNICATION CONDUITS.
7. TRENCHES SHALL BE A UNIFORM DEPTH FOR ENTIRE 
LENGTH OF TRENCH SO CONDUITS CAN SIT FLAT 
(HORIZONTAL) WITH THE GROUND.
8. FINISHED GRADE.
240 E. MORRIS AVE. SUITE 200
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84115
P (801) 534-1130
F (801) 534-1080
www.envisioneng.com
375 WEST 200 SOUTH
SALT LAKE CITY, UT  84101
801.521.8600
801.521.791
P
F
www.gsbsarchitects.com
OWNER PROJECT NO.:
GSBS PROJECT NO.:
ISSUED DATE:
REVISIONS:
REV REV
2/29/24
2021.034.06
SITE DETAILS
SUMMIT COUNTY -
SO/AO
EXPANSION
BUILDING
6300 Justice Center Rd, Park City, UT 84098
DESIGN DEVELOPMENT
EG504EG504
SCALE: NTS
ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER TRANSFORMER PAD VAULT1SCALE: NTS
POLE BASE DETAIL2
SCALE: NTS
TRENCHING DETAIL - RMP CONDUITS3SCALE: NTS
TRENCHING DETAIL -SITE LIGHTING AND POWER BRANCH CIRCUITS4
SCALE: NTS
TRENCHING DETAIL -NOTES5 SCALE: NTS
POLE ELEVATION DETAIL6
75
102
12'-0"
W1
12'-0"
W1
12'-0"
W1
12'-0"
W1
W1
76
103
W1
12'-0"
W1
W1
12'-0"
77
104
AGENDA ITEM NO. 3
Staff Report
 
 
DATE:
June 11, 2024
SUBMITTED BY:
Jennifer Strader, Community Development
ITEM TYPE:
Recommendation
AGENDA SECTION:
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
SUBJECT:
Public Hearing, Possible Recommendation for an amendment to
chapter 6.1, Moderate Income Housing, of the Snyderville Basin
General Plan. Elyse Kats, Economic Development and Housing
Manager & Jennifer Strader, Senior Planner.
SUGGESTED ACTION:
ESTIMATED TIME:
INTRODUCTION:
BACKGROUND:
CONCLUSION:
 
 
 
SNYDERVILLE BASIN PLANNING COMMISSION AGENDA ITEM REPORT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENTS:
105
AGENDA ITEM NO. 4
Staff Report
 
 
DATE:
June 11, 2024
SUBMITTED BY:
Ray Milliner, Planning
ITEM TYPE:
Ordinance
AGENDA SECTION:
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
SUBJECT:
**THIS PUBLIC HEARING HAS BEEN CANCELLED AND WILL BE RE-
NOTICED FOR JUNE 25, 2024** Public Hearing and Possible
Recommendation to the County Council for amendments to Chapter
10-3 Development Application and Procedure Process, and Chapter
10-2-18 Master Planned Developments. Legislative Process.
Ray Milliner, 
Principal Planner.
 
SUGGESTED ACTION:
ESTIMATED TIME:
INTRODUCTION:
BACKGROUND:
CONCLUSION:
 
 
 
SNYDERVILLE BASIN PLANNING COMMISSION AGENDA ITEM REPORT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENTS:
Staff_Report_June_11__2024 SUBDIVISIONS JS edits.doc
106
Community Development Department
P.O. Box 128
60 North Main Street
Coalville, Utah 84017
summitcounty.org
STAFF REPORT
To: Snyderville Basin Planning Commission 
From: Ray Milliner
Date of Meeting: June 11, 2024
Type of Item: Code Amendment - Public Hearing, Possible Recommendation
Process: Legislative Review
RECOMMENDATION:  Staff recommends that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission 
review the proposed amendments to Chapter 10-3 of the Snyderville Basin Development Code
conduct a public hearing and forward a positive recommendation to the County Council per the 
findings of fact and conclusions of law in this staff report. 
PURPOSE
The purpose of this ordinance is to bring the Snyderville Basin Development Code into 
compliance with the changes to state code made in through Senate Bill 174 during the 2023 
legislative session.  The bill requires that the County have the amendments in place prior to 
February 1, 2024. The Council adopted a temporary land use regulation on January 31, 2024. 
The temporary land use ordinance expires on July 31, 2024, which means permanent 
amendments must be in place prior to that date. 
BACKGROUND
Subdivision SB-174 summary
SB-174 is a mandate from the State that requires all cities and counties amend their subdivision 
ordinance in a way that would streamline the subdivision process.  Highlights include:
1. SB-174 amends the subdivision process for all single-family, two family and townhome 
developments. 
2. The Council can decide whether they would like to include other types of subdivisions, 
or leave the process as is (I.E. condos, commercial subdivisions, multifamily etc.).  
3. Requires that we designate an administrative land use authority for review and approval 
of Preliminary and Final Subdivision reviews.
4. The Planning Commission may be the land use authority for preliminary subdivision
reviews, but not for final subdivision reviews.
107
2
5. The Planning Commission may conduct one public hearing for a preliminary subdivision 
review. Multiple public hearings are not allowed. 
6. Neither the County Council nor a member of the Council may be the land use authority. 
7. The authority can be an individual, board, or commission appointed by the County 
including staff. 
8. The County may combine the final subdivision application with the preliminary 
subdivision application. 
9. Final subdivision review cycle restrictions apply to concurrent processing. 
10. Creates a specific review cycle with no more than four cycles permitted. 
11. Creates an appeal process for applicants if the County fails to meet the cycle criteria. 
Summary of Proposed Changes
The following changes were made to bring the existing Code into compliance with the new 
state requirements:
1. Created definition of “review cycle,” “subdivision improvement plans,” “subdivision 
review,” and “subdivision plan review.” These definitions were taken from state code. 
2. Eliminates process for “subdivision with 3 or fewer lots” and “subdivision with four or 
more lots.” Since all subdivisions are subject to the same process under the new law, 
there was no need to separate.
3. Eliminates requirement from MPD section that subdivisions with ten or more lots be 
reviewed as an MPD.
4. Creates approval criteria for subdivisions. 
5. Creates process for Preliminary and Final Subdivisions. Planning Commission able to 
conduct one public hearing during preliminary stage, makes recommendation to the 
County Manager who would be the final approval authority. 
6. Say something about including all types of subdivisions in this section (commercial, 
multi-family, etc.).
Analysis
Section 10-7-3 of the Snyderville Basin Development Code establishes a process for 
amendments to the text of the Code. It states that whenever an amendment to the Code is 
initiated, it must be reviewed by the Planning Commission who will deliver a recommendation 
to the County Council. The County Council, after holding a public hearing, can approve, approve 
with modifications, or deny the amendment subject to the following criteria:
Criteria 1: The amendment shall be consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of the 
general plan.
Analysis: Chapter 2 of the Snyderville Basin General Plan States:
108
3
“The Goal of Chapter 2: Promote sustainable Land Use Planning Principles that 
preserve Critical Lands, maintain neighborhood character, protect the economic 
base, prevent sprawl, and provide efficient delivery of services.  
The proposed amendments to the subdivision regulations will help provide efficient 
delivery of services to applicants by streamlining the subdivision process. 
Criteria 2: The amendment shall not permit the use of land that is not consistent with the uses 
of properties nearby. COMPLIES
Analysis: The proposed amendment will ensure that new properties are consistent with 
the surrounding properties. 
Criteria 3: The amendment will not permit suitability of the properties affected by the proposed 
amendment for the uses to which they have been restricted. COMPLIES
Analysis: The amendment will not permit suitability of the properties affected by the 
proposed amendment for the uses to which they have been restricted. COMPLIES
Criteria 4: The amendment will not permit the removal of the then existing restrictions which 
will unduly affect nearby property. COMPLIES
Analysis: The proposed language will not remove any regulations that will unduly affect 
property owners in the Basin. It will amend the subdivision ordinance to bring it into 
compliance with state statute.
Criteria 5: The amendment will not grant special favors or circumstances solely for one 
property owner or developer. COMPLIES
Analysis: These amendments will affect all property owners in the Basin Planning 
District. They are not designed to aid or hinder any specific property owners. 
Criteria 6: The amendment will promote the public health, safety, and welfare better than the 
existing regulations for which the amendment is intended to change. COMPLIES
Analysis: The proposed regulations will streamline the process for reviewing subdivision 
applications and ensure consistency of application with all property owners/applicants.
Recommendation
Staff recommends that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission review the proposed 
amendments to Chapter 10-3 of the Snyderville Basin Development Code, conduct a public 
109
4
hearing, and forward a positive recommendation to the County Council per the findings of fact 
and conclusions of law in this staff report.
Findings of Fact
1. The purpose of this ordinance is to bring the Snyderville Basin Development Code into 
compliance with the changes to state code made in through Senate Bill 174 during the 
2023 legislative session.  
2. Senate bill 174 requires that the County have the amendments in place prior to 
February 1, 2024. 
3. To meet the February 1, 2024, deadline, the Council adopted a temporary land use 
regulation on January 31, 2024. 
4. The temporary land use ordinance expires on July 31, 2024, which means permanent 
amendments must be in place prior to that date. 
5. SB-174 amends the subdivision process for all single-family, two family and townhome 
developments. 
6. The Council can decide whether they would like to include other types of subdivisions, 
or leave the process as is (I.E. condos, commercial subdivisions, multifamily etc.).  
7. SB 174 requires that the County designate an administrative land use authority for 
review and approval of Preliminary and Final Subdivision reviews.
8. The Planning Commission may be the land use authority for preliminary subdivision
reviews, but not for final subdivision reviews.
9. The Planning Commission may conduct one public hearing for a preliminary subdivision 
review. Multiple public hearings are not allowed. 
10. Neither the County Council nor a member of the Council may be the land use authority. 
11. The authority can be an individual, board, or commission appointed by the County 
including staff. 
12. The County may combine the final subdivision application with the preliminary 
subdivision application. 
13. Final subdivision review cycle restrictions apply to concurrent processing. 
14. SB 174 creates a specific review cycle with no more than four cycles permitted. 
15. SB 174 creates an appeal process for applicants if the County fails to meet the cycle 
criteria. 
16. The goal of Goal of Snyderville Basin General Plan Chapter 2: Promote sustainable Land 
Use Planning Principles that preserve Critical Lands, maintain neighborhood character, 
protect the economic base, prevent sprawl, and provide efficient delivery of services.  
17. The proposed amendment will ensure that new properties are consistent with the 
surrounding properties. 
18. These amendments will affect all property owners in the Basin Planning District. They 
are not designed to aid or hinder any specific property owners. 
Conclusions of Law:
110
5
1. The amendment is consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of the General 
Plan.
2. The amendment does not permit the use of land that is not consistent with the uses of 
properties nearby.
3. The amendment does not permit suitability of the properties affected by the proposed 
amendment for the uses to which they have been restricted.
4. The amendment will not permit the removal of the then existing restrictions which will 
unduly affect nearby property.
5. The amendment will not grant special favors or circumstances solely for one property 
owner or developer.
6. The amendment is consistent with the requirements established in chapter 7 of the 
Snyderville Basin Development Code. 
7. The proposed amendment is not detrimental to public health, safety, and welfare.
Public Notice, Meetings and Comments
This item was noticed in the Park Record. No public comment has been received at the time of 
this writing. 
Attachments
Exhibit A – Proposed Ordinance with language.
111