1.
Election of Chair Pro-Tem.
2.
Public comment for items not on the agenda or pending applications.
3.
Public hearing and possible recommendation to the County Council for amendments to
Chapter 11, Definitions. The purpose of the amendments is to amend the definition of
Recreation Vehicle. Legislative Process. Project #24-164.
Laura Kuhrmeyer, County Planner.
4.
Approval of Minutes: December 10, 2024
AGENDA 
SNYDERVILLE BASIN PLANNING COMMISSION 
Tuesday, January 14, 2025
NOTICE is hereby given that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission will meet
electronically, via Zoom, and at the anchor location of Richins Auditorium
1885 W. Ute Blvd., Park City, UT 84098
(All times listed are general in nature, and are subject to change by the Board Chair)
 
You may attend in person or
 
Join Zoom webinar:
https://summitcountyut.zoom.us/j/98189226475  
OR
To listen by phone only: Dial 1-669-900-9128 or 1-253-215-8782, Webinar ID: 981 8922 6475 
 
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
 
 
 
Development Code Amendment 10-11-1 RV Definition Staff Report and Exhibits 1.14.25.pdf
 
Draft SBPC Minutes 12.10.24.pdf
Commission Items:
 Appointment of Snyderville Basin General Plan Advisory Committee.
Director Items
Adjourn
To view staff reports available at the end of the Friday before the meeting please visit
www.summitcounty.org.
 
Individuals needing special accommodations pursuant to the Americans with Disabilities Act regarding this meeting may
contact Vicki Geary, Summit County Community Development Department at (435)336-3123.
1
AGENDA ITEM NO. 1
Staff Report
 
 
DATE:
January 14, 2025
SUBMITTED BY:
Vicki Geary, Planning
ITEM TYPE:
Discussion
AGENDA SECTION:
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
SUBJECT:
Election of Chair Pro-Tem.
SUGGESTED ACTION:
ESTIMATED TIME:
INTRODUCTION:
BACKGROUND:
CONCLUSION:
 
 
 
SNYDERVILLE BASIN PLANNING COMMISSION AGENDA ITEM REPORT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENTS:
2
AGENDA ITEM NO. 2
Staff Report
 
 
DATE:
January 14, 2025
SUBMITTED BY:
Vicki Geary, Planning
ITEM TYPE:
Discussion
AGENDA SECTION:
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
SUBJECT:
Public comment for items not on the agenda or pending
applications.
SUGGESTED ACTION:
ESTIMATED TIME:
INTRODUCTION:
BACKGROUND:
CONCLUSION:
 
 
 
SNYDERVILLE BASIN PLANNING COMMISSION AGENDA ITEM REPORT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENTS:
3
AGENDA ITEM NO. 3
Staff Report
 
 
DATE:
January 14, 2025
SUBMITTED BY:
Laura Kuhrmeyer, Community Development
ITEM TYPE:
Ordinance
AGENDA SECTION:
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
SUBJECT:
Public hearing and possible recommendation to the County Council
for amendments to Chapter 11, Definitions. The purpose of the
amendments is to amend the definition of Recreation Vehicle.
Legislative Process. Project #24-164.
Laura Kuhrmeyer, County Planner.
SUGGESTED ACTION:
ESTIMATED TIME:
INTRODUCTION:
BACKGROUND:
CONCLUSION:
 
 
 
SNYDERVILLE BASIN PLANNING COMMISSION AGENDA ITEM REPORT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENTS:
Development Code Amendment 10-11-1 RV Definition Staff Report and Exhibits 1.14.25.pdf
4
 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
To:   Snyderville Basin Planning Commission 
From:   Laura Kuhrmeyer, County Planner 
Date of Meeting: January 14, 2025 
Type of Item: Snyderville Basin Development Code Amendments – Public 
Hearing/Possible Recommendation 
Process:  Legislative 
Project Number: 24-164 
 
 
Recommendation 
Staff recommends the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission (SBPC) review the proposed 
language amending Chapter 10-11 (Definitions) of the Snyderville Basin Development Code 
(Code), conduct a public hearing, and vote to forward a positive recommendation to the 
Summit County Council.  
 
Proposal 
On October 24, 2024, the Summit Planning Department received an application for a proposed 
Code Amendment to Chapter 10-11 (Definitions). The Applicant, Scott Roberts, is proposing to 
amend the existing definition of Recreation Vehicle (see redlined definition below). 
 
RECREATION VEHICLE: Any trailer, camper, van or similar vehicle less than nine feet (9') 
wide and thirty-five feet (35') long used or maintained primarily as a temporary dwelling 
for travel, vacation or recreation purposes. 
 
The only proposed change to the definition is the removal of the dimensions mentioned. The 
amendment does not affect density or other substantive development standards. The proposed 
amendment is attached as Exhibit A. 
 
The Applicant’s Letter (see Exhibit B) states that “some of the most popular RVs today are 45’ 
long.” Due to the current definition including a restriction in size smaller than today’s RVs, the 
Applicant proposes to strike the size restriction from the definition.  
 
Background 
While Recreation Vehicle is defined in Chapter 10-11, it is not listed as a Use in Section 10-2-10 
(Use Table). However, the definition for Campground (see below) includes a reference to this 
type of vehicle. 
 
5
“CAMPGROUND: An area to be used for transient occupancy by camping in tents, 
camp trailers, travel trailers, motor homes, or similar movable or temporary 
sleeping quarters of any kind.” 
 
Campground is listed as a Conditional Use in the Hillside Stewardship (HS), Mountain Remote 
(MR), and Community Commercial (CC) zones. Therefore, modifying the definition of Recreation 
Vehicle will impact any parcels zoned as HS, MR, or CC as those parcels could apply for a 
campground CUP.  
 
Analysis and Findings  
Section 10-7-3 of the Snyderville Basin Development Code states that an amendment to the 
Code must be reviewed by the Planning Commission who will deliver a recommendation to the 
County Council. The County Council, after holding a public hearing, shall approve, approve with 
modifications, or deny the amendment according to the following criteria. 
 
Criteria 1: The amendment shall be consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of the 
general plan. 
Analysis: Policy 4.2 states, “Ensure that recreation opportunities in the Basin grow in 
parallel with future growth.” 
 
The proposed Code amendment brings the defined term up to modern day standards as 
the typical and most common size of Recreation Vehicles has changed over the years. 
 
Criteria 2: The amendment shall not permit the use of land that is not consistent with the uses 
of properties nearby. 
Analysis: The proposed amendment applies to the Definitions Chapter (10-11), which is 
applicable to all land within the Snyderville Basin Planning District. 
 
Criteria 3: The amendment will not permit suitability of the properties affected by the proposed 
amendment for the uses to which they have been restricted. 
Analysis: The amendment will not permit suitability of the properties affected by the 
proposed amendment to the uses to which they have been restricted. 
 
Criteria 4: The amendment will not permit the removal of the then existing restrictions which 
will unduly affect nearby property. 
Analysis: The amendment will not permit the removal of the then existing restrictions 
which will unduly affect nearby property. 
 
Criteria 5: The amendment will not grant special favors or circumstances solely for one 
property owner or developer. 
Analysis: The amendment will impact all parcels zoned HS, MR, or CC as all will be 
eligible to apply for a campground, which includes the use of Recreation Vehicles. 
 
6
Criteria 6: The amendment will promote the public health, safety and welfare better than the 
existing regulations for which the amendment is intended to change. 
Analysis: The amendment is intended to bring the existing language in the Code up to 
date with current recreation vehicles, encouraging the promotion of health, safety, and 
welfare. 
 
Public Notice, Meetings and Comments 
Notice for a public hearing for this Code Amendment was published on January 4, 2025 in the 
Park Record and on public notice websites. No Public Input has been received at the time of 
publishing. 
 
Recommendation 
Staff recommends the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission (SBPC) review the proposed 
language amending Chapter 10-11 (Definitions) of the Snyderville Basin Development Code 
(Code), conduct a public hearing, and vote to forward a positive recommendation to the 
Summit County Council. 
 
Findings of Fact: 
1. The Applicant, Scott Roberts, is proposing to amend the existing definition of 
Recreation Vehicle (see redlined definition below). 
2. The only proposed change to the definition is the removal of the dimensions mentioned. 
3. The amendment does not affect density or other substantive development standards. 
4. The amendment applies to the entire Snyderville Basin Planning District. 
 
Conclusions of Law: 
1. The proposed amendment is consistent with the requirements established in Section 
10-7-3 of the Snyderville Basin Development Code.  
a. The proposed amendment is consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of 
the General Plan. 
b. The proposed amendment does not permit the use of land that is not consistent 
with the uses of properties nearby. 
c. The proposed amendment does not permit suitability of the properties affected 
by the proposed amendment for the uses to which they have been restricted. 
d. The proposed amendment does not permit the removal of the then existing 
restrictions which will unduly affect nearby property. 
e. The amendment will not grant special favors or circumstances solely for one 
property owner or developer. 
f. The proposed amendment is not detrimental to public health, safety, and 
welfare. 
 
Attachments 
Exhibit A: Proposed Amendments  
 Exhibit B: Applicant’s Letter 
7
EXHIBIT A 
 
Proposed Amendments to Snyderville Basin Development Code 10‐11-1 
 
10-11-1: TERMS DEFINED: 
 
[…] 
 
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Any trailer, camper, van or similar vehicle less than nine feet (9') wide 
and thirty-five feet (35') long used or maintained primarily as a temporary dwelling for travel, 
vacation or recreation purposes. 
 
[…]  
8
EXHIBIT B 
 
Dear, Summit County  
 
 
Park City RV Resort at 2200 Rasmussen Rd, Park City, UT 84098 has been in operations for 50+ 
years. It is a legally nonconforming use in Summit County. Roberts Resorts purchased Park City 
RV Resort in 2021, and the company has plans to update the aged, roads and utility 
infrastructure. Roberts Resort has been in business for 55+ years and has a reputation of 
owning and operating world class RV Resorts across the Western United States. It was recently 
brought to our attention that the defined term for “Recreational Vehicle” is outdated with the 
current RV industry standards. Summit County Recreational Vehicle definition states “less than 
nine feet (9’) wide and thirdly five (35’) long” language in the Recreational Vehicle definition. 
Some of the most popular RVs today are 45’ long. We are requesting that the unit size taken 
out of the definition, so it meets today’s recreational vehicle standards. The Summit County 
code has setback requirements in section 10-8-10 Recreational Vehicle Parks  
“Site Width: Each recreational vehicle site width shall be a minimum of twenty-five feet (25'). 
Vehicles shall be separated from each other and from any other structure by at least ten feet 
(10').”  All Park City RV Resorts sites are over 25’ wide and would not allow units to be parked 
closer than 10’ from each other.  
 
Below is the current definition and I have stricken through the size restriction out of the 
definition.  
 
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: 
 
Any trailer, camper, van or similar vehicle less than nine feet (9') wide and thirty-five feet (35') 
long used or maintained primarily as a temporary dwelling for travel, vacation or recreation 
purposes. 
 
9
AGENDA ITEM NO. 4
Staff Report
 
 
DATE:
January 14, 2025
SUBMITTED BY:
Amy Price, Clerk
ITEM TYPE:
Approval
AGENDA SECTION:
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
SUBJECT:
Approval of Minutes: December 10, 2024
SUGGESTED ACTION:
ESTIMATED TIME:
INTRODUCTION:
BACKGROUND:
CONCLUSION:
 
 
 
SNYDERVILLE BASIN PLANNING COMMISSION AGENDA ITEM REPORT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENTS:
Draft SBPC Minutes 12.10.24.pdf
10
MINUTES
SUMMIT COUNTY
Snyderville Basin Planning Commission Meeting
SHELDON RICHINS BUILDING
1885 WEST UTE BOULEVARD, PARK CITY, UT, 84098
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2024
Meeting also conducted via Zoom.
Tyann Mooney
Makena Hawley
Thomas Cooke
Matthew Nagie
Megan Recher
Lynda Viti
Ray Milliner
Laura Kuhrmeyer
Jennifer Leslie
John Davis
Brad Ross
Emily Quinton
Megan Nick
Senta Beyer
Kelbe Goupil
Amy Price
Brian Craven
DRAFT
Welcome/Attendance
Regular Session (6:03 P.M.)
1) Public input for items not on the agenda or pending applications.
(6:04 P.M.)
Commission Vice-Chair Mooney opened the meeting for public input at
6:04 p.m.
No members of the public came forward.
Commission Vice-Chair Mooney closed the meeting for public input at
6:04 p.m.
11
2) Public hearing and possible action regarding a Conditional Use
Permit for an "Accessory Dwelling Unit" within Unit 47 of the Park
East III Business Community Condominiums. 4518 Forestdale
Drive Unit 47. Parcel PEIIIBCC-47 (0.04 acres). Applicant: John
Davis, Layton Davis Architects. Owner: Smart Grid Properties LLC.
Administrative Process. Project #24-029. Laura Kuhrmeyer, County
Planner. (6:05 P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Park East 3 Unit 47 ADU Staff Report 12.10.24
Attachment: Exhibits
Laura Kuhrmeyer, Planner, presented a Conditional Use Permit for an
accessory dwelling unit for public hearing and possible action.
John Davis, Applicant, briefly introduced himself.
Commissione Members asked clarifying questions to which Mr. Davis
and Planner Kuhrmeyer responded.
Commission Vice-Chair Mooney opened the meeting for public hearing
at 6:29 p.m.
No public comment was given.
Commission Vice-Chair Mooney closed the meeting for public hearing at
6:30 p.m.
Commissioners asked additional questions about the proposed CUP.
Makena Hawley made a motion to approve the proposed ADU
according to the findings of fact, conclusions of law, and
conditions of approval in the staff report. Matthew Nagie seconded,
and the motion failed, (2-3).
Makena Hawley voted AYE
Megan Recher voted AYE
Tyann Mooney voted NAY
Thomas Cooke voted NAY
Matthew Nagie voted NAY
Discussion was held on the motion.
Commission Vice-Chair Mooney reopened the public hearing at 6:42
p.m.
Steve Stanton was called to speak.
Commission Vice-Chair Mooney closed the meeting for public hearing at
6:47 p.m.
Tyann Mooney made a motion to continue the item to a date
uncertain. Matthew Nagie seconded, and all voted in favor, (5-0).
12
3) Public hearing and action regarding a Plat Amendment proposing
to combine parcels HE-B-284-A and HE-B-285 into one (1) Lot. 6515
& 6545 N Highland Drive. Parcel HE-B-284-A (0.06 acres) & Parcel
HE-B-285 (1.61 acres). Applicants: Brad Davis and Brett & Shelly L
Botkin. Owner: Brad Davis and Brett & Shelly L Botkin.
Administrative Process. Project #24-083. Laura Kuhrmeyer, County
Planner. (6:50 P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Highland Estates 284A and 285 Staff Report SBPC
12.10.24
Attachment: Exhibits
Laura Kuhrmeyer, Planner, presented a plat amendment to combine
parcels HE 284 and HE B 285 for public hearing and possible action.
Brad Ross, Owner, briefly addressed the Commission.
Commission Vice-Chair Mooney opened the meeting for public hearing
at 6:53 p.m.
No public comment was offered.
Commission Vice-Chair Mooney closed the meeting for public hearing at
6:53 p.m.
Commissioners asked brief questions.
Megan Recher made a motion to approve the proposed Highland
Estates Plat B Lot 285 Amended based on the findings of fact,
conclusions of law, and conditions of approval. Thomas Cooke
seconded, and all voted in favor, (5-0).
4) Public hearing and recommendation regarding a six unit
commercial Condominium Plat on Lot 10 of the Park City Business
Center Subdivision, located at 4413 N Forestdale Dr, Quinn's
Junction, Summit County, UT; Parcel PCBC-10 (2.10 acres).
Applicant: John Davis, Layton Davis Architects; Owner: Jake Wolf,
PWG Properties. Administrative Process. Project #24-169. Jennifer
Leslie, County Planner. (6:56 P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: PCBC Lot 10 Condo Plat Staff Report
Jennifer Leslie, Planner, presented a six-unit commercial Condo Plat to
change the ownership structure.
John Davis, Applicant, briefly addressed the Commission.
Commission Vice-Chair Mooney opened the meeting for public hearing
at 6:58 p.m.
No members of the public commented.
13
Commission Vice-Chair Mooney closed the meeting for public hearing at
6:58 p.m.
Commissioners did not have any additional questions on the application.
Makena Hawley made a motion to forward a positive
recommendation to the County Manager pursuant to the findings
of fact, conclusions of law, and conditions of approval found in the
staff report. Thomas Cooke seconded, and all voted in favor, (5-0).
5) Continued discussion and recommendation to the County Council
for amendments to chapters 10-2-10: Use table, 10-8: General
regulations and 10-11 Definitions of the Snyderville Basin
Development Code. The purpose of which is to create a definition
and regulations for a "Farm Stand For Plant and Agricultural
Product Sales" in the Rural Residential, Community Commercial,
Service Commercial and Neighborhood Commercial zoning
districts. Applicant: Jason Boal.  Legislative Process. Project #24-
012. Ray Milliner, Principal Planner. (6:59 P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Staff Report December 10, 2024.pdf
Ray Milliner, Principal Planner, presented amendments to the code to
create a permanent use for a farm stand within the County.
Jason Boal, Applicant, addressed members of the Commission.
Commissioners provided comments and asked Planner Milliner
questions, to which he responded.
Thomas Cooke made a motion to to forward a positive
recommendation to the County Council for the proposed land use
definition and change in land used table based on the findings of
fact and conclusions of law found in the staff report with the
change that the hours of operation, Section B, be omitted, and the
use table be amended to make it a conditional use in the CC zone.
Matthew Nagie seconded, and all voted in favor, (5-0).
Commissioner Nagie asked if Commissioner Cooke wanted CC as a
CUP as part of the motion. Commissioner Cooke agreed that would be
part of the changes he presented in his motion.
6) Public hearing and recommendation to the County Council for
amendments to Sections 10-4-9: Parking Requirements, 10-8
General Regulations, 10-2-10 Use Table and 10-11-1 Terms Defined.
The purpose of the amendments is to create regulations for
Electric Vehicle Parking, Bicycle Parking, and Solar Energy
Systems, and to amend the existing gas station regulations.
Legislative Process. Project #24-179. Ray Milliner, Principal Planner.
(7:19 P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
14
Attachment: December 10,2024 Staff Report.pdf
Ray Milliner, Principal Planner, presented amendments to the
Development Code for electric vehicle parking, bicycle parking, and
solar energy.
Emily Quinton, Sustainability Director, and Megan Nick, Sustainability
Analyst, addressed the commission.
Senta Beyer, Active Transportation Planning Manager, introduced
herself to the Commission.
Planner Milliner reviewed the proposed recommendations.
Commissioners asked clarifying questions of Planner Milliner.
Kelbe Goupil with Utah Clean Energy provided additional information for
the discussion.
Additional Commissioner comments and questions were heard. Emily
Quinton and Ray Milliner responded to the concerns.
Commission Vice-Chair Mooney opened the meeting for public hearing
at 8:07 p.m.
No public comment was heard.
Commission Vice-Chair Mooney closed the meeting for public hearing at
8:08 p.m.
Matthew Nagie made a motion to forward a positive
recommendation to the Summit County Council per the findings of
fact, conclusions of law, in the staff report with the following
amendments: under section 10-4-9I-3A4 be changed to say that
electric vehicle charging stations shall be level 2, minimum of 40
amp or level 3 type, and that 10-4-9I-3B1 specify level 2, 40 amp
minimum or level 3 charging capability; 10-4-9I-3B2 be updated so
that each single family attached, single family detached or two
family dwelling unit shall provide one electric vehicle ready
parking space with level 2, 40 amp charging capability; bicycle
parking requirements under 10-4-9J-4B6 specify electric vehicle
ready level 1; Chapter 10-8-8, gasoline service stations with or
without a convenience store, replace requirement D to note
compliance with parking requirements in general, this applies to
MNU-1 throughout equally, and to be added under Chapter 10-11
definitions, strike any mention of level 1 or level 2, but rather have
electric vehicle ready and refer only to its discussion on conduit
and wiring. Thomas Cooke seconded, and all voted in favor, (5-0).
7) Public hearing and possible recommendation to the County
Manager for a Condominium Plat at 6598 Glenwood Drive and 6600
Trout Creek Court: Parcels TCT-A and TCT-B 1.04 acres. The plat
would create a two-unit condominium project on lots A and B of
the Trout Creek Townhomes Plat. Applicant: Sumner Swaner.
15
Administrative Process. Project #24-105. Ray Milliner Principal
Planner.
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Staff Report December 10, 2024.pdf
This item was pulled from the agenda and was not presented to the
Commission.
8) Approval of Minutes: August 13, 2024, September 10, 2024,
October 22, 2024, and November 12, 2024. (8:13 P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Draft SBPC Minutes 08.13.24.pdf
Matthew Nagie made a motion to approve minutes dated August
13, 2024. Makena Hawley seconded, and all voted in favor, (3-0).
Attachment: Draft SBPC Minutes 09.10.24.pdf
Thomas Cooke made a motion to approve minutes dated
September 10, 2024. Matthew Nagie seconded, and all voted in
favor, (3-0).
Attachment: Draft SBPC Minutes 10.22.24.pdf
Makena Hawley made a motion to approve minutes dated October
22, 2024. Matthew Nagie seconded, and all voted in favor, (3-0).
Attachment: Draft SBPC Minutes 11.12.24.pdf
Matthew Nagie made a motion to approve minutes dated November
12, 2024. Makena Hawley seconded, and all voted in favor, (4-0).
Commission Items (8:16 P.M.)
Commissioner Recher asked a procedural question to which Attorney Viti and
Planner Milliner responded.
Commission Vice-Chair Mooney asked a question about Commission
appointments and the assignment of Chair/Co-Chair. Planner Milliner
responded to her question.
Director Items (8:22 P.M.)
Planner Milliner provided an overview of the agendas for upcoming meetings.
Adjournment (8:24 P.M.)
Thomas Cooke made a motion to adjourn. Makena Hawley seconded, and
all voted in favor, (5-0).
16
17