1.
Discussion, Canyons Development Agreement Amendment to modify Section 3.15 regarding
Automobile Access to Red Pine Village Development Area, located in the Red Pine Village,
Tombstone and Red Pine Lake Development Areas of the Canyons Resort. Legislative
review,  Applicant: Dave Smith, authorized representative. Project #23-064.
 
Tiffanie N. Robinson, Senior Planner.
 
 
2.
Discussion, Crossroads at Silver Creek Rezone for 
Parcel SL-I-9-A-AM located at 7131 N.
Silver Creek Drive, from Rural Residential to the Community Commercial Zone. The proposal
includes 72 multi-family residential units, ~32,000 sq. ft. of commercial space, and 24
affordable housing units
. Legislative review. Applicant: Tony Tyler, authorized
representative. Project #23-021 and #25-023.
 
Tiffanie N. Robinson, Senior Planner.
 
 
1.
Public comment for items not on the agenda or pending applications.
2.
Discussion and Possible Action for a proposed Development Agreement Amendment for
Park City Tech Center, proposing a mixed-use project, located in Kimball Junction on Parcels
PCTC-5B-AM, PCTC-402-AM, PCTC-403-AM, PCTC-404-AM, and SCPS-1-X. Applicant: Steve
Borup. Owner: Park City Junction, LLC and High Valley Transit District.
Peter Barnes, Community Development Director
AGENDA 
SNYDERVILLE BASIN PLANNING COMMISSION 
Tuesday, July 
8, 2025
NOTICE is hereby given that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission will
meetelectronically, via Zoom, and at the anchor location of Sheldon Richins Auditorium 1885
W. Ute Blvd., Park City, UT 84098(All times listed are general in nature, and are subject to
change by the Board Chair)   You may attend in person or Join Zoom webinar:
https://summitcountyut.zoom.us/j/98189226475  OR To listen by phone only: Dial 1-669-900-
9128 or 1-253-215-8782, Webinar ID: 981 8922 6475
4:30 P.M. Work Session
 
Red Pine Dev Area access DA Amendment SBPC 7.8.2025 Staff Report 
#23-064
 
Crossroads Rezone MPD Staff Report - SBPC Work Session 7.8.2025 #25-021
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
 
 
DA report final w DA attached.pdf
1
3.
Approval: SBPC Meeting Minutes June 24, 2025
 
Draft SBPC Minutes 6.24.25.pdf
Commission Items
Director Items
Adjourn
To view staff reports available at the end of the Friday before the meeting please visit
www.summitcounty.org.
Individuals needing special accommodations pursuant to the Americans with Disabilities Act regarding this meeting may
contact Vicki Geary, Summit County Community Development Department at (435)336-3123.
2
 Community Development Department 
P.O. Box 128 
60 North Main Street 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
summitcountyutah.gov 
 
  
 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
To:   Snyderville Basin Planning Commission  
From:   Tiffanie N. Robinson, Senior Planner 
Date of Meeting: July 8, 2025 
Type of Item:   Canyons Development Agreement Amendment 
   Work Session     
Process:  Legislative Review 
File:   #23-064 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Proposal 
 
The applicant is proposing to modify  section 3.15 of the Amended and Restated Development 
Agreement for the Canyons Specially Planned Area by adding the following language:  In 
general, automobile access to these areas other than for residents and guests by gate -
controlled non-public road will be prohibited.” 
 
Section 3.15 states: “Automobile Prohibition at Red Pine Village, Tombstone, and Red Pine Lake 
Development Areas.  As required in Section 3.3.5(a) of this Amended Agreement, a remote 
parking and management plan, to include check -in, concierge service and transportation 
between parking and accommodation, must be included in the Transportation Plan. This aspect 
of the Plan shall be adopted and implemented in conjunction with hotel lodging unit 
development in Red Pine Village, Tombstone, and Red Pine Lake Development Areas. In general, 
automobile access to these areas will be prohibited. Access will be provided and maintained for 
service vehicles and emergency services.”   
 
Project Description: 
 
Project Name: Canyons Development Agreement Amendment  to Section 
3.15 - Automobile Access to Red Pine Village , Tombstone 
and Red Pine Lake Development Areas 
 Project #:   23-064 
Applicant(s):   Dave Smith, authorized representative 
Property Owner(s):  TCFC PC Leaseco, LC 
State of Utah School and Institutional Trust Lands 
Administration “SITLA”  
3
2 
 
Location: Red Pine Village, Tombstone and Red Pine Lake 
Development Areas - Canyons Village 
Zone District:   Specially Planned Area (SPA) 
Type of Process:  Legislative 
Final Land Use Authority: Summit County Council 
 
 
Vicinity Map: 
 
Background: 
 
The Canyons Specially Planned Area (SPA) was originally approved in 1998.  This approval 
involved 6,388 acres  and five (5) different property owners.  With that approval there were 
entitlements granted for some of the developments at the Canyons known as Ski 98.  This 
included developments such as the Grand Summit and Sundial Lodge, the Colony and the 
Silverado.   It was anticipated that there would be a comprehensive amendment to this plan 
that would expand the entitlements and property involved. 
4
3 
 
  
In November of 1999, that amendment to the SPA was completed.  After numerous public 
meetings and hearings, the SPA was extended to include approximately 7,768 acres and 37 
different property owners to establish the current Development Agreement (DA).  The guiding 
principles for the DA were the Global Principles: 
 
• Comfortable Carrying Capacity 
• Allowable Density 
• Unit Configurations & Occupancy 
• Resort Support and Mountain Recreation 
• Viewshed 
• Environment 
• Employee Housing 
• Economic Base 
• Transportation 
• Highway 224 & Resort Entry 
• Benchmark Assessments 
• Development Design Character 
• Master Community and Resort Facility, Amenity, Recreation, Cultural Arts, and 
Marketing Plan 
• Community Integration 
• Infrastructure Maintenance and Management 
• Construction Mitigation and Management 
• Development Pattern 
• Development Phasing 
 
The key components to the Development Agreement (DA) were to establish development  
planning areas, create a detailed Land Use & Zoning Chart to allocate maximum heights, 
maximum square footages, uses for each parcel, create Comprehensive Design Guidelines, set 
benchmarks for a Canyons Transportation Master, the Canyons Workforce Housing Plan, Trials 
Master Plan, Natural Resources Management Plan and Open Space and Viewshed Protection 
Plan, to name a few.   
 
There are twelve (12) distinct development areas within the SPA. Each development area has 
specific planning standards based on its location , including allowable uses, density, and 
configuration, as outlined in the Development Agreement and its accompanying Exhibits.  
 
Due to the location and phasing requirements outlined in the Development Agreement, the 
mid-mountain development has not commenced and cannot begin until specific  thresholds are 
met. As part of the long -range planning for the Red Pine Village, Red Pine Lake, and Tombstone 
development areas, the applicant is working to address access and traffic concerns for these 
areas. 
 
5
4 
 
Per their application statement, TCFC has vetted Red Pine traffic -related matters with County 
personnel and the Fire Marshal, including access for service vehicles and emergency services . 
From those discussions, it has become clear that if the "general" limitation under Section 3.15 
were to be applied in such a manner as to strictly prohibit all vehicular access not only for the 
general public but for residents and guests in particular, such a strict prohibition would 
eliminate a crucial means of evacuation that must be available in the event of a wildfire or 
other life-threatening emergency. By letter of March 17, 2023 , the Fire Marshal has concluded 
that (i) the use of a gondola is not a sufficient means of egress for occupants of the 
development and does not meet the requirements of the Park City Fire District or the 
International Fire Code, and likewise, (ii) the use of shuttles is not a sufficient option for 
emergency egress. The Fire Marshal has further concluded that, given the constraints of the 
development area, personal automobiles need to be available, as a combination of shuttles and 
lifts or a gondola would not provide a successful means of emergency evacuation required for 
the numbers and locations of people on  the mountain. A copy of (i) the proposed 11-
word redline amendment, (ii) a letter stating that TCFC would be willing to provide, agreeing to 
the imposition of a requirement that the roadway be non-public, gate-controlled access, and 
(iii) the Life Safety letter from the Park City District Fire Marshall EXHIBIT A. 
 
TCFC believes this critical life -safety issue can be adequately addressed and reconciled with the 
general traffic limitation by adding a clarifying phrase in Section 3.15. This phrase would restrict 
vehicular traffic to residents and guests only via a gate -controlled non -public access road. 
Emergency and resort service vehicles would, of course, still be allowed. This approach would 
achieve the dual County goals of (i) reducing traffic and (ii) ensuring life safety by providing the 
only practical means of emergency evacuation. 
 
Staff has included additional exhibits from the DA that address  the site -specific design 
guidelines for th ese on-mountain development areas , specifically regarding access EXHIBIT B.  
Additionally, in 2023, the County Engineer, Steve Dennis, and the Transportation Deputy 
Director, Brandon Brady, provided input on the modification,  and the 2023 traffic study 
supplied by Hales Engineering , EXHIBIT C . Given the changes within the Engineering and 
Transportation departments and the time elapsed since their initial comments, an updated 
review may be warranted before making a final decision.   
 
In September 2023, the SBPC held a work session and requested that the applicant collaborate 
with staff to provide additional information regarding the potential location of the road and its 
possible visual and environmental impacts.   
 
Since that time, the applicant has provided supplemental information, specifically a visual 
analysis and details on construction measures for grading, retaining walls, and bridges . This 
information is provided by the links below and attached EXHIBIT D. 
 
Link to drive-by video from SR 224: 
https://www.dropbox.com/t/t7U093Eq9I2zxXrT 
  
6
5 
 
Link to flyover animation (potential Red Pine Road alignment shown in grey to best represent 
asphalt): 
https://drive.usercontent.google.com/download?id=1GRYgf8LZ8gUoHPZVnAx41fJST60cJBxe&e
xport=download&confirm=t&uuid=a44b4dfe-1a60-4704-a186-afd2da2d022c 
 
EXHIBIT D includes a 3-page illustration of the potential road alignment, including aerial 
overlays.  In addition to an overall contextual depiction, these illustrations include photos taken 
of existing Colony roadway walls and features, which show exactly where they are located 
within the Colony, and then pinpoint where analogous features would be found on the 
potential roadway.    
 
Recommendation 
 
Staff recommends that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission conduct a work session and 
discuss the proposed amendment to modify Section 3.15 of the Canyons Development 
Agreement regarding Automobile Prohibition for Red Pine Village, Red Pine Lake , and 
Tombstone Development Areas.   
 
Public Notice, Meetings and Comments 
  
This item has been noticed as a work session only.  After receiving input and direction from the 
SBPC, staff will schedule  the item for a public hearing and possible recommendation at a later 
date. 
 
Attachment(s): 
 
EXHIBIT A -  Narrative, Proposed Text, Fire Marshal letter, and Red Pine Traffic Study 
EXHIBIT B – Supplemental exhibits from the Canyons Development Agreement  
EXHIBIT C – Service Provider Comments from Transportation and Engineering 
EXHIBIT D – High Mountain Road Visual Impact Analysis (some links embedded) 
 
 
7
OVERVIEW OF APPLICATION FOR DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT AMENDMENT 
As part of TCFC's long-range planning for its Red Pine project (entitled under the Canyons 
SPA DA), TCFC is undertaking to proactively address traffic-related items associated with that 
future project. This Application relates to Section 3.15 of the DA, which reads: 
As required in Section 3.3.S{a) of this Amended Agreement, a remote parking and 
management plan, to include check-in, concierge service and transportation 
between parking and accommodation, must be included in the Transportation 
Plan. This aspect of the Plan shall be adopted and implemented in conjunction 
with hotel/lodging unit development in Red Pine Village, Tombstone, and Red Pine 
Lake Development Areas. In general, automobile access to these areas, will be 
prohibited. Access will be provided and maintained for service vehicles 
and emergency services. (underscore added) 
Of particular note, the highlighted vehicular limitation is "In general," not absolute, and access 
related to emergency services must be provided. 
TCFC has vetted Red Pine traffic-related matters with County personnel and the Fire 
Marshal, including access for service vehicles and emergency services. From those discussions, 
it has become clear that if the "general" limitation under Section 3.15 were to be applied in such 
a manner as to strictly prohibit all vehicular access not only for the general public but for residents 
and guests in particular, such a strict prohibition would eliminate a crucial means of evacuation 
that must be available in the event of a wildfire or other life-threatening emergency. By letter of 
March 17, 2023 (copy attached), the Fire Marshal has concluded that (i) the use of a gondola is 
not a sufficient means of egress for occupants of the development and does not meet the 
requirements of the Park City Fire District or the International Fire Code, and likewise, (ii) the use 
of shuttles is not a sufficient option for emergency egress. The Fire Marshall has further 
concluded that given the constraints of the development area, personal automobiles need to be 
available, as a combination of shuttles and lifts or a gondola would not provide a successful 
means of emergency evacuation required for the numbers and locations of people on-mountain. 
TCFC believes this major life-safety issue can be properly addressed and reconciled in 
harmony with the general traffic limitation through the insertion of a clarifying phrase in Section 
3.15 that would allow vehicular traffic only for residents and guests via a gate-controlled non­
public access road. Access for emergency and resort service vehicles would, of course, still be 
allowed. This approach would serve the dual County goals of (i) mitigating traffic and (ii) meeting 
life-safety demands by providing the only practical means of emergency evacuation. 
Attached is a March 30, 2023 Traffic Study Update from Hales Engineering that is specific 
to Red Pine. This focused Study Update concludes that the only potential additional traffic 
mitigation measure associated with future Red Pine development would be at the High Mountain 
Road / Escala Court intersection. This Study Update also notes that the 2018 Transportation 
Master Plan Study, which was utilized in connection with the 2018 SPA amendment, took into 
account projected traffic data associated with the Red Pine development (including vehicular 
traffic for residents and guests) and substantiated that existing traffic infrastructure and 
improvements have already been sized to accommodate Red Pine-related traffic impacts. 
EXHIBIT A1
8
EXHIBIT A2
9
EXHIBIT A3
10
EXHIBIT A4
11
EXHIBIT A5
12
EXHIBIT A6
13
EXHIBIT A7
14
EXHIBIT A8
15
EXHIBIT A9
16
EXHIBIT A10
17
EXHIBIT A11
18
EXHIBIT A12
19
EXHIBIT A13
20
/0 /1 /2 /1 /3 /4 /5 /i255 /7 /7 /8 /3 /9 /i255 /10 /11 /12/13/13 /14 /15 /16 /i255 /17 /18 /19 /20 /21
/21 /20 /20 /22 /23 /8 /1 /1 /16 /18 /19 /20 /21 /24 /14 /13 /13 /14 /15 /16 /24 /25 /13/26/1/27 /16 /28 /1/29/9/30 /24 /31 /32 /31 /32 /33 /32 /9 /31 /5 /34 /7 /7 /7 /24 /33 /31 /32 /2 /7 /0 /0 /3 /5 /3 /4 /3 /2 /24 /3 /31 /32 /31 /7 /33 /3 /0 /18 /5 /33 /33 /4 /2 /24/9 /0 /32 /0 /33 /2 /32 /35 /5 /4 /4 /24 /30 /2 /33 /9 /7 /32 /3 /33 /36 /5 /34 /7 /7 /4 /24 /0 /31 /0 /9 /30 /2 /7 /31 /21 /5 /33 /32 /24 /30 /2 /7 /2 /30 /32 /20 /5 /30/19/7 /1 /7
/37 /38/39/40/41 /38 /42 /i255 /44 /45 /46 /44 /47 /i255/39/i255/48 /49 /50 /48 /51 /52 /53 /49 /54 /55 /i255 /51 /51 /51 /50 /53 /53 /52 /51 /44 /54/56/i255 /46/45 /51 /46 /57 /i255 /39
/58 /59 /59 /60 /61/40/62/38 /63 /38 /i255 /64 /65 /66 /45 /i255 /55 /66 /67 /67 /45 /i255 /68 /69 /64 /69 /i255 /55 /38 /70 /71 /45 /i255 /55 /58 /67 /45 /i255 /58 /72 /73 /37/66/74/38 /75 /76 /77 /38 /63 /i255 /78 /i255 /37 /59 /79 /40 /41 /75 /80 /81 /82 /77
/83 /49 /49 /i255 /39
EXHIBIT B1
21
construed to permit or authorize any such holder to devote the Property, or any portion 
thereof, to any uses, or to construct any improvements thereon, other than those uses and 
improvements provided for or authorized by this Amended Agreement, as would be the case 
in any assignment, and thus shall be subject to all of the terms and conditions of this 
Amended Agreement, to include the obligations related to the completion of amenities and 
improvements. 
Section 3 .12 Transfers of Development Rights (TDR). A number of additional units have 
been established within the Canyons SP A for the purposes of allowing the transfer of density, 
both within and from outside the boundary of the Canyons SP A, to preserve certain open 
space and important viewsheds. Exhibit K which incorporates the TDR Agreement (Exhibit 
K. l) and the TDR Program (Exhibit K.2) establishes all of the Transfer of Density
allowances under this Amended Agreement and of the obligations and commitments related to
the transfer of density, which obligations and commitment are expressly assumed and agreed
to by the County and Developers. Those owners of parcels of real property located outside
the SP A boundary that have agreed to restrict the development of such property in exchange
for a transfer of density to within the SP A boundary hereby agree to record a covenant
against their property acknowledging the nature and extent of such restrictions.
Section 3.13 Other Ski Resorts. With regard to the Mines Ventures and Silver King Mines 
development areas, any connection to other ski resorts must be approved by both Summit 
County, the Master Developer and the Developer of The Colony. 
Section 3.14 Fractional Interest and Timeshare Unit Conversion Prohibition to Primary 
Residential Units. The parties understand and agree that all timeshare and fractional interest 
units shall be restricted in such a way as to prohibit conversion of such to use as primary 
residential dwelling units. Densities received by Developers for such units are granted by 
the County under the express understanding that these timeshare and fractional interest units 
are for resort accommodation only. 
Section 3.15 Automobile Prohibition at Red Pine Village. Tombstone. and Red Pine Lake 
Development Areas. As required in Section 3.3.5(a) of this Amended Agreement, a remote 
parking and management plan, to include check-in, concierge service and transportation 
between parking and accommodation, must be included in the Transportation Plan. This 
aspect of the Plan shall be adopted and implemented in conjunction with\hotel/lodging unit 
development in Red Pine Village, Tombstone, and Red Pine Lake Development Areas. In 
general, automobile access to these areas will be prohibited. Access will be provided and 
maintained for service vehicles and emergency services. 
ARTICLE 4 
FURTHER OBLIGATIONS OF THE COUNTY 
Section 4.1 Land-Secured Financing Districts and Related Financing Techniques. At the 
request of the Master Developer or the RVMA, the County, in its sole and absolute 
discretion, may consider the use of land-secured financing for financing the public 
56 00553911 BK01297 PG00�60 
EXHIBIT B2
22
EXHIBIT B3
23
EXHIBIT B4
24
EXHIBIT B5
25
EXHIBIT B6
26
EXHIBIT B7
27
EXHIBIT B8
28
EXHIBIT B9
29
EXHIBIT B10
30
EXHIBIT B11
31
From: Steven Dennis
To: Tiffanie Robinson
Subject: RE: Canyon DA Amendment - Red Pine Access
Date: Tuesday, August 22, 2023 8:17:16 AM
Hi Tiffanie,
In general, I agree that personal vehicles need to be allowed up to the Red Pine Development. That
being said, I’m concerned that the proposed language gives blanket approval for most cars. I think
there needs to be a collaborative discussion with TCFC, PCFD, and us to establish a ratio or number
that works for all. I’m also curious about the “scaled traffic measures” mentioned in the Hales
report. What are they actually recommending?
Just my thoughts, let me know if you have any questions.
Best wishes,
Steve
Steve Dennis, PE, PMP
Summit County Engineering
(435) 336-3293
EXHIBIT C1
32
From: Brandon C. Brady
To: Tiffanie Robinson
Subject: RE: Canyon DA Amendment - Red Pine Access
Date: Wednesday, August 30, 2023 9:34:49 AM
Attachments: image001.png
Hi Tiff,
The only question that I have is that the traffic study shows that there is bad queuing on High
Mountain Rd and Escala Ct and the report says with “scaled traffic mitigation measures” the LOS
goes from an F to A.
  I have no idea what “scaled traffic mitigation measures" are so they will need to
define that, so we know what steps they need to take to improve the LOS.  Let me know if you have
any questions or need anything else.
Thanks,
Brandon Brady, P.E.
Transportation Planning Deputy Director
435.262.7503 (cell)
EXHIBIT C2
33
EXHIBIT D1
34
NORTH
HIGH MOUNTAIN ROAD EXTENSION WALLS EXHIBIT
0 150 300 600 900
HORIZONTAL SCALE:1"=300'
WHITE PINE CANYON ROAD
HIGH MOUNTAIN ROAD
UPHILL WALL #1
DOWNHILL WALL #6
IRON MOUNTAIN LIFT
TIERED SOIL NAIL WALL
ROADWAY SWITCH BACK MULTIPLE WALL #5
MULTI WALL #4
MULTI-WALL #4
UPHILL SOIL NAIL
DOWNHILL MSE
UPHILL WALL #2
ROADWAY SWITCH BACK (TYP)
UPHILL WALL #1
UPHILL WALL #3
DOWNHILL WALL #6 MULTI-WALL #4 MULTI-WALL #5
SOIL NAIL WALLUPHILL WALL #1 UPHILL WALL #2
UPHILL WALL #3
ROADWAY SWITCHBACK
UPHILL WALL #2
UPHILL WALL #3
ROADWAY SWITCHBACK
DOWNHILL WALL #6
DOWNHILL WALL #6MULTI-WALL #4
MULTI-WALL #4
DOWNHILL WALL #6
UPHILL WALL #1
path: C:\Users\Kristian\MDS Dropbox\Projects\02. Canyons High Mountain Road\01. Exhibits\
file name: HMR Extension Walls Exhibit.dwg   |   plot date:  May 07,  2025   |   plotted by: Kristian
ROADWAY SWITCHBACK
EXHIBIT D2
35
DOWNHILL WALL #6 MULTI-WALL #4 MULTI-WALL #5
SOIL NAIL WALLUPHILL WALL #1 UPHILL WALL #2
UPHILL WALL #3
ROADWAY SWITCHBACK
EXHIBIT D3
36
 Community Development Department 
P.O. Box 128 
60 North Main Street 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
summitcountyutah.gov 
1 
STAFF REPORT 
To: 
From: 
Date of Meeting: 
Type of Item: 
Process: 
File(s): 
Snyderville Basin Planning Co mmission 
Tiffanie N. Robinson, Senior Planner 
July 8, 2025 
Work Session - Rezone to Community Commercial (CC) 
Master Planned Development (MPD) 
Conditional Use Permit (CUP)  
Administrative and Legislative 
#23-021 and #25-023
Proposal 
The applicant proposes rezoning parcel SL-I-9-A-AM from Rural Residential to 
Community Commercial
. The proposal includes 72 multi-family residential units, 24 affordable 
housing 
units, ~32,000 sq. ft. commercial use, and a 4,000 square foot non-p rofit/institutional 
use EXHIBIT A. 
Project Description:
Project Name: 
Applicant(s):  
Property Owner(s):   
Location: 
Existing Zone District:   
Proposed Zone 
District: 
Parcel Number and 
Size:
 Type of Process:  
Crossroads at Silver Creek Rezone 
Tony Tyler 
CDP Silver Creek, LLC 
N. Silver Creek Road, Silv
 er Creek Estates, Summit County, UT
Rural Residential (RR)
Communit
y Commercial (CC)
SL-I-9-A-AM (14.07 acres)
Legislative (Rezone and Development Agreement)
Administrative
 (Conditional Use Permit)
Final Land Use Authority: Summit County Council (Rezone and Development Agreeme nt)
Snyderville Basin Planning Commission (Conditional Use Permit)
37
2 
Vicinity Map 
Background 
The
 Silver Creek Estates Unit I Block 9 Subdivision plat was initially recorded on March 3, 1965. 
Block 9 was labeled as commercial on the original plat; however, a subdivision plat cannot dictate 
zoning. Several changes and divisions of the lot had occurred over the years.   
On Jan
uary 17, 2023, the applicant held a pre -application conference with planning staff to 
discuss rezoning the property to NMU.  The applicant presented a preliminary concept to the 
Snyderville Basin Planning Commission in two work sessions on March 28, 2023,  and a revised 
proposal on May 23, 2023.  After multiple discussions with the Commission, the applicant decided 
to pause the NMU rezone. 
On Fe
bruary 7, 2025, an amended plat for Silver Creek Estates Unit I, Block 1, Block 4, and part 
of Block 9 was recorded to clarify several divisions and changes that occurred over the years  
within Block 1, Block 4, and Block 9. The amendment created the current Parcel A, a 14.07 -acre 
lot, and five (5) residential lots, as shown in EXHIBIT B. 
On 
February 11, 2025, the applicant submitted a revised application t o rezone the property to 
Community Commercial. The rezone requires the simultaneous processing of Master Planned 
38
3 
Development (MPD),  C onditional U se P ermit ( CUP), a nd De velopment Agreement (DA) 
applications. A Conditional Use Permit application was received on February 13, 2025. 
Due to the construction of the  new roundabout on Lower Silver Creek  Drive  and 
property acquired by Summit County from the applicant, Summit County has applied to amend 
SL-I-9-A-AM to vacate a portion of Earl Street, as currently platted, and realign it to 
be consistent with the new roundabout construction.  The Crossroads at Silver 
Creek application being discussed anticipat es the completion of the amendment.    
Analysis 
The purpose of this work session is for the applicant to introduce the project and receive 
initial feedback from the Planning Commission. Service Providers have not reviewed the 
proposal at this point.  Based on the outcome  of this discussion, the  applicant a nd staff have 
agreed that it makes sense to see if any substantial changes will be necessary before sending it 
out for review. Staff has outlined key discussion items below that will guide future analysis and 
meetings. 
Rezone: 
The subject property is currently zoned Rural Residential (RR ). The applicant is proposing 
to rezone the  property to Community Commercial. The density in the CC Zone is determined by 
the applicant’s ability to meet the minimum requirements of the  zone, including height, 
setbacks, open space, etc. 
10-2-7: Community Commercial (CC) Zone Setback and Bulk Regulations:
1.
The minimum setback from Highways 224, 40, 248, and Interstate 80 rights of way shall be one
hundred feet (100').
2. The minimum setback from any frontage road right-of-way shall be eighty feet (80').
3. The minimum setback from any wetland shall be forty feet (40').
4. The minimum setback from the centerline of East Canyon Creek shall be one hundred fifty feet
(150').
5. The minimum setback from a naturally occurring year -round stream (other than East Canyon
Creek) shall be one hundred feet (100')
from the centerline of the stream.
6. The minimum setback from a lake, pond, or reservoir shall be one hundred feet (100') from the
high-water mark.
7. With the above exceptions, the minimum front yard setback shall be thirty feet (30') unless
otherwise indicated on the recorded plat or an approved site plan. In cases where the property
lines extend to the center of the road, the minimum setback from the centerline of the road shall
be fifty-five feet (55'). The front setback in Summit Park shall be fifteen feet (15') from the front
property line.
8. With the above exceptions, the minimum side yard shall be twelve feet (12'), unless otherwise
indicated on the recorded plat or an approved site plan.
39
4 
9. With the above exceptions, the minimum rear yard shall be twelve feet (12'), unless otherwise
indicated on the recorded plat or an approved site plan.
10. Maximum building or structure height shall be thirty-two feet (32') unless otherwise stated in
section10-4-3 of this title. Height shall be measured according to section 10-4-22 of this title.
Density: 
The maximum density in the Community Commercial zone shall be determined by the ability of 
the proposed development to m eet all r equired development and performance s tandards and 
criteria outlined in this t itle. The applicant has pr ovided a site pl an that demonstrates the 
proposed density, meeting setbacks, and shows that the density can be accommodated on the 
14-acre site, albeit with fewer affordable units.  The a pplicant has proposed flexibility with the 
required setbacks to allow for a better overall design and includes additional affordable housing 
units, as shown in EXHIBIT C.
Setbacks: 
The applicant proposes building Nanga Bear Lane,  which branches off of the realigned Earl 
Street, as a private road. The  current Nanga Bear Lane,  which serves t he residential lots  
w, is a public road. Additionally, they propose not to have any interior lot lines throughout 
the entire project. The County Engineer has not officially commented but has expressed 
concerns about the road being partly private and partly public, with no setbacks required. 
Moreover, all parts of the  structure, including patio areas, must be located outside the ROW. 
SETBACK, FRONT: A front setback shall be required for each side of a lot bordering a road or other 
right-of-way. 
Affordable Housing: 
The Snyderville  Basin Development Code,  Chapter 5, determines the afforda ble housing 
requirement. 
Based on the mixed-u se project, calculations are made  for both the commercial and residential 
components and then combined. A one-time reduction of 5,000 square feet of commercial space 
is permitted. Staff and the applicant have slightly different figures regarding this reduction. Sta ff 
reduced 5,000  square  feet based on the percentage  of ea ch commercial use,  while  the 
applicant deducted the  entire  5,000 square feet  from the Restaurant/Bar use,  which 
generates the most employees. If  final approval a llows for a 25% reduction of the  total 
AUEs required,  based on constructing the affordable housing component  first, it seems tha t 
the 24 units  (22.4 AUEs) would meet  or even surpass the requirements  of Chapter 5. If not 
permitted, further discussion about the exemption of the 5,000 square feet may be necessary 
to determine if the proposal satisfies the required AUE's.
40
5 
Employee Generation
Total Commerical 32,000 % of total % of 5,000 Exempt Commerical sq. footage
Commerical/Retail 20,000 0.625 3,125.00 16,875.00 55.6875 Employees Generated (3.3 FTE's)
Restaurant/bar 6,000 0.1875 937.50 5,062.50 32.90625 Employees Generated (6.5 FTE's)
Medium intesity office 6,000 0.1875 937.50 5,062.50 18.73125 Employees Generated (3.7 FTE's)
107.325 TOTAL Employees
Commercial Mitigatgion
107.325 employees multiplied by 0.20 (mitigation rate) 21.465 Employees
21.465 divided by 1.5 (workers per household) 14.31 Employees
14.31 divided by 1.2 (jobs per worker) 11.925 AUE's
Residential Mitigation
Number of allowed market units in development 72
Obligation rate = 72 x 20% 14.4
AUEs required from market rate 14.4 AUE's
TOTAL AUE's for comm/res develo 26.325
6.58125 25% potential reduction
19.74375
COMMERICIAL AFFORDABLE HOUSING OBLIGATION
RESIDENTIAL AFFORDABLE HOUSING OBLIGATION
# of AUEs / Unit Studio 1 Bed 2 Bed 3 Bed 4 Bed TOTAL 
times this row by
 # of units to get WUEs 0.5 0.8 1 1.25 1.43
Number of Actual
Units 0 8 16 0 0 24 Units
Number of AUEs 0 6.4 16 0 0 22.4 AUEs Proposed
19.74 AUEs Required
2.66
Parking 8 32
Guest Parking 2 4
TOTAL Parking 10 36 46 Parking space required
Affordable Housing AUE and Parking Breakdown
Illustration 1 - Staff's AUE calculations
Illustration 2 - AUE and Parking Breakdown
41
6 
General Plan: 
The proposed project is situated in the  Silver Creek Neighborhood,  as outlined in the General 
Plan.  
At the
 beginning of Chapter 2 it states, the goal of this section of the General Plan is as follows: 
GOAL
: Promote sustainable Land Use Planning Principles that preserve Critical Lands, maintain 
neighborhood character, protect the economic base, prevent sprawl, and provide efficient 
delivery of services. 
Th
e objectives and policies that follow this goal serve as guidelines and strategic options to meet 
the stated goal.  There are four policies listed under Objective A. Staff has provided some initial 
analysis, but further examination is needed to confirm that each policy will be satisfied as the 
project progresses.  Page numbers refer to the PDF version of the General Plan.   
OBJE
CTIVE A: Encourage the creation of highly livable neighborhoods and mixed -use areas that 
are connected by open spaces and multi-modal transportation systems.  
Pol
icy 2.1:  Identify, plan, and create neighborhood master planned specific areas where 
development/redevelopment should occur. These designated areas should be rezoned 
accordingly. 
42
7 
The General Plan has identified the project area as a future mixed-u se development on page 78. 
The applicant proposes to rezone the parcel to Community Commercial, with residential and 
commercial components. 
Policy 2.2: Identify specific areas where development should not occur a nd zone it accordingly. 
The project area does not contain any areas identified as being unfit for development.   
Policy 2.3: Do not approve any new entitlements beyond those permitted by the 
Development Code until such time that existing entitlements are significantly exhausted, 
unless the County legislative body first determines that:  
a. a compelling countervailing public interest, specifically identified in the General Plan
exists and cannot be  reasonably sati sfied with out ex panding one or mo re 
entitlements(s);
Several countervailing public interests are  explicitly identified in the  General Plan,  which 
can be  reasonably satisfied through the  approval of the proposed Crossroads at Silver  
Creek project.  The interests listed below are difficult,  if not impossible, to satisfy without 
expanding entitlement.
Page Number Public Interest Relation to Proposed Project 
3 Provision and inclusion of 
affordable housing 
If the project is approved with 
a 25% reduction in affordable 
housing by constructing the 
affordable housing first, the 
project would exceed  this 
requirement.  
6 These mixed -use areas should 
benefit, not detract from, the 
general health, safety and 
welfare of the entire 
community. A variety of smart 
growth strategies to locate 
development in the most 
suitable locations should be 
considered. These strategies 
may include the use of density 
transfers, land acquisitions, 
conservation easements, and 
clustered development 
principles. 
The applicant is using the 
development code processes 
available to create a 
community that typifies 
clustered development 
principles and strategically 
scaffolds growth from the 
highest intensity at the best 
access point and lowest 
intensity near existing single- 
family residential.   
7 OBJECTIVE B: Incentivize 
compact, dense, and nodal 
development, defined by 
abundant and contiguous open 
spaces, as well as a predictable 
See above. 
43
8 
process to achieve this goal 
through clear regulations in the 
Snyderville Basin Development 
Code. 
9 OBJECTIVE E: Prevent the 
creation of new suburban low -
density, dispersed (i.e. non-
clustered) residential 
development. 
Policy 2.28: New residential 
developments should be 
compact, connected, and 
incorporated whenever 
possible into mixed use/transit 
friendly areas. 
The proposed development is 
clustered and connected via a 
network of trails.  
Additionally, access to public 
transit is within ½  
mile, a 
typical walkshed, of all 
proposed residential uses.   
17 Policy 4.1: Community parks, 
trails, and recreation facilities 
should be of sufficient size and 
located throughout the Basin 
in a manner that ties the 
neighborhoods together and 
promotes the overall sense of 
community and recreation 
family. 
The applicant proposes a 
neighborhood park and trail 
system for pedestrian use. 
53 Reduce single-occupant 
vehicle trips 
Including a transit stop near 
the commercial area and 
affordable housing units , 
while creating a walkable 
environment with connected 
trails and sidewalks , helps 
reduce single -occupant 
vehicle trips and overall 
vehicle miles traveled. 
64 Ensure priority is given  to the 
needs of pedestrians rather 
than the movement of vehicles 
The applicant has proposed 
that a large  portion of the 
walking trials be located 
along the rear of the 
residential homes to help 
limit pedestrian and 
vehicular conflicts.  
65 The neighborhood needs to be 
easily accessible, both to get to 
and to navigate through. 
The proposed development 
aims to reduce auto-conflicts 
through a right -in, right -out 
44
9 
access design. Linked trails 
and sidewalks enhance 
pedestrian connectivity. 
b. such new entitlement(s) do not simply result in an incidental benefit to the public interest, 
but rather such entitlement(s ) a re in tended primarily to promote such  compel ling 
countervailing public interest; and
The applicant has indicated that public interests are the primary motivating factors in the 
creation of the  proposed plan. The amount of affordable  housing can meet the  
requirements of the Community Commercial zone. The applicant proposes to donate land 
to address a communit y need for daycare. The  applicant has contributed to the goal of  
reducing Vehicle Miles traveled by including a transit stop and creating a walkable  
environment with necessary services.
c. any new entitlement(s) are consistent with the Neighborhood Planning Area Plans and the 
Snyderville Basin Gener al Pla n’s Future La nd Use Maps, as amen ded.”
The relevant map is on page 78 and is included above.
Policy 2.4: Work with lo cal, state, and federal agencies to c reate a mu lti-modal transportation 
network to s upport desired de velopme nt patterns. The S nyderville Basin will be de fined by i ts 
abundant open spaces, world -class resort ame nities, a nd  liv able neighborhoods and not an 
expansive highway system. 
Staff and the appl icant will continue t o c ollaborate w ith Summit C ounty Engineering,  Public 
Works, and the Transportation Division to establish safe routes, including those for public transit, 
from the highway and within the proposed community.  
Recommendation 
The applicant has requested a work session to introduce the proje ct and receive  direction 
and initial input from the Planning Commission before proceeding with the  final designs. No 
formal action is requested at this meeting.  
Public Notice, Meetings, and Comments 
This item was publicly noticed as a Work Session with the Snyderville Basin Planning 
Commission.
 Future Public Hearings will held with the Planning Commission and the Summit 
County Council. 
Attachments 
EXHIBIT A – Applicant narrative and proposed site plan 
EXHIBIT B – Current Silver Creek Estates Unit I Block 9 Amended Plat 
EXHIBIT C – Base density site plan 
45
February 7, 2
025 
Summit County Planning Department 
C/O Tiffanie Robinson 
60 N. Main Street 
Coalville, UT 84017 
trobinson@summitcountyutah.gov  
RE: File # 23-021, Crossr
oads at Silver Creek Master Planned Development Application – Rezone / CUP 
VIA EMAIL 
Hi Tiffanie,  
Please allow the below information to update the existing Master Planned Development – Rezone 
(“MPD-Rezone”) application, # 23-021, previously submitted on February 27, 2023 and updated 
periodically through the process.  The attached package and narratives below update the following 
sections of the application: 
· Project Information
· Submittal Requirements: Site Design Narrative
· Submittal Requirements: Written description of the proposed rezone
· Submittal Requirements: Conditional Use Permit application
Project Information 
Pursuant to 
the Silver Creek Estate Unit “I” Amended Plat, the Total Project Area is modified to be 
“Parcel A” and contains 14.07 acres, or approximately 612,889 SF.  Applicant acknowledges that an 
additional Subdivision Plat is in process collaboratively with Summit County for the transfer of land area 
currently used for the relocation of Earl Street and the roundabout improvements on Silver Creek Road 
at Division Street. 
The Building Footprint Square Footage is modified to 148,280 SF (32,000 SF commercial, 19,160 SF 
affordable residential, 93,120 SF residential and 4,000 SF non-profit/commercial use), representing a lot 
coverage ratio of 0.24. 
Total Building Gross Square Footage is modified to 228,547 SF (32,000 SF commercial, 21,187 SF 
affordable residential, 171,360 SF residential and 4,000 SF non-profit/commercial use), representing a 
floor area ratio of 0.37. 
The Number of Units is modified to 96 total (24 affordable residential and 72 residential). 
EXHIBIT A1
46
Submittal Requirements: Site Design Narrative 
 
1. Neighborhood Connectivity: How does the proposed development interconnect with the 
surrounding properties, neighborhood, and area? Including, but not limited to: 
· Where will vehicles enter and exit the site? 
· Where will new streets be developed? 
· How will pedestrian and bicycle routes (including commuter pathways, trails, and 
sidewalks) be provided through the project area? 
 
Response:  
 
Four access locations are planned for vehicles to enter and exit the site.  Primary vehicular 
access in/out of the development area is provided from the existing roundabout at Silver Creek 
Road and Division Street.  Three additional, secondary access roads are anticipated at Earl Street 
(North access), Earl Street (South access) and Silver Creek Road (East access, right-in/right-out 
only).  All new roads are designed to rural local standards, per Summit County code 10-4-10. 
The two new roads are planned in the project area are: 1) to connect from the existing elbow at 
Earl Street North, extending to the Earl Street South connection at the adjacent residential 
subdivision, and 2) to provide internal circulation and an alternate access to Silver Creek Road.  
Stop signs are anticipated at the T-intersection with Earl Street (both North and South 
connections), creating an efficient entry/exit to the Roundabout at Silver Creek Road and direct 
connection to the adjacent residential subdivision. 
Four pedestrian/trail connections are planned for the development area, located at the North, 
East and South boundaries of the property.  A potential fifth connection to the adjacent 
residential subdivision at the Western boundary is available behind building P (subject to 
coordination/cooperation with the adjacent homeowner’s association, who owns the parcel).  
The internal trail has numerous access points and is physically separated from the roads, with 
dedicated crossing locations and connections to the larger trail system to the North along Silver 
Creek Road.  Crosswalks along Silver Creek Road have been constructed as part of the 
roundabout improvements. 
 
2. Availability of Neighborhood Facilities and Services: Is the location of the proposed development 
within reasonable proximity (including walking and biking) to community facilities such as 
schools, retail centers, parks, etc.? 
 
Response: 
 
The Snyderville Basin General Plan, dated June 17, 2015 (the “General Plan”) defines the 
development area as a “Mixed Use Area” for “commercial uses and lots intended to serve the 
needs of the residents of Silver Creek and the surrounding area” (pg. 43 and following Future 
Land Use Map).  Based on this designation and the existing uses to the West and North (single-
EXHIBIT A2
47
family residential) and to the East (service station and commercial uses), the project has been 
designed to cluster small-scale commercial uses around the newly constructed roundabout, 
while stepping down the intensity of uses to multi-family residential adjacent to the single 
family homes.  The small scale of the commercial buildings is best suited to community 
commercial uses and have been planned for approximately 20,000 SF of commercial/retail, 
6,000 SF of restaurant/bar and 6,000 SF of medium intensity office uses (subject to change, 
based on availability of the use’s FTE’s for the Affordable Unit Equivalent requirement in Summit 
County code 10-5-6).  Each commercial building can be demised to a minimum of 1,000 SF, 
allowing for locally sponsored incubation space for new and growing businesses.  Although not 
required in the Community Commercial zone, the building sizes are limited to a maximum of 
10,000 SF (by combining buildings A & B or E & F), effectively mitigating the option for any “big 
box” stores in favor of neighborhood-oriented commercial uses. 
 
The development location is adjacent to a major freeway intersection at I-80 and US-40, which 
provides excellent vehicular access to the commercial uses without requiring vehicles to pass 
through any residential zones.  Neighborhood access is also excellent, providing multiple 
pedestrian/bicycle paths, in addition to a centralized parking area designed to serve all uses 
without the need to drive between commercial buildings. 
 
Crossroads at Silver Creek is planned to have a neighborhood park, isolated from all adjacent 
roads and accessible by pedestrian and trail use.  The park is planned to be available to the 
residential public, both inside the development and from the adjacent subdivisions.  The current 
design includes a Scandinavian-style jumping pillow, a fixed playground and a combination 
basketball/pickleball court with pavilion.  Unprogrammed lawn space (the only irrigated turf 
area in the project) surrounds the park uses and provides additional space for recreational 
outdoor uses. 
 
3. Meeting Housing Needs: How does the proposed development advance the community need for 
a mix of housing types and affordability? 
 
Response: 
 
The development provides 24 deed-restricted housing units.  Of these, 8 units are 1-bedroom 
configurations designed for very low-income households, whose income is at or below 50% of 
the median family income for Summit County.  The remaining 16 units are 2-bedroom floor 
plans designed for low-income households, whose income is at or below 80% of the median 
family income for Summit County.   
 
In addition to the deed-restricted housing units, the development also provides 72 townhome-
style residential units, ranging in size from 1,740 SF to 2,075 SF.  Similar inventory in Summit 
County is scarce outside of the resort areas (only six comparable units available under $1.5M as 
of this date), and as a result, these market-rate units will provide a material benefit to Summit 
County families looking for a reasonable home without the associated resort area price tag. 
   
EXHIBIT A3
48
4. Character: What are the design character objectives for the built environment, including 
buildings and the public spaces that connect them? How do these design objectives address the 
local context, climate, and/or community needs? 
 
Response: 
 
The primary objective of the development is to bridge the scale of the neighborhood within the 
property boundaries.  Immediately to the East, a large-scale gas station and UDOT truck parking 
lot comprise the outer boundary of a light-industrial and commercial subdivision (incidentally, 
also part of Silver Creek Estates Unit “I”).  To the West and North are single-family homes 
situated on lots almost uniformly just under an acre.  The Southern property boundary holds a 
significant UDOT storm drainage retention basin and the flyover at the freeway interchange at I-
80/US -40.   
 
While the original 1965 plat identifies the uses as “Service Stores & Shopping Center,” the later 
area zoning and General Plan modifies the uses to residential and mixed uses.  The 1965 
development plan, had it been developed, would have provided necessary commercial, retail 
and service uses to the broader Silver Creek area.  The current plan seeks to address this 
historical lack of services in the neighborhood, while honoring the intent of the current General 
Plan by providing residential uses to bridge the scale of the adjacent light-industrial and 
commercial uses to the single-family homes on the opposite side of the development. 
 
The improvements planned for the development include significant connectivity upgrades.  The 
design utilizes a portion of a platted right-of-way from the original 1965 plat, intended to 
connect the residential subdivision to the West with Silver Creek Road.  This new road will 
provide an alternative ingress and egress to the residential subdivision, dispersing traffic more 
efficiently than the current roadway patterns.  Pedestrian connections, particularly those 
crossing Silver Creek Road, have long been missing from the lower Silver Creek area.  With the 
roundabout improvements and the trail connections planned for the development, safer access 
to and from the East side of Silver Creek Road (and the pedestrian tunnel a little more than ½ 
mile away under I-80) completes the gap between existing trail networks. 
 
5. Site Design: How is the proposed development designed to take advantage of the existing 
topography, landscape features, trees, wildlife corridors, existing structures, minimize site 
grading, etc.? 
 
Response: 
 
The majority of the development area has been historically modified, dating back to at least the 
1880’s, when a portion of the Utah Eastern Railroad was constructed across the middle of the 
property.  Significant areas of grading, fill and road construction on the property were recorded 
in at least three separate occurrences – in the 1960’s, the 1990’s and the mid-2000’s – all prior 
to development of the adjacent residential subdivision.  All records appear to indicate various 
storm drainage discharge both on and adjacent to the property, while evidence of continued 
EXHIBIT A4
49
storm drainage from outside the property still exist, including surface runoff from the East side 
of Silver Creek Road and from the I-80/US-40 interchange.  Due to the significance of the past 
disturbance of the property, infrastructure improvements built (then abandoned), and the 
continued storm drainage originating off-site, the proposed grading is designed to blend the 
adjacent grades within the development and resolve the man-made drainage flows currently 
impacting the property.   
 
Very little natural landscaping remains on the property and no identified wildlife corridors are 
found on the property, likely due to its infill location and proximity to the freeway interchange.  
However, the design incorporates a larger set back than required to the drainage way at the 
Northwestern corner of the property, where the most visible grasses grow adjacent to the 
flowline.  This set back will ensure a clear pathway for storm drainage through the site in a 
location as close as possible to the historical flowline (inasmuch as it can be determined from 
historical records). 
 
Open space is planned at over 42% of the total development area, far exceeding the minimum 
requirement and allowing for a less dense design than otherwise is possible for the proposed 
zone. 
 
6. Complete Street Design: How is the proposed development street/circulation system designed to 
accommodate a variety of transportation modes (where appropriate), easy route finding, and 
safe speeds? 
 
Response: 
 
Roads are designed to rural local standards (see above response # 1), with two, 12’ wide drive 
aisles and two, 2’ wide shoulders.  The construction detail shown on sheet C-202 is identical to 
the adjacent residential subdivision to the West of the development.  Roads are intended to 
have a 25-mph speed limit.  The pedestrian and bicycle trail is intentionally separated from the 
roadway for both aesthetics and safety reasons, with identified crossings in highly visible 
locations.  Signage will be provided at each intersection, in addition to monument signage in the 
commercial areas surrounding the roundabout. 
 
7. Parking Areas: How does the proposed development balance the need for parking with the need 
to design parking areas in a manner that minimizes visibility, site grading, stormwater runoff, 
and exterior lighting? 
 
Response: 
 
By clustering the commercial uses near the roundabout, the parking requirement can be 
accommodated in two parking lots: 1) a smaller retail frontage lot for buildings A & B, and 2) a 
larger central lot shared by buildings C, D, E, F & G, which is surrounded by buildings.  This 
configuration consolidates parking for shared uses, while visibly shielding the majority of parking 
spaces from the adjacent public roadways.  The location of affordable housing units is also 
EXHIBIT A5
50
purposeful, as it provides dedicated parking adjacent to the buildings (specifically a reserved 
parking stall per unit), while allowing overflow/shared parking in the commercial lot during off-
business hours.  
 
The residential townhomes are designed to conceal the garages as much as possible from the 
road, by creating an auto-court with a single driveway access serving six units.  This approach 
allows the residential buildings to be self-parked (with two garage stalls each), while minimizing 
the driveway cuts to a more traditional pedestrian scale.  For example, buildings N through V 
(those adjacent to the single-family homes to the West), have the same number of driveways as 
the homes behind them (nine) in the same distance.  Visitor parking is intended to be on-street 
and temporary, operating similar to the residential subdivision to the West. 
 
8. Public and Private Outdoor Spaces: What are the proposed development’s need(s) for outdoor 
space, open space, habitat/wildlife areas, parks, or outdoor amenity areas? How does the 
proposed development address these needs? 
 
Response: 
 
The primary amenity for the development is the adjacent commercial uses, including the 
building area designed for non-profit use as a childcare facility.  Providing walkable shopping, 
restaurants, office spaces and other community uses reduces the need for residents to drive for 
services.  In addition to the commercial amenities, the neighborhood park is designed to be 
accessible by pedestrian trails from every building in the development area and is planned to 
include recreational space for a variety of age groups and abilities.  The neighborhood park 
location is also thoughtful, providing morning sun from the East and Southern exposure for most 
of the year, while being physically removed from vehicular roadways in a “backyard” space 
shared by several residential buildings.   
 
The trail system acts as its own amenity, giving both residents and neighbors access to a 
dedicated pedestrian trail that is connected to the broader network of trails in the area.  
Connections from the single-family homes to the West are encouraged, as a simple backyard 
gate would provide off-street access to the trails for the neighborhood.  On-grade patios and 
decks are designed in most residential units, including the ground-floor affordable housing units, 
providing private outdoor space dedicated to residents. 
 
9. External Storage and Service Facilities: How does the proposed project address needs for 
recycling, garbage collection, above ground utility equipment, mail facilities, service and delivery 
areas, equipment storage, etc.? 
 
Response: 
 
The development includes a pull-out location for central mail/package delivery and is designed 
as a walk-to building for residents.  Waste and recycling enclosures are provided for shared 
commercial uses, in addition to the affordable housing units, in central locations.  The 
EXHIBIT A6
51
residential townhomes are intended to operate with traditional roll-out bins for weekly 
collection.  Utility locations have been incorporated into the site design, subject to provider 
review and have ample alternate locations as needed for efficient site design. 
 
10. Building Design: How does the building/buildings within the development provide good quality 
internal and external environments for their users, promoting health and welfare? How does the 
building/buildings relate positively to the private, shared, and public spaces in the area? 
 
Response: 
 
By deliberately reducing the height of the commercial units to one-story and the residential 
buildings to two-stories, the site responds favorably to a pedestrian scale.  Further, the 
residential townhomes are designed to mimic two single family home façades from the street 
view, which relate to a single driveway in the middle of the building.  A flat roof is designed 
along the rear of the residential townhomes to reduce the overall scale of the building, 
particularly along the shared property lines with the single-family homes to the West.   
 
Prioritizing shared spaces in the development, such as trails, the neighborhood park, commercial 
uses and a childcare facility, rather than expansive private spaces gives residents a better chance 
to know their neighbors and create a community within the broader community.  Integrating 
affordable housing, retail and restaurant uses, together with connections to the adjacent 
community provides for a true locale where all types of people can live, work and play.  
 
Submittal Requirements: Written description of the proposed rezone 
 
The updated application materials are the result of more than four years of collaboration and 
feedback from the community, planning commission, planning staff and market consultants.  
The end result is a smaller scale, neighborhood-oriented plan that is designed to comply with 
every requirement of the Snyderville Basin Development code for the Community Commercial 
zone, in addition to the envisioned mixed-use area in the General Plan.  Commercial density 
from the original plans has been reduced by more than 70% and residential units by more than 
50%, allowing for a development with more open space, better parking configurations, shorter 
and smaller buildings and a neighborhood park, while retaining the connectivity from the 
original plans through the property. 
 
The layout of uses on the property is intentional, giving preference to single-story, small 
footprint commercial uses where they abut other commercial uses adjacent to Silver Creek Road 
and the roundabout, giving way to less intense, two-story residential uses as a transitional zone 
between the commercial uses and the single-family homes to the West.  As presented on Sheet 
G-002, every effort was made to ensure that the location of development, height of buildings, 
pedestrian and vehicular circulation, affordable housing, community benefits, open space and 
parking (among others) was carefully modeled into a cohesive neighborhood that will feel as if it 
were always intended to be built this way.   
 
EXHIBIT A7
52
14
24'-0"
24'-0"
5
24'-0" 14
G
W
I
H
V
U
S
T
R
Q
P
N
O
14
24'-0"
26
BA
8
6
12
26
24'-0"TYP.97
E
F
D
3
15
11
6
C
24
K
Nanga BearLane
L
M
12'-0"
SIDE YARD
SETBACK
24'-0"
6
30
15
7
4
J
24'-0"
TYP.
Nanga Bear
Lane
21
24'-0"
12'-0"
SIDE YARDSETBACK
PUBLIC UTILITY
EASEMENT(10'-0" WIDE)20'-0"  SBWRD
UTILITY & ACCESS
EASEMENT
30'-0"
FRONTYARD
SETBACK
12'-0"
SIDE YARD
SETBACK
12'-0"
SIDE YARDSETBACK 30'-0"
FRONTYARDSETBACK
30'-0"
FRONT YARD
SETBACK
30'-0"FRONT YARD
SETBACK
100'-0"
I-80 UDOT
R.O.W. SETBACK
30'-0"
FRONT YARD
SETBACK
20'-0"
UTILITY
EASEMENT
30'-0"
FRONT YARDSETBACK
30'-0"
FRONT YARDSETBACK
50'-0" UTILITY
EASEMENT & R.O.W.
Parking:
Total Parking = 182 Stalls
144 Parking Stalls for Commercial
  24 Parking Stalls for Apartments
  14 Parking Stalls for Non-Profit
Townhomes (Self-Parked in Garages)
Easements and Setbacks:
Nanga Bear Lane
Proposed Property Line
30' Setback
Parking Lot Area Outline
Development Data:
 Building Pads:Square Feet 
Commercial:
A (1 Floor)  3,000 sf
B (1 Floor)  7,000 sf
C (1 Floor)  6,000 sf
D (1 Floor)  4,000 sf
E (1 Floor)  4,000 sf
F (1 Floor)  4,000 sf
G (1 Floor)4,000 sf
Total:32,000 sf
Residential - Affordable:
H (2 Floors)  8,120 sf   8 Units
 I (2 Floors)  8,120 sf   8 Units
J (2 Floors)  5,840 sf   8 Units
Total:22,080 sf  24 Units
Residential (Townhomes):
K (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
L (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
M (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
N (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
O (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
P (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
Q (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
R (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
S (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
T (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
U (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
V (2 Floors)14,280 sf  6 Units
Total:             171,360 sf  72 Units
Non-Profit Use: 
W (2 Floors) 4,000 sf
Project Total:             229,440 sf  96 Units
Existing Property Lines, Typ.
Plaza Area, Typ.
E-Bike Charging Station
Outdoor Play Area
Open Space, Typ.
Open Space, Typ.
Pickleball /Basketball Court
Pavillion
Playground
Jumping Pillow
Stop Sign
Trash Enclosure
Trash Enclosure
Open Space, Typ.
Trash Enclosure
Mailboxes for Townhomes &
Apartments w/ Pull Out
Transit Stop
Earl StreetYield Sign
Neighborhood Trail, Typ.
(Material to be Determined)
Monument Sign
Monument Sign
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2022
05/07/25
Crossroads at Silver Creek
L-001 Setbacks Exhibit
N
045180 90
Bench, Typ.
Drop-Off Area
ADA Parking, Typ.
Bike Racks
Earl Street Public
Roadway Easement to be
Relocated to the New Proposed
Roundabout Parcel
Parking Lot Area #2
Parking Lot Area #1
Parking Lot Area #3
20'-0" SBWRD Utility & Access
Easement to be Modified
Easements, Rights Of Way (R.O.W.), and Setbacks:
Front Yard Setback
Side Yard Setback
I-80 UDOT R.O.W. Setback
Utility Easements
R.O.W Easements
Location Based
on 1967 Plat
EXHIBIT A8
53
14
24'-0"
24'-0"
5
24'-0" 14
G
W
I
H
V
U
S
T
R
Q
P
N
O
14
24'-0"
26
BA
8
6
12
26
24'-0"TYP.97
E
F
D
3
15
11
6
C
24
K
Nanga BearLane
L
M
12'-0"
SIDE YARD
SETBACK
24'-0"
6
30
15
7
4
J
24'-0"
TYP.
Nanga Bear
Lane
21
24'-0"
12'-0"
SIDE YARDSETBACK
PUBLIC UTILITY
EASEMENT(10'-0" WIDE)20'-0"  SBWRD
UTILITY & ACCESS
EASEMENT
30'-0"
FRONTYARD
SETBACK
12'-0"
SIDE YARD
SETBACK
12'-0"
SIDE YARDSETBACK 30'-0"
FRONTYARDSETBACK
30'-0"
FRONT YARD
SETBACK
30'-0"FRONT YARD
SETBACK
100'-0"
I-80 UDOT
R.O.W. SETBACK
30'-0"
FRONT YARD
SETBACK
20'-0"
UTILITY
EASEMENT
30'-0"
FRONT YARDSETBACK
30'-0"
FRONT YARDSETBACK
50'-0" UTILITY
EASEMENT & R.O.W.
Existing Property Lines, Typ.
Plaza Area, Typ.
E-Bike Charging Station
Outdoor Play Area
Stop Sign
Trash Enclosure
Trash Enclosure
Open Space, Typ.
Trash Enclosure
Mailboxes for Townhomes &
Apartments w/ Pull Out
Transit Stop
Earl StreetYield Sign
Neighborhood Trail, Typ.
(Material to be Determined)
Monument Sign
Monument Sign
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2022
05/07/25
Crossroads at Silver Creek
L-001A Easement & ROW Exhibit
N
045180 90
Bench, Typ.
Drop-Off Area
ADA Parking, Typ.
Bike Racks
Earl Street Public
Roadway Easement to be
Relocated to the New Proposed
Roundabout Parcel
Open Space, Typ.
Open Space, Typ.
Pickleball /Basketball Court
Pavillion
Playground
Jumping Pillow
Easements, Rights Of Way (R.O.W.), and Setbacks:
Front Yard Setback
Side Yard Setback
I-80 UDOT R.O.W. Setback
Utility Easements
R.O.W Easements
Location Based
on 1967 Plat
EXHIBIT A9
54
14
24'-0"
24'-0"
5
24'-0" 14
G
W
I
H
V
U
S
T
R
Q
P
N
O
14
24'-0"
26
BA
8
6
12
26
24'-0"TYP.97
E
F
D
3
15
11
6
C
24
K
Nanga BearLane
L
M
12'-0"
SIDE YARD
SETBACK
24'-0"
6
30
15
7
4
J
24'-0"
TYP.
Nanga Bear
Lane
21
24'-0"
12'-0"
SIDE YARDSETBACK
PUBLIC UTILITY
EASEMENT(10'-0" WIDE)20'-0"  SBWRD
UTILITY & ACCESS
EASEMENT
30'-0"
FRONTYARD
SETBACK
12'-0"
SIDE YARD
SETBACK
12'-0"
SIDE YARDSETBACK 30'-0"
FRONTYARDSETBACK
30'-0"
FRONT YARD
SETBACK
30'-0"FRONT YARD
SETBACK
100'-0"
I-80 UDOT
R.O.W. SETBACK
30'-0"
FRONT YARD
SETBACK
20'-0"
UTILITY
EASEMENT
30'-0"
FRONT YARDSETBACK
30'-0"
FRONT YARDSETBACK
50'-0" UTILITY
EASEMENT & R.O.W.
Existing Property Lines, Typ.
Plaza Area, Typ.
E-Bike Charging Station
Outdoor Play Area
Stop Sign
Trash Enclosure
Trash Enclosure
Open Space, Typ.
Trash Enclosure
Mailboxes for Townhomes &
Apartments w/ Pull Out
Transit Stop
Earl StreetYield Sign
Neighborhood Trail, Typ.
(Material to be Determined)
Monument Sign
Monument Sign
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2022
05/07/25
Crossroads at Silver Creek
L-001B Parking Lot SF Footage Exhibit
N
045180 90
Bench, Typ.
Drop-Off Area
ADA Parking, Typ.
Bike Racks
Earl Street Public
Roadway Easement to be
Relocated to the New Proposed
Roundabout Parcel
Open Space, Typ.
Open Space, Typ.
Pickleball /Basketball Court
Pavillion
Playground
Jumping Pillow
Parking Lot Area Outline
Parking Lot Area #2
Parking Lot Area #1
Parking Lot Area #3
Easements, Rights Of Way (R.O.W.), and Setbacks:
Front Yard Setback
Side Yard Setback
I-80 UDOT R.O.W. Setback
Utility Easements
R.O.W Easements
Summit County Code 10-4-9:  Parking Requirements
15. Parking Area Setbacks: All parking areas with fifteen (15) or more spaces shall be subject to the regulations below:
a. Parking areas shall be set back at least the following distances in order to provide a buffer:
(1) Thirty feet (30') from road rights of way, except for a property access driveway;
(2) Thirty feet (30') from side and rear property lines;
(3) Ten feet (10') from the facade of a structure.
Location Based
on 1967 Plat
EXHIBIT A10
55
EXHIBIT B1
56
EXHIBIT B2
57
EXHIBIT B3
58
EXHIBIT B4
59
20'-0"
UTILITY
EASEMENT
20'-0"  SBWRD
UTILITY & ACCESS
EASEMENT
14
24'-0"
26
BA
8
4
E
D
24G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
30'-0"
FRONT YARD
SETBACK
24'-0"TYP.
24'-0"TYP.
C
F
18
52
6
4
5
20
20
7
10
118
12'-0"
SIDE YARDSETBACK
12'-0"
SIDE YARD
SETBACK
PUBLIC UTILITY
EASEMENT(10'-0" WIDE)
30'-0"
FRONT YARDSETBACK
30'-0"
FRONT YARDSETBACK
50'-0" UTILITY
EASEMENT & R.O.W.
12'-0"
SIDE YARDSETBACK 30'-0"
FRONTYARDSETBACK
30'-0"
FRONT YARD
SETBACK
30'-0"
FRONTYARD
SETBACK
12'-0"
SIDE YARDSETBACK
30'-0"FRONT YARD
SETBACK
100'-0"
I-80 UDOT
R.O.W. SETBACK
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2022
05/07/25
Crossroads at Silver Creek
L-2.1
N
040160 80
Easements, Rights Of Way (R.O.W.), and Setbacks:
Front Yard Setback
Side Yard Setback
I-80 UDOT R.O.W. Setback
Utility Easements
R.O.W Easements
Proposed Parking Lots
Earl Street Public
Roadway Easement to be
Relocated to the New Proposed
Roundabout Parcel
Base Density - Exhibit 2.1
Parking:
Total Parking = 168 Stalls
144 Parking Stalls for Commercial
  24 Parking Stalls for Apartments
Townhomes (Self-Parked in Garages)
Development Data:
 Building Pads:Square Feet 
Commercial:
A (1 Floor)  3,000 sf
B (1 Floor)  7,000 sf
C (1 Floor)  4,000 sf
D (1 Floor)  4,000 sf
E (1 Floor)  4,000 sf
F (1 Floor)  4,000 sf
G (1 Floor)  6,000 sf
Total:32,000 sf
Residential - Affordable:
H (2 Floors)  8,120 sf   8 Units
 I (2 Floors)  8,120 sf   8 Units
Total:16,240 sf  16 Units
Residential (Townhomes):
J (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
K (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
L (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
M (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
N (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
O (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
P (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
Q (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
R (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
S (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
T (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
U (2 Floors)14,280 sf  6 Units
Total:             171,360 sf  72 Units
    Project Total:             219,600 sf  88 Units
20'-0" SBWRD Utility & Access
Easement to be Modified
Location Based
on 1967 Plat
EXHIBIT C
60
 Community Development Department 
P.O. Box 128 
60 North Main Street 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
  summitcountyutah.gov 
  
 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
To:   Snyderville Basin Planning Commission   
From:   Peter Barnes Community Development Director 
Date of Meeting: July 8, 2025 
Type of Item: Park City Junction Administrative Development Agreement - Discussion 
and Possible Action 
Process:  Administrative Review 
File #:   25-104 
 
 
Proposal 
Steve Borup, representing Dakota Pacific, is requesting that the Snyderville Basin Planning 
Commission (Planning Commission) forward a positive recommendation to the Summit County 
Manager for the Park City Junction Administrative Development Agreement.   
 
This Administrative Development Agreement will establish certain terms, standards and 
procedures applicable to the proposed Mixed-Use Development, which consists of the “P3 
Project” and the “Residential Project”, and the construction of proposed improvements located 
on the PC Junction Property, portions of PCTC-401-AM-X, and the Richins Parcel. (Approx 64.4 
acres total, in six existing parcels) 
 
P3 Project: As part of the application process, the Developer, Summit County and High Valley 
Transit (HVT) have considered entering into a public private partnership to jointly plan a 
redevelopment of the Richins Parcel, a portion of the PC Junction Property, and portions of 
PCTC-401-AM-X, consistent with the General Plan Kimball Junction Neighborhood Plan. The P3 
Project anticipates the demolition of the Richins Building and the Kimball Junction Transit 
Center; the re-location of the Summit County Library to the Skullcandy Building; the 
development of a new transit center and structured parking; a public plaza surrounded by 
mixed uses, including workforce housing (225 units) and a senior living facility, with a 
pedestrian bridge connection to the east side of SR 224. 
 
Residential Project: The remainder of the PC Junction Property will be developed as a 
residential project with a mix of workforce units (275) and market rate units (385).  
 
Project Description 
Project Name:  Park City Junction 
Applicant(s):  Steve Borup for Dakota Pacific   
Property Owners:   Park City Junction LLC, HVT, Summit County   
Location:  Kimball Junction (West)  
61
2 
 
Zone District: Community Commercial CC and Town Center TC   
Parcels:   
PCTC-401-AM-X (7.38 acres) 
PC Junction Property: PCTC-402-AM (4.69ac),  
PCTC-403-AM (21.34 ac),  
PCTC-404-AM (21.40ac), 
PCTC-5B-AM (3.45ac),  
Richins Parcel: SCPS-1-X (6.14ac)    
Type of Process: Administrative    
Final Land Use Authority: County Manager  
 
Vicinity Map 
 
 
 
Background 
 
On December 18, 2024, the Summit County Council approved an amended legislative 
development agreement for the Park City Tech Center via Ordinance No. 987 ("Amended DA"). 
This agreement altered permitted uses, their intensity (low impact, conditional), and 
corresponding densities. 
 
The Amended DA designated 890 residential units (505 deed-restricted workforce/attainable, 
385 market-rate) and 359,500 square feet of commercial space, including a Senior Living 
62
3 
 
Facility, Medical Office Building, and a new Transit Center, collectively known as the "Mixed-
Use Development." 
 
The Amended DA also established an administrative public-private partnership between Dakota 
Pacific Real Estate (DPRE) and Summit County. This partnership included significant community 
benefits: 165 County-owned deed-restricted workforce housing units built by DPRE, a public 
plaza, an SR-224 pedestrian bridge, a parking structure, a new Transit Center on donated land, 
an amphitheater and common green, a park, and $4,000,000 in infrastructure funding from 
DPRE. The development was planned in seven phases, tied to UDOT's SR-224 Kimball Junction 
Traffic Improvement Project. This agreement was the culmination of a six-year approval process 
involving ten public hearings, a negative planning commission recommendation, a lawsuit (won 
by the County), Utah Legislative involvement, and a 4-1 Council vote for a negotiated 
settlement. The Council deemed the Amended DA consistent with the Kimball Junction 
Neighborhood Plan. While the County and High Valley Transit District (HVT) have signed the 
Amended DA, DPRE has not. However, the Council's legislative approval remains valid and in 
force. 
 
During the 2025 General Legislative Session, the Utah Legislature enacted Senate Bill 26 (SB 
26), signed into law by the Governor on March 12, 2025. SB 26 amended Utah Code §63N-3-
603, part of the Housing and Transit Reinvestment Zone Act, effectively rezoning the Mixed-Use 
Development that was the subject of the 2024 Amended DA. This rezoning action is referred to 
in the Administrative Development Agreement as the "State Imposed Entitlement." 
 
The State Imposed Entitlement establishes a new Mixed-Use Zone with specific provisions: 
• Allowed Uses: This zone permits a wide range of uses, including residential, commercial 
(such as office, retail, educational, and healthcare), and essential supporting 
infrastructure. This infrastructure covers elements like parking structures, streets, 
sidewalks, parks, and trails—anything necessary or reasonable for the Mixed-Use 
Development. 
• Densities: 
o Residential: The rezone allows for approximately 885 dwelling units. This can be 
calculated in two ways: either 30 dwelling units per acre for areas dedicated 
solely to residential use, or 15 dwelling units per acre across the entire mixed-
use development.    (proposed 885) 
o Deed-Restricted Affordable Housing: At least 33% of all residential dwelling 
units must be deed-restricted affordable housing, equating to roughly 292 
workforce units of the proposed 885 units. (proposed deed restricted 500) 
o Commercial: Commercial uses are limited to one-third (1/3) of the total planned 
gross building square footage within the subject parcels. This equates to an 
allowed approx. 420,000 SF.    (proposed 359,500 SF) 
• Setbacks: There are no setback requirements. 
• Height Restrictions: There are no height restrictions mandated by the State Imposed 
Entitlement, however the Administrative Development Agreement itself defines “Height 
Standards” shown on and described in Exhibit D to the Agreement .  
63
4 
 
• County Restrictions: The County is explicitly prohibited from imposing any conditions 
that would prevent or create impediments to the Mixed-Use Development. 
• Implementation: The County is mandated to implement the State Imposed Entitlement 
through an administrative process. (see below) 
 
To meet the implementation requirements of SB 26, the Summit County Council passed 
Ordinance No. 992 on April 9, 2025. This temporary zoning ordinance creates an administrative 
development agreement process for the Snyderville Basin, aligning with Utah Code §63N-3-
603. 
 
In this process, the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission acts as the recommending body, 
while the County Manager is the land use authority. The County Manager must hold one public 
hearing, and the Manager’s decision will be formalized in an Administrative Development 
Agreement. 
 
On June 2, 2025, the applicant submitted an Administrative Development Agreement 
application. No additional commercial density over that already anticipated in the 2024 
Amended DA is proposed, while the total number of dwelling units has been reduced by five. 
 
Analysis and Findings 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS  
Snyderville Basin Development Code 10-3-19a. 
Criteria for Approval:  
 
1. The administrative development agreement shall include written consent from 
each landowner whose properties are included within the area subject to the agreement. 
Complies 
 
The December 2024 Amended Development Agreement, already signed by Summit County 
and High Valley Transit (HVT), mirrors the Administrative Development Agreement currently 
before the Planning Commission. The Administrative Development Agreement will be signed by 
all parties involved prior to recordation. 
 
2. The planning commission shall review and make a recommendation to the 
county manager based upon compliance with the zoning or specific rezone, the general 
plan and the code (not otherwise modified by a specific rezone).   
Complies 
For zoning compliance, see above for State Imposed Entitlement (rezone) for allowed uses, 
density, height, setback and code restrictions. Also this Administrative Development Agreement 
is based on and is consistent with the rezone documented in the Amended Development 
Agreement, signed by the County Council in December 2024 which states: 
 
64
5 
 
"The County has reviewed the Code, General Plan, the Kimball Junction Neighborhood 
Plan, and the Original DA, and has determined that Developer has substantially complied 
with the provisions thereof and hereby finds that the P3 Project and the Residential 
Project are consistent with the purpose and intent of the relevant provisions of the 
Snyderville Basin Development Code, the Kimball Junction Neighborhood Plan, the 
General Plan, the Community Commercial Zone, and the Town Center Zone." 
 
The Administrative Development Agreement details the limitations, restrictions, and 
parameters for developing the subject properties. It also outlines the processes and procedures 
for obtaining final approvals and building permits. Where the Administrative Development 
Agreement is silent on specific provisions or standards found elsewhere in Title 10 of the 
County Code, those code provisions remain in effect and apply to the proposal. Additionally, 
the Amended Development Agreement mandates that the developer comply "with all 
applicable Land Use Laws not in conflict with the provisions of the State Imposed Entitlement 
and this Administrative DA, along with all applicable state and federal laws." 
 
3. Following receipt of a recommendation from the planning commission, the 
county manager shall conduct a public hearing. 
Complies 
 
The required public hearing before the County Manager has been scheduled for July 28
th.   
 
4. The county manager, acting as the administrative land use authority, shall 
review and consider the recommendation of the planning commission and the terms and 
conditions of the proposed agreement, and shall make findings that such terms and 
conditions contained in the proposed agreement promote the intent of the zoning or 
rezone (as applicable), complies with the general plan and code (not otherwise modified 
by a specific rezone) and effectively protects the health, safety and general welfare of 
the public. 
Complies 
 
The County Manager shall issue a decision after review and consideration of the Planning 
Commission recommendation and following the required public hearing. 
 
5. Development allowed under this administrative development agreement shall 
comply with appropriate concurrency management provisions of this title, the 
infrastructure standards of this title, and all appropriate criteria and standards 
described in the administrative development agreement. 
Complies 
By executing the Agreement the developer, in accordance with section 3.1.3.2.4 of the 
agreement, has committed to comply with all appropriate concurrency and infrastructure 
requirements of the Code, and all appropriate criteria and standards described in the 
Administrative Development Agreement. In addition to project phasing described in 5.1 of the 
agreement, necessary infrastructure development and utility capacity for each individual 
65
6 
 
project area or site is referred to in sections 5.2 and 5.3 of the Administrative Development 
Agreement.   
 
Section 5.11 of the Administrative Development Agreement requires that all concurrency 
management requirements of the Code and the Summit County Code of Health will have been 
met prior to the approval of a Building Permit.  
 
6. When appropriate, based on the size of the project, the applicant agrees to, at a 
minimum, contribute all capital improvements and facilities necessary to mitigate the 
impacts of the project on the county and its special districts. 
Complies 
 
Specific project requirements are detailed in Section 4 of the Administrative Development 
Agreement. In addition to the capital improvements, facilities and other amenities required to 
be provided, Section 4.4.7 discusses ‘Area Transportation, Traffic, and Transit Solution 
Financing’.   
Of particular interest during the negotiation of the Amended Development Agreement was the 
potential phasing of the development and relationship to the UDOT improvement plans for I80 
and Hwy 224. Project Phasing is being proposed in six ‘tranches’ detailed in Section 5.1 of the 
Administrative Development Agreement  
 
7. Development shall not be permitted to create unacceptable construction 
management impacts. 
Complies 
 
Construction Mitigation Plans (CMPs) are required for all development projects in Summit 
County prior to the issuance of building/grading permits. The Administrative Development 
Agreement identifies this requirement and details items to be addressed by a “Construction 
Mitigation and Management Plan” in section 5.10 of the DA.  
 
8. While a creative approach to the development and use of the land and related 
physical facilities may be allowed by an administrative development agreement, all 
development approved in the agreement shall meet or exceed development quality 
objectives of the general plan and this title. 
Complies 
 
In December 2024, in a Summary of County Determinations, documented in the Amended 
Development Agreement Council found that: 
“The P3 Project and Residential Project meet or exceed development quality and aesthetic 
objectives of the General Plan and the Code, are consistent with the goal of orderly growth in 
the Snyderville Basin, and minimize construction impacts on public infrastructure within the 
Snyderville Basin.” 
[Section 3.1.3.2.6 Amended and Restated Development Agreement for Park City  Junction 
formerly known as Summit Research Park. December 2024] 
66
7 
 
As stated under criteria #2 above, the application for an Administrative Development 
Agreement is based on and is consistent with the rezone documented in the Amended 
Development Agreement, consequently this prior finding is reflected in the Amended 
Development Agreement (section 3.1.3.2.5) 
 
9. The development shall be consistent with the goal of orderly growth and 
minimize construction impacts on public infrastructure within the Snyderville Basin. 
Complies 
As item #8 above: reflecting the prior finding of County Council and recognizing the similarity in 
terms of approved uses, density, general configuration and development standards with the 
Amended Development Agreement, Section 3.1.3.2.5 of the Administrative Development 
Agreement States: “The P3 Project and Residential Project meet or exceed development 
quality and aesthetic objectives of the General Plan and the Code, are consistent with the goal 
of orderly growth in the Snyderville Basin, and minimize construction impacts on public 
infrastructure within the Snyderville Basin so as not to create an unacceptable level of 
construction management impacts.” 
 
10. The development shall protect life and property from natural and manmade 
hazards. 
Complies 
Reflecting the prior findings of County Council and recognizing the similarity in terms of 
approved uses, density, general configuration and development standards between the 
December 2024 Amended Development Agreement and the proposed Administrative 
Development Agreement, the proposed development reasonably assures life and property 
from natural and manmade hazards. 
 
11. The development shall prevent harm to neighboring properties and lands, 
including nuisances. 
Complies 
Reflecting the prior findings of County Council and recognizing the similarity in terms of 
approved uses, density, general configuration and development standards between the 
December 2024 Amended Development Agreement and the proposed Administrative 
Development Agreement, the proposed development reasonably prevents harm to neighboring 
properties and lands.
 
 
Public Notice, Meetings and Comments  
This item was noticed on a regularly scheduled Planning Commission agenda, however, a public 
hearing is not required to be held.  
 
Recommendation 
Staff recommends that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission (SBPC) review the Park City 
Junction Administrative Development Agreement  and forward a positive recommendation to 
67
8 
 
the Summit County Manager, based on the following proposed findings of fact and conclusions 
of law. 
 
Findings of Fact: 
1. On June 2, 2025 Steve Borup, representing Dakota Pacific, submitted an Administrative 
Development Agreement application for Parcels PCTC-402-AM (4.69ac), PCTC-403-AM 
(21.34 ac), PCTC-404-AM (21.40ac), PCTC-5B-AM (3.45ac), PCTC-401-AM-X (7.38 acres) 
and Parcel SCPS-1-X (6.14ac). 
2. Parcels PCTC-402-AM, PCTC-403-AM, PCTC-404-AM, PCTC-5B-AM, PCTC-401-AM-X are 
zoned CC. 
3. Parcel SCPS-1-X is zoned both CC and TC. 
4. The Administrative Development Agreement will establish certain terms, standards and 
procedures applicable to the proposed Mixed Use Development, which consists of the 
“P3 Project” and the “Residential Project”, and the construction of proposed 
improvements located on the PC Junction Property, portions of PCTC-401-AM-X, and the 
Richins Parcel. (Approx 64.4 acres total in six existing parcels). 
5. As part of the application process, the Developer, Summit County and High Valley 
Transit (HVT) have considered entering into a public private partnership to jointly plan a 
redevelopment of the Richins Parcel, a portion of the PC Junction Property, and portions 
of PCTC-401-AM-X, consistent with the General Plan Kimball Junction Neighborhood 
Plan. 
6. The P3 Project anticipates the demolition of the Richins Building and the Kimball 
Junction Transit Center; the re-location of the Summit County Library to the Skullcandy 
Building; the development of a new transit center and structured parking; a public plaza 
surrounded by mixed uses, including workforce housing and senior living, with a 
pedestrian bridge connection to the east side of SR 224. 
7. On December 18, 2024, the Summit County Council approved an amended legislative 
development agreement for the Park City Tech Center via Ordinance No. 987. 
8. The December 18, 2024 amended agreement legislatively rezoned the subject property, 
including adjoining County properties, altering permitted uses, their intensity (low 
impact, conditional), and corresponding densities. 
9. The December18, 2024 rezone designated 890 residential units (505 deed-restricted 
workforce/attainable, 385 market-rate) and 359,500 square feet of commercial space, 
including a Senior Living Facility, Medical Office Building, and a new Transit Center, 
collectively known as the "Mixed-Use Development." 
10. During the 2025 General Legislative Session, the Utah Legislature enacted Senate Bill 26 
(SB 26), signed into law by the Governor on March 12, 2025.  
11. SB 26 amended Utah Code §63N-3-603, part of the Housing and Transit Reinvestment 
Zone Act, effectively rezoning the Mixed-Use Development that was the subject of the 
2024 Amended DA.  
12. This rezoning action is referred to in the Administrative Development Agreement as the 
"State Imposed Entitlement." 
13. The State Imposed Entitlement establishes a new Mixed-Use Zone with specific 
provisions: 
68
9 
 
Allowed Uses: This zone permits a wide range of uses, including residential, commercial 
(such as office, retail, educational, and healthcare), and essential supporting 
infrastructure. This infrastructure covers elements like parking structures, streets, 
sidewalks, parks, and trails—anything necessary or reasonable for the Mixed-Use 
Development. 
Densities: 
a. Residential: The rezone allows for approximately 885 dwelling units. This can be 
calculated in two ways: either 30 dwelling units per acre for areas dedicated 
solely to residential use, or 15 dwelling units per acre across the entire mixed-
use development. 
b. Deed-Restricted Affordable Housing: At least 33% of all residential dwelling units 
must be deed-restricted affordable housing (equating to roughly 292 workforce 
units of the proposed 885 units) 
c. Commercial: Commercial uses are limited to one-third (1/3) of the total planned 
gross building square footage within the subject parcels 
There are no setback requirements. 
There are no height restrictions mandated by the State Imposed Entitlement, however 
the Administrative Development Agreement itself defines “Height Standards” shown on 
and described in Exhibit D to the Agreement .  
The County is explicitly prohibited from imposing any conditions that would prevent or 
create impediments to the Mixed-Use Development. 
The County is mandated to implement the State Imposed Entitlement through an 
administrative process.  
14. To meet the requirements of SB 26, the Summit County Council passed Ordinance No. 
992 on April 9, 2025.  
15. This temporary zoning ordinance creates an administrative development agreement 
process for the Snyderville Basin, aligning with Utah Code §63N-3-603. 
16. In this process, the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission acts as the recommending 
body, while the County Manager is the land use authority.  
17. The County Manager must hold one public hearing, and the Manager’s decision will be 
formalized in an Administrative Development Agreement. 
18. The December 2024 Amended Development Agreement, signed by Summit County and 
High Valley Transit (HVT), mirrors the Administrative Development Agreement currently 
before the Planning Commission.  
19. The Administrative Development Agreement will be signed by all parties involved, prior 
to recordation. 
20. The Administrative Development Agreement details the limitations, restrictions, and 
parameters for developing the subject properties.  
21. The Administrative Development Agreement outlines the processes and procedures for 
obtaining final approvals and building permits.  
22. Where the Administrative Development Agreement is silent on specific provisions or 
standards found elsewhere in Title 10 of the County Code, those code provisions remain 
in effect and apply to the proposal.  
69
10 
 
23. The Amended Development Agreement mandates that the developer comply "with all 
applicable Land Use Laws not in conflict with the provisions of the State Imposed 
Entitlement and this Administrative DA, along with all applicable state and federal laws." 
24. The required public hearing before the County Manager has been scheduled for July 
28th, 2025 
25. The County Manager shall issue a decision after review and consideration of the 
Planning Commission recommendation and following the required public hearing. 
26. By executing the Agreement the developer, in accordance with section 3.1.3.2.4 of the 
agreement, has committed to comply with all appropriate concurrency and 
infrastructure requirements of the Code, and all appropriate criteria and standards 
described in the Administrative Development Agreement. 
27. In addition to project phasing described in 5.1 of the agreement, necessary 
infrastructure development and utility capacity for each individual project area or site is 
referred to in sections 5.2 and 5.3 of the Administrative Development Agreement.   
28. Specific project requirements and amenities are detailed in Section 4 of the 
Administrative Development Agreement, including the Developer’s obligations for 
traffic mitigation, transit solution financing, parking, essential public infrastructure and 
other project requirements.  
29. In December 2024, Council found that: 
“The P3 Project and Residential Project meet or exceed development quality and 
aesthetic objectives of the General Plan and the Code, are consistent with the goal of 
orderly growth in the Snyderville Basin, and minimize construction impacts on public 
infrastructure within the Snyderville Basin.” 
[Section 3.1.3.2.6 Amended and Restated 
Development Agreement for Park City Junction formerly known as Summit Research Park. December 2024]  
30.  The Administrative Development Agreement, in terms of approved uses, density, 
general configuration and development standards, is based on and is consistent with the 
Amended Development Agreement. 
 
 
Conclusions of Law:  
1. The Administrative Development Agreement will include written consent from each 
landowner whose properties are included within the area subject to the agreement. 
2. The planning commission shall review and make a recommendation to the county 
manager based upon compliance with the zoning or specific rezone, the general plan 
and the code (not otherwise modified by a specific rezone).   
3. Following receipt of a recommendation from the planning commission, the county 
manager will conduct a public hearing. 
4. The county manager, acting as the administrative land use authority, shall review and 
consider the recommendation of the planning commission and the terms and conditions 
of the proposed agreement, and shall make findings that such terms and conditions 
contained in the proposed agreement promote the intent of the zoning or rezone (as 
applicable), complies with the general plan and code (not otherwise modified by a 
specific rezone) and effectively protects the health, safety and general welfare of the 
public. 
70
11 
5. Development allowed under this Administrative Development Agreement complies with
appropriate concurrency management provisions of this title, the infrastructure
standards of this title, and all appropriate criteria and standards described in the
Administrative Development Agreement.
6. The  applicant has agreed to contribute all capital improvements and facilities necessary
to mitigate the impacts of the project on the county and its special districts.
7. Development will not create unacceptable construction management impacts.
8. Development approved in the agreement meets or exceeds development quality
objectives of the general plan and this title.
9. Development is consistent with the goal of orderly growth and minimizes construction
impacts on public infrastructure within the Snyderville Basin.
10. The development protects life and property from natural and manmade hazards.
11. The development prevents harm to neighboring properties and lands, including
nuisances.
Attachments 
Exhibit A- ADMINISTRATIVE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FOR PARK CITY JUNCTION 
71
Page 1 of 65 
4936-1174-3798
RECORDING REQUESTED BY AND 
WHEN RECORDED, RETURN TO: 
David L. Thomas 
Chief Civil Deputy 
Summit County Attorney’s Office 
60 N. Main Street 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
ADMINISTRATIVE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT 
FOR PARK CITY JUNCTION  
THIS ADMINISTRATIVE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT (this “Administrative 
DA”) is entered into as of this ___  day of _________ 2025, (“Effective Date”) by and between 
PARK CITY JUNCTION LLC, a Utah limited liability company (“Developer”), and SUMMIT 
COUNTY, a political subdivision of the State of Utah, by and through the Summit County 
Manager, in his role as both the administrative land use authority and the chief executive officer 
of Summit County (together, the “County”). Developer and the County are individually referred 
to herein as a “Party” or collectively as the “Parties”. 
RECITALS 
A. The County and Boyer Snyderville Junction, L.C., a Utah limited liability company
(“Boyer”) are parties to that certain Development Agreement for the Summit Research Park (“Park 
City Tech Center”), dated December 10, 2008, and recorded with the Summit County Recorder’s 
Office (the “ Recorder’s Office”) on December 11, 2008, as Entry No. 860845, in Book 1959, 
beginning at Page 1217, as amended by that certain First Amendment to the Development 
Agreement, dated May 15, 2014 and recorded with the Recorder’s Office on December 9, 2015 as 
Entry No. 01034562, in Book 23214, beginning at Page 1194 (collectively, the “Original DA”).  
B. Boyer was the owner of approximately 89 acres of land and appurtenant real
property rights located in Summit County, Utah, the legal description of which land was attached 
to the Original DA as Exhibit A (the “ Research Park Property”). Boyer was to develop a new 
Research Park or Tech Center on the Research Park Property (“ Research Park”). The Research 
Park was to be constructed in several distinct subdivision and vertical improvement development 
projects within certain development sites to be created. 
C. As of the Effective Date, Boyer or Developer have developed the so -called
“Visitors Center Building”, which had been constructed upon Lot 5A, Park City Tech Center Lot 
5 Subdivision and Condo Plat, according to the official plat on file in the Recorder’s Office and 
identified as Summit County Tax Parcel No(s). PCTCC -A-1-X, PCTCC-A-2, PCTCC-A-3, and 
PCTCC-A.  
D. As of the Effective Date, the County owns the so called “ Skullcandy Building”
which has been constructed upon Lot 4, Park City Tech Center Lot 4 Subdivision, according to the 
Exhibit A
72
 
Page 2 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
official plan on file in the Recorder’s Office and identified as Summit County Tax Parcel No. 
PCTC-401-AM-X, which the County purchased in July 2024. 
E. The development of the Research Park under the Original DA has not progressed 
or been implemented. 
F. In 2018, Developer acquired from Boyer, Summit County Tax Parcel No(s). PCTC-
5B-AM, PCTC -402-AM, PCTC -403-AM, PCTC -404-AM, approximately 50.88 acres of the 
Research Park Property (“PC Junction Property”).  
G. The Research Park is located in the Kimball Junction Neighborhood. In 2019, the 
Summit County Council acting in their legislative capacity adopted an amendment to the 
Snyderville Basin General Plan (“ General Plan ”) specifically amending the Kimball Junction 
Neighborhood provisions within the General Plan.  The “Kimball Junction Neighborhood Plan” 
promotes mixed-use neighborhoods, including residential and other uses, walkability within the 
neighborhood and surrounding areas within the Kimball Junction Ne ighborhood and a more 
pedestrian friendly orientation for development. 
H. The Research Park was approved in December 2008, as a single use tech/office 
project. Subsequent to that approval, the Snyderville Basin General Plan and in particular, the 
Kimball Junction Neighborhood Plan now establishes as key action points, resident ial zoning 
which includes residential and workforce housing uses, as well as retail, commercial, and office 
uses, improved performance relating to pedestrian connectivity, and connectivity to the public 
realm, multi-modal transportation, and reduction in surface parking.   
I. Prior to or contemporaneously with the approval of the Original DA, the County 
re-zoned the Research Park Property, including the PC Junction Property, to the Community 
Commercial zone pursuant to the provisions of the Snyderville Basin Development Code as 
codified in Title 10 of the Summit County Code (the “Code”). 
J.  High Valley Transit District, a small public transit district organized under the laws 
of the State of Utah (“ HVT”), owns and operates the “ Kimball Junction Transit Center ” on a 
portion of Summit County Tax Parcel No. SCPS-1-X (the “Richins Parcel”), which is adjacent to 
the Research Park Property.  The Richins Parcel also houses the “ Summit County Library ” 
within the Sheldon D. Richins County Services Building (the “ Richins Building”).  The Richins 
Parcel was previously re-zoned to the Town Center zone district and the Community Commercial 
zone district. 
K. On August 2, 2019, Developer made application to the County to formally amend 
the Original DA to more fully comport with the Kimball Junction Neighborhood Plan, which 
application included the incorporation of the Richins Parcel , and the relocation of the Kimball 
Junction Transit Center (the “Entitlement Agreement Application”). 
L. As part of the application process, the Developer, County and HVT have considered 
entering into a public private partnership to jointly plan a redevelopment of the Richins Parcel, a 
portion of the PC Junction Property, and portions of PCTC -401-AM-X, cons istent with the 
Kimball Junction Neighborhood Plan (the “ P3 Project”) and Utah Code §17 -27a-528.  The P3 
Project anticipates the demolition of the Richins Building and the Kimball Junction Transit Center; 
73
 
Page 3 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
the re-location of the Summit County Library to the Skullcandy Building; the development of a 
new transit center and structured parking; a public plaza surrounded by mixed uses, including 
workforce housing and senior living, with a pedestrian bridge connec tion to the east side of SR 
224. 
M. The remainder of the PC Junction Property will be developed as a residential project 
(the “Residential Project”). 
N. Senate Bill 26 ( “SB 26 ”) was enacted by the Utah Legislature during its 2025 
General Session and signed into law by the Governor of the State of Utah (the “ Governor”) on 
March 12, 2025.  SB 26 became effective upon the signature of the Governor.  SB 26 modified 
Utah Code §63N-3-603. 
O. As amended by SB 26, Utah Code §63N -3-603(8) (“Subsection (8)”) applies to a 
specified county (as defined in Subsection (8)) that has created a small public transit district (as 
defined in Utah Code §17 -27a-802) on or before January 1, 2022. Subsection (8) applies to the 
County because the County is a specified county which created HVT, a small public transit district, 
prior to January 1, 2022.  
P. Subsection (8) provides that if (i) an owner of undeveloped property within the 
unincorporated area of the County has filed an entitlement agreement (as defined in Subsection 
(8)) application on or before December 31, 2022, (ii) which entitlement agreem ent application 
includes an area within 1/3 mile radius of a public transit hub (as defined in Utah Code §63N -3-
602(34)), including parcels that are intersected by the 1/3 mile radius, and (iii) the County has 
failed to approve such entitlement agreement a pplication on or before December 31, 2022, then 
such owner shall have the right to develop and build a mixed-use development (as defined in Utah 
Code §63N-3-602(27)) in accordance with Subsection (8) (the “State Imposed Entitlement”). 
Q. Developer has the right to the State Imposed Entitlement for the PC Junction 
Property under and pursuant to Subsection (8) because (i) Developer filed the Entitlement 
Agreement Application with the County on August 2, 2019, (ii) which Entitlement Agreement 
Application included an area within 1/3 mile radius of the Kimball Junction Transit Center, a 
public transit hub (as has been judicially determined in the case styled Summit County v. Park 
City Junction, LLC, et. al. , Civil No. 230500097), and (iii) th e County failed to approve 
Developer’s Entitlement Agreement Application on or before December 31, 2022. 
R. In accordance with Subsection (8), the State Imposed Entitlement includes the 
following rights, entitlements, and conditions: 
 i. Mixed-use development:  
(a) Uses: multi -family residential, residential, commercial (including 
but not limited to office, retail, educational, and healthcare), and any other 
infrastructure element necessary or reasonable to support the mixed -use 
development (including but not lim ited to parking infrastructure, parking 
structures, streets, sidewalks, parks, and trails). 
  (b) Densities:  
74
 
Page 4 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
(i) Residential. 
(a) A maximum number of dwelling units (as defined in Utah 
Code §63N-3-602(14)) equal to thirty (30) multiplied by the 
total acres of developable area (as defined in Utah Code 
§63N-3-602(13)) within the mixed -use development 
dedicated exclusively to residential uses; or 
(b) A maximum number of dwelling units equal to fifteen (15) 
multiplied by the total acres of the mixed-use development. 
(c) At least thirty -three percent (33%) of the dwelling units as 
affordable housing (as defined in Utah Code §63N -3-
602(1)). 
(ii) Commercial. Commercial uses including office, retail, 
educational, and healthcare in support of the mixed -use 
development constituting no more than one third (1/3) of the 
total planned gross building square footage of the subject 
parcels.  
ii. Restriction: The County is prohibited from imposing any condition on the 
mixed-use development, and may not take an action or enforce an agreement, ordinance, 
regulation, or requirement, that prevents or creates development impediments to the 
development of the mixed -use development as described in Subsection (8), which 
impediments may include, without limitation, set-backs, architectural design standards and 
height standards. 
 
iii. Implementation: The County must implement the State Imposed 
Entitlement through an administrative process. Pursuant to Subsection (8), a County action 
to approve or implement the development of a mixed-use development as described in the 
State Imposed Entitlement in Subsection (8) shall constitute an administrative action taken 
by the County and does not require county legislative action. 
 
S. The Parties now desire to implement the State Imposed Entitlement as it relates 
solely to the PC Junction Property, the Richins Parcel, and portions of PCTC -401-AM-X, which 
were the lands set forth in the Entitlement Agreement Application, and not to th e entire Research 
Park Property, through an administrative development agreement process, Summit County Code 
§10-3-19a, consistent with Utah Code §17 -27a-528, in order to establish certain terms, standards 
and procedures that will be applicable to the P3 P roject and the Residential Project, and the 
construction of proposed improvements located on the PC Junction Property, portions of PCTC -
401-AM-X, and the Richins Parcel. 
T. The County recognizes that the administrative development agreement process 
leading to this Administrative DA will result in tangible benefits to the County through helping 
generate funding to help construct necessary and critical transportation and transit improvements 
within the Kimball Junction Neighborhood, the activation of a public plaza and connectivity to the 
75
 
Page 5 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
east side of SR 224, and an increase in needed rental workforce housing and senior living housing, 
for which reasons the County is willing to agree to vest the development of the PC Junction 
Property and the Richins Parcel pursuant to the terms of this Administrative DA against future 
legislative changes in the Land Use Laws ( defined below ) that would be inconsistent with the 
provisions in this Administrative DA. 
U. This Administrative DA provides detailed terms regarding the P3 Project and 
Residential Project. The Parties agree that each shall comply with the terms, standards and 
procedures contemplated by this Administrative DA and its accompanying exhibits with respect 
to the required development approvals. 
V. To the extent applicable under SB 26, t he PC Junction Property and the Richins 
Parcel are zoned consistent with SB 26 and Subsection (8). The uses and densities sought on the 
P3 Project and Residential Project are consistent with the State Imposed Entitlement. 
W. According to a commissioned traffic study, which has been subject to an 
independent peer review, the additional mixed uses  and densities within the State Imposed 
Entitlement will result in less traffic impacts at full buildout than those currently approved uses 
within the Original DA at full buildout.  Hence, both the P3 Project and Residential Project will 
have less intense uses.   
X. The County finds that the P3 Project and Residential Project are compliant with the 
Kimball Junction Neighborhood Plan. 
Y. The required public hearing for this administrative approval was held by the County 
Manager on _______, 2025.  
 
DEFINITIONS 
“Allowed Uses” means the allowed uses provided for in Sections [1.5 and 2.5] herein and 
in the P3 Project Master Plan attached as Exhibit [A-2] and the Residential Project Master Plan 
attached as Exhibit [B-2]. 
“Amendment” has the meaning set forth in Section [3.6]. 
“Amenity Package” means the public spaces, facilities, and other amenities that Developer 
will buildout in phases as part of the development of the P3 Project and the Residential Project as 
more particularly described in Sections [4.3 and 4.4] below and Exhibit E. The Amenity Package 
also includes the Area Transportation, Traffic, and Transit Solution Financing contemplated in 
Section [4.4.6] below. Additional amenities may be added if deemed appropriate by Developer 
and approved by the County. 
“Apartment Unit” means a Residential Unit that is a self -contained housing unit that is 
designated as a multifamily dwelling unit under the Code. 
76
 
Page 6 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
“Approved Deed Restriction ” means the form of County -approved deed restriction to 
demonstrate compliance with the Workforce Housing Units regulations required by this 
Administrative DA. 
“Architectural Design Standards” means those requirements governing the architectural 
design of the structures and development of other improvements within the P3 Project and the 
Residential Project as provided in Section [5.6] herein and attached hereto as  Exhibit [A-4] and 
Exhibit [B -4]. No application for any Project Area, parcel or lot will be processed until the 
Architectural Design Standards have been approved. 
“Area Median Income ” or “ AMI” means those the Summit County median income as 
determined annually by the Department of Housing and Urban Development.  
“Building Permit ” means a permit issued by the County, in its regulatory capacity, 
pursuant to the requirements of the Land Use Laws, including lawfully adopted provisions of the 
Uniform and International Building Codes and related building codes as applicable in the 
Snyderville Basin Planning District. 
“Code” means the Snyderville Basin Development Code in effect as of the Effective Date 
(adopted December 2004 (as amended) and codified in the Summit County Code as Title 10). All 
references to sections of the Code shall mean those relevant sections within the codified Code.  
“Commercial Development” means development of non -residential uses, including but 
not limited to uses involving the act of selling goods or providing services.  
“Community Development Director ” means the Summit County Community 
Development Director.  
“Completion of Development” has the meaning set forth in Section [7.3.1]. 
“Condominium Plat” means a condominium plat as described and contemplated by Utah 
Code §57-8-101, et seq.  
“Condominium Unit” means a Residential Unit, Commercial Development unit, or other 
condominium unit, together with the undivided interest in the common areas and facilities 
appertaining to that unit, within a Condominium Plat.  
“Construction Plan” means the maps or drawings accompanying a final Subdivision Plat 
or Final Site Plan and showing the specific location and design of improvements to be installed on 
the site of the P3 Project or Residential Project in accordance with the conditions of app roval of 
the Final Site Plan or Subdivision Plat. 
“County” means Summit County, a political subdivision of the State of Utah.  
“County Council” means the Summit County Council, acting in its capacity as the “land 
use appeal authority.” 
“County’s Future Laws” has the meaning set forth in Section [3.2.2] below. 
 
77
 
Page 7 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
“County Manager” means the chief executive officer of Summit County  in his capacity 
as the administrative land use authority. 
“Defaulting Party” has the meaning set forth in Section [7.2.2.1] below. 
“Design Review Committee ” means a committee formed in accordance with the P3 
Declaration or the Residential Declaration to review development applications for compliance with 
the appropriate Declarations. 
“Developer” means Park City Junction, LLC, a Utah limited liability company, its affiliate 
entities, and its successors, assignees, or transferees. 
“Development Improvements Agreement” or “DIA” has the meaning set forth in Section 
[5.8] below.  
“Development Standards” means the administrative development standards contained in 
Exhibit [D] (Height Standards), the Architectural Design Standards in Exhibit [A-4] and Exhibit 
[B-4], and Chapter 4 of the Code (Standards for Approval of Development Permits) , as may be 
modified as a form of mitigation to any development impediment to the P3 Project and Residential 
Project. 
 “Effective Date” means the effective date of this Administrative DA.  No ordinance or 
legislative action is required. 
“Escrow Agent ” means First American Title Insurance Company, Inc., a Nebraska 
corporation, 215 South State, Suite 280, Salt Lake City. Utah 84111 (attention Carol Pauli; 
telephone (801) 578-8807; cell (801) 631-3219; email cpauli@firstam.com). 
“Event of Default” has the meaning set forth in Section [7.2.1]. 
“Final Site Plan ” means any Final Site Plan establishing detailed development layout, 
architectural, landscaping, lighting, and other development details for the P3 Project or a Project 
Area within the Residential Project, the process for which is established in this Administrative DA. 
A site plan is a development plan of one or more parcels or lots designated for the construction of 
all Allowed Uses, Public Facilities and any other facilities or other similar structures constructed 
on the PC Junction Property, Richins Parcel, PCTC-401-AM-X, or of benefit to the P3 Project or 
the Residential Project and allowed by this Administrative DA.  
 
“Fractional Ownership” means a Residential Unit which is owned by a limited liability 
company, corporation, partnership, or other joint ownership structure in which unrelated persons 
or entities sell, purchase or otherwise for consideration create or acquire any divided proper ty 
interest including co-ownership or fractional or divided estates, shares, or membership which are 
subject to, or subsequently bound by any agreement limiting interest holders’ or their designees’ 
right or functional ability to occup y or use the property to their respective interests or any other 
agreement which limits interest holders’ or their designees’ use of the Residential Unit to fractional 
reservations through stay limitations of any duration. This definition shall not include  non-
commercial family, partnerships, associations, or trusts with divided interests or agreements in 
78
 
Page 8 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
which the real estate is held and transferred within the family, partnership, association, or trust as 
opposed to sold on the free market for commercial purposes. 
“General Plan ” means the Snyderville Basin General Plan of the County, adopted 
December 2004, and amended in 2019 and as otherwise amended as of the Effective Date. 
“Gross Floor Area” or “GFA” means the sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several 
stories of the building measured from the interior face of exterior wall to interior face of exterior 
wall or from the centerline of party walls. Included shall be any basement floor, interior 
mezzanines, elevator shafts, and stairwells. The GFA is measured in square feet. 
 
“Height Standards” means the maximum height of buildings in each building, parcel or 
lot within the P3 Project and the Residential Project as shown on and described on Exhibit [D] 
and as a form of mitigation to any development impediment to the P3 Project and Residential 
Project.  
“Housing and Transit Reinvestment Zone ” or “ HTRZ” has the meaning set forth in 
Section [4.4.6] below. 
“HVT” has the meaning set forth in Recital J.  
“Indemnified Claim” has the meaning set forth in Section [8.3.1] below. 
“Joint Venture Agreement ” means the public -private partnership agreement to be 
negotiated in good faith and entered into among the County, Developer, and HVT pursuant to 
Section [5.13] and which sets forth the conditions and terms governing the relationship between 
the parties as  to the public -private partnership with respect to the P3 Project, including the 
development of the P3 Podium Area. Such agreement will provide for the division of 
responsibilities and monetary contributions with respect to the demolition of the Richins Building 
and Kimball Junction Transit Center, and the construction of the Parking Structure, Buildings A -
D, the County’s Workforce Housing Units (Section 4.4.2.3), the Public Plaza, the Amphitheater 
and Common Green, the Pedestrian Bridge, and the Olympic View Park, and the other applicable 
terms set forth in this Administrative DA, which terms are instructive to the negotiation and 
agreement of the parties to be self -contained in the Joint Venture Agreement. Except as more 
specifically set forth in this Administrative DA with respect to the County Workforce Housing 
Units, the Joint Venture Agreement shall provide that Developer shall receive as compensation for 
all developer services provided thereunder a market-based developer fee, which shall be made part 
of the costs of the improvements and included in the budgets. The Joint Venture Agreement shall 
contain terms related to default and delay, but with minimum terms set forth in Section [7.2.2.6] 
below. The Joint Venture Agreement shall further contain commercially reasonable terms related 
to, and allowing for, the funding, financing, and development of improvements of the P3 Podium 
Area.  
“Land Use Laws ” comprise all federal, state and local laws, ordinances, policies, 
standards, guidelines, directives, procedures, regulations, and processing fee schedules of the 
County governing the use and development of real property within Summit County, Utah, 
79
 
Page 9 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
including without limitation, Title 10 of the Code and the County Land Use Development and 
Management Act, Utah Code, Title 17, Chapter 27a, in effect as of the Effective Date. 
“Living Floor Area” or “LFA” means the sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several 
stories of the building measured from the interior face of exterior wall to interior face of exterior 
wall or from the centerline of party walls to measure living areas of residential buildings. Included 
shall be all rooms that are accessible exclusively from within the living quarters of a Residential 
Unit, such as the kitchen, living room, bathroom(s), den, b edrooms, closet(s), storage areas, and 
stairways interior to the Residential Unit. Excluded from LFA are common areas and facilities, 
such as corridors, stairways exterior to Residential Units, lobbies, elevators, equipment rooms, 
garages, storage areas not accessible from living quarters, game rooms, fitness rooms,  etc. The 
measurement of GFA shall not be more than one hundred ten percent (110%) of LFA for and 
applied to vested residential buildings of Developer in the entire Residential Project and P3 Project. 
The LFA is measured in square feet. 
“Market Rate Units ” are Residential Units which may be rented, leased, or sold at the 
prevailing market rate, and used as primary or secondary residences. 
“Neighborhood Plan” means the provisions of the 2019 Snyderville Basin General Plan 
Amendment specific to the Kimball Junction Neighborhood adopted by Summit County on 
June 15, 2019. 
“P3 Declaration” has the meaning set forth in Section [4.1.1.1] below. 
“P3 Master Association” has the meaning set forth in Sections [4.1.1.1]. 
“P3 Project” has the meaning set forth in Recital L and is limited to development on a 
portion of the PC Junction Property, the Richins Parcel, and a portion of PCTC -401-AM-X as 
described in Exhibit [A-1].  Any time the term the “P3 Project” is used in this Administrative DA 
it refers only to rights and obligations with respect to those portions of the PC Junction Property, 
PCTC-401-AM-X or the Richins Parcel described in Exhibit [A -1], and not any rights or 
obligations with respect any other portion of the Research Park Property.  
“P3 Project Master Plan” means the illustrations attached as Exhibit [A-2] that generally 
depicts and describes the parcels, Allowed Uses, Vested Densities, volumetrics, elevations, 
parking and structured parking, pedestrian paths and walkways, parks, gardens, and public areas, 
and other configuration and development details for the P3 Project.  The P3 Project Master Plan is 
a representative potential layout of location, size, and uses approved in this Administrative DA.   
“PC Junction Property” means approximately 50.88 acres of land and appurtenant real 
property rights located in Summit County, Utah, the legal description of which land is set forth in 
Recital F. 
 “Planning Commission” means the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission, who serves 
as a recommending body to the County Manager. 
“Project Area(s)” means a subset of the Residential Project to be developed upon one or 
more parcels. 
80
 
Page 10 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
“Public Facilities ” means the arterial and access roads which have been or will be 
dedicated to the County as public roads, and the other public infrastructure or public service 
facilities serving the P3 Project or Residential Project. 
“Residential Declaration” has the meaning set forth in Section [4.1.1.2] below. 
“Residential Master Association” has the meaning set forth in Sections [4.1.1.2]. 
“Residential Project” has the meaning set forth in Recital M and is limited to development 
on a portion of the PC Junction Property as described in Exhibit [B -1]. Any time the term 
“Residential Project” is used in this Administrative DA, it refers only to rights and obligations 
with respect to those portions of the PC Junction Property described in Exhibit [B-1] and not any 
rights or obligations with respect any other portion of the Research Park Property.  
“Residential Project Master Plan” means the illustrations attached as Exhibit [B-2] that 
generally depicts and describes the parcels, Allowed Uses, Vested Densities, volumetrics, 
elevations, parking and structured parking, pedestrian paths and walkways, parks, gardens, and 
public areas, and other configuration and development details for  the Residential Project.  The 
Residential Project Master Plan is a representative potential layout of location, size, and uses 
approved in this Administrative DA.   
“Residential Unit(s)” means a dwelling unit that may be rented and/or sold. Residential 
Units in the Residential Project are comprised of Market Rate Units and Workforce Housing Units.  
Residential Units in the P3 Project are comprised of Workforce Housing Units.  Residential Unit(s) 
may refer to Condominium Unit(s). All Residential Units shall be prohibited from being Short -
term Rentals, and a plat note with the prohibition shall be included on every subdivision plat which 
includes a Residential Unit. 
“Richins Parcel” means Summit County Tax Parcel No. SCPS-1-X. 
“Senior Living Facility ” means a facility licensed under the authority of the Utah 
Department of Health and Human Services, also described as “assisted living,” “rest home,” or 
“convalescent home,” other than a hospital, in which persons are lodged and furnished with care 
rather than diagnoses and treatment. Additionally, a Senior Living Facility may include (a) a 
facility licensed under the authority of the Utah Department of Health and Human Services for a 
memory care unit, or (b) unlicensed independent living units. 
“Short-term Rental” means the lease of a Residential Unit for a period of less than ninety 
(90) days.  
“Sketch Plan” means a sketch preparatory to an application for Final Site Plan review and 
consideration by the County. The Sketch Plan is intended to contain sufficient information, in 
graphic and text form, to adequately describe the applicant’s intentions with regar d to site layout 
and compliance with this Administrative DA. The requirements of the Sketch Plan are set forth in 
the Code. 
“Staff” means the planning staff of Summit County, State of Utah. 
81
 
Page 11 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
“Subdivision Plat(s) ” means a final subdivision plat as described and contemplated in 
Chapter 3 of the Code, including Condominium Plats.  
“Substantial Amendment” has the meaning set forth in Section [3.7.1]. 
“Term” has the meaning set forth in Section [3.3]. 
“Townhome” means a single family attached dwelling unit under the Code. 
“Traffic Mitigation Measures” means the traffic mitigation measures that Developer will 
complete in phases as part of the development of the P3 Project and the Residential Project as more 
particularly described in Section [4.3.11] and more particularly described in Exhibit C. 
“Transit Center” means the transit facilities which have been or will be constructed by 
HVT within the P3 Project, and depicted on the P3 Project Master Plan, attached as Exhibit [A-
2].  
“UDOT Project” means, as of the Effective Date, the Utah Department of Transportation’s 
SR 224 Kimball Junction Interchange Project, Alternative C, as described in that certain Final 
Alternatives Development and Screening Report – Kimball Junction Environmental Impact 
Statement, dated August 28, 2024, and published September 3, 2024, as referred to, administered, 
and refined by UDOT from time to time. 
“Vested Densities” means the density of Residential Units and Commercial Development 
square footage vested by this Administrative DA for the P3 Project and the Residential Project and 
referenced in Sections [1.7 and 2.7] herein. Notwithstanding anything in this Administrative DA 
to the contrary, Gross or Living Floor Area(s) stated in this Administrative DA with respect to the 
Vested Densities may vary by up to five percent (5%) from those stated in this Administrative DA, 
including Sections [1.7 and 2.7], pursuant to a Final Site Plan, Subdivision Plat, or Condominium 
Plat approval, without the requirement of an Amendment.  Any transferring of more than five 
percent (5%) of the stated Gross or Living Floor Area(s) of Vested Densities within the P3 Areas, 
shall be approved pursuant to an Amendment. 
“Workforce Housing Units” means those Residential Units described in Sections [4.4.2.3 
– 4.4.2.5] below which are deed restricted and consist only of primary residences of the tenant 
thereof which are to be rented or leased, but not sold individually.  All Workforce Housing Units  
shall be subject to an Approved Deed Restriction as required by this Administrative DA.  In no 
case shall a Workforce Housing Unit be used as a Short-term Rental or for purposes of Fractional 
Ownership. 
NOW THEREFORE SUMMIT COUNTY AND DEVELOPER HEREBY AGREE 
AS FOLLOWS: 
82
 
Page 12 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
SECTION 1 
APPROVED USE, DENSITY, GENERAL CONFIGURATION AND DEVELOPMENT 
STANDARDS AFFECTING THE P3 PROJECT 
1.1 Legal Description of P3 Project; Effect of Original DA. The legal description of 
the real property within the P3 Project is attached hereto as Exhibit [A-1]. No other property may 
be added to the legal description of the P3 Project for purposes of this Administrative DA, except 
by written amendment. The properties upon which the Visitors Center Building and Skullcandy 
Building are located (except as to that portion of the Skullcandy Building property that becomes 
part of the P3 Project), and any other real property encompassed within the Research Park 
Property, excluding the PC Junction Property, shall remain subject to the Original DA, which 
remains in full force and effect as applied to such properties.  The State Imposed Entitlement and 
this Administrative DA supersedes in its entirety the Original DA as applied to the PC Junction 
Property and portions of PCTC-401-AM-X, and therefore as to those properties, the Original DA 
is terminated and of no further force or effect.  Likewise, the State Imposed Entitlement and this 
Administrative DA supersedes in its entirety any previous development approvals pertaining to 
the Richins Parcel, and therefore as to the Richins Parcel, the prior development approvals are of 
no further force or effect. 
1.2 General Description of the P3 Project . The P3 Project covered by this 
Administrative DA consists of approximately 20 acres of land located generally nearby and to the 
south of the existing commercial development within the Kimball Junction Area and west of SR 
224. The P3 Project is intended to implement elements of the Kimball Junction Neighborhood Plan 
and anticipates the demolition of the Richins Building and the Kimball Junction Transit Center; 
the re-location of the Summit County Library to the Skullcan dy Building; the development of a 
new transit center and structured parking; a public park and amphitheater; and a public town center 
plaza surrounded by mixed uses, including Workforce Housing and a Senior Living Facility, with 
a pedestrian bridge connection to the east side of SR 224.  The P3 Project incorporates uses and 
densities of the type allowed by Sections [1.5] and [1.7], and complies with the General Plan and 
the Kimball Junction Neighborhood Plan. 
1.3 Development Configuration of the P3 Project. 
1.3.1 P3 Project Master Plan . Subject to the more specific terms of this 
Administrative DA, the development configuration of the P3 Project shall be consistent with and 
subject to the P3 Project Master Plan and designations that are shown generally in Exhibit [A-2] 
and the P3 Project Massing Parameters, as shown on Exhibit [A-3].  
1.3.2 Development Parcels/Lots and Roads . The P3 Project Master Plan 
reflects the proposed general location and configuration of certain uses and project configurations 
and the major access and circulation roads serving the P3 Project. The exact locations and legal 
descriptions for individual development parcels/lots, building envelopes, and infrastructure will be 
provided in connection with the application and approval of a P 3 Project  Subdivision Plat, P3  
Project Condominium Plat, and individual Final Site Plans, all of which shall be consistent with the 
P3 Project Master Plan and the terms of this Administrative DA.   
83
 
Page 13 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
1.4 Configuration. This Administrative DA shall, subject to the conditions and 
requirements of this Administrative DA, vest in the manner and to the extent provided in Section 
[3.2] with respect to the P3 Project as to each of the following: 
1.4.1 Allowed Uses, Conditional Uses, and Vested Densities, pursuant to 
Sections [1.5] and [1.7] of this Administrative DA.  
1.4.2 Configuration and massing, which are generally shown in the P3 Project 
Master Plan and P3 Project Massing Parameters, attached as Exhibit [A-2] and Exhibit [A-3], and 
permitted by other provisions of this Administrative DA including, without limitation, the density 
or intensity of development allowed within the development envelope created within a parcel or lot 
consistent with any height limitations, public plaza requirements or other Development Standards.  
1.4.3 Architectural Design Standards, which shall be approved in accordance 
with Section [5.6]. 
1.4.4 Development Standards, environmental and sustainability criteria as set 
forth in Section [4.4.5] and Exhibit [E] , water, sewer, fire protection compliant with lawfully 
adopted International Fire Code (including special standards as may be needed to protect parking 
structures in mixed-use structures), parking, transit, transportation and traffic mitigations (Exhibit 
[C]), utilities, snow removal, parks, trails, landscaping, lighting, road placements and designs 
(including the size of the road), road grades, road curbs, cuts and connections, and other 
development requirements and improvements pursuant to Utah Code, the Land Use Laws, Height 
Standards (Exhibit [A-3]; Exhibit [D]), and Architectural Design Standards (Exhibit [A-4]). 
1.4.5 Subdivision, site plan, and other approval processes, pursuant to Section 
[5.5] through [5.9] and Chapter 3 of the Code. 
1.4.6 Height limitations and methods of calculation of height pursuant to 
Section [1.7] and Exhibit [D]. 
1.4.7 Workforce and Moderate -Income Housing Provisions pursuant to 
Section [4.4.2] of this Administrative DA. 
1.4.8 Development Improvement requirements of the Code. 
1.5 Uses. 
            1.5.1 Allowed and Low Impact Uses.  All Allowed and Low Impact Uses are as 
defined in Section 10-11-1 of the Code, as of the Effective Date.  Allowed and Low Impact Uses, 
consistent with the State Imposed Entitlement, are set forth in the table below:  
ALLOWED USE LOW IMPACT USE 
Dwelling Unit, multi-family Healthcare Facilities and Clinics 
Dwelling Unit, single family attached Offices, medical and dental 
84
 
Page 14 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
Town Center Plaza Mobile Food Court 
Parking Structure (Parking Lot) Nursing Home, including an Assisted or Senior Living  
Facility 
Offices, general Public Library (existing use) 
Offices, intensive Transit Center (existing use) 
Public Facilities Cultural Center, non-profit 
Trails, neighborhood Brewpub (produces beer and sells at least 25% of the 
production on site, subject to all applicable state and 
local licensing requirements) 
Trails, communitywide  
Offices, moderate  
Recreation and Athletic Facilities, 
commercial 
 
Childcare, 16 or more children  
Art Space with limited public 
performance, inclusive of galleries  and 
community education classroom space 
 
Recreation, public  
Resort Lifts, new  
Resort Lifts, replacement  
Outdoor Display of Merchandise, on 
premises 
 
Personal Services  
Restaurant, full service  
Retail Sales, food  
Retail Sales, general  
Retail Sales, wholesale  
85
 
Page 15 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
Higher Education  
Dwelling Unit, live/work (P3 Areas K 
and M (set forth on Figure 1.7 below))  
 
 
1.5.2 Prohibited Uses.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the following uses are 
expressly prohibited: Adult/Sex Oriented Facilities and Businesses; Automotive Sales; and 
Cemetery. In addition, a “retail tobacco specialty business” (as defined in Utah Code §17 -50-
333(1)(h)), is prohibited. Uses not otherwise allowed in Sections [1.5.1 - 1.5.2] are prohibited.  
1.6 Approval of Final Site Plans; Subdivision Plats; Low Impact Permits . 
Individual building envelopes for buildings and structures within a parcel or lot shall be approved 
pursuant to a Final Site Plan, a Subdivision Plat, Condominium Plat, or a Low Impact Permit (as 
defined in the Code). Sections [5.5], [5.7], and [5.8] of this Administrative DA set forth a process 
for approval of specific site plans, subdivision plats, and low impact use permits within the P3 
Project.   
1.7 Vested Densities.  Densities, consistent with the State Imposed Entitlement, shall 
vest in accordance with the table below: 
P3 
Area* 
Type Owner Units Building 
Description 
LFA 
(Developer) 
LFA 
(County/HVT) 
A Retail Developer  Plaza ground 
floor Retail 
10,500 sf  
A Housing County 70 Ground floor 
and level 2, 3, 
and 4 
Workforce 
Housing 
 68,600 sf 
B Retail Developer  Plaza ground 
floor Retail 
13,000 sf  
B Office Developer  Ground floor 
and level 2 and 
3 Office 
56,000 sf  
C Retail Developer  Stand alone 
Restaurant 
5,000 sf  
D Retail Developer  Plaza ground 
floor Retail 
30,000 sf  
86
 
Page 16 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
D Housing County 90 Ground floor 
and level 2, 3 
and 4 
Workforce 
Housing 
 84,500 sf 
E Transit HVT  Transit 
ticketing and 
service 
building 
 12,000 sf 
F Office Various  Existing 
Visitors Center 
Building 
35,000 sf  
G Medical Developer  Medical 
Facility 
80,000 sf  
H Civic County  Potential 
future civic or 
non-profit use 
  
I Civic County  Existing Skull 
candy Building 
 47,000 sf 
J Retail/Office Developer  General Office 
and ground 
floor Retail 
18,000 sf  
K TBD Developer   [density 
can be 
transferred 
from 
another P3 
Area] 
 
L Senior Care Developer  Senior Living 
and Memory 
Care Facility 
125,000 sf  
M TBD Developer   10,000 sf  
N Housing Developer 65 Workforce 
Housing 
63,700 sf  
Totals   225  446,200 sf 212,100 sf 
 
87
 
Page 17 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
*Figure 1.7: “P3 Areas” of the P3 Project are generally designated in Figure 1.7 below. 
Building concepts in Figure 1.7 are conceptual only and may vary in accordance with 
approved Subdivision Plats or Final Site Plans under this Administrative DA.  
 
 
1.8 Building Permit Required. Prior to the commencement of development activity 
on any lot or parcel designated on a Final Site Plan, Condominium Plat, Subdivision Plat, or Low 
Impact Permit, or before the commencement of construction on any structure authorized in this 
Administrative DA, a Building Permit must be obtained from the County in accordance with all 
applicable requirements of the Code. Notwithstanding the foregoing, as provided in Sections [4.3] 
and [5.4], Developer or County may apply for, and if c ompliant with the Code, the Staff will 
reasonably approve, one or more development permits allowing for grading and the installation 
and development of roads, utilities, and other “horizontal” improvements within the P3 Project 
prior to the issuance of a B uilding Permit. Subject to the provisions of this Administrative DA, 
such action to install infrastructure in advance of a Building Permit shall be at Developer’s sole 
risk. 
 
SECTION 2 
APPROVED USE, DENSITY, GENERAL CONFIGURATION AND DEVELOPMENT 
STANDARDS AFFECTING THE RESIDENTIAL PROJECT 
2.1 Legal Description of Residential Project; Effect of Original DA . The legal 
description of the property within the Residential Project is attached hereto as Exhibit [B-1]. No 
88
 
Page 18 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
other property may be added to the legal description of the Residential Project for purposes of this 
Administrative DA, except by written amendment. The property upon which the Visitors Center 
Building and Skullcandy Building (except as to those portions of the Skullcandy Building property 
(PCTC-401-AM-X) that becomes part of the P3 Project) are located, and any other real property 
encompassed within the Research Park Property, excluding the PC Junction Property, portions of 
PCTC-401-AM-X and the Richins Parcel, shall remain subject to the Original DA, which remains 
in full force and effect  as applied to such properties .  The State Imposed Entitlement  and this 
Administrative DA supersedes in its entirety the Original DA as to the PC Junction Property and 
portions of PCTC-401-AM-X, and therefore as to those properties, the Original DA is terminated 
and of no further force or effect.  Likewise, the State Imposed Entitlement and this Administrative 
DA supersedes in its entirety any previous development approvals pertaining to the Richins Parcel, 
and therefore as to the Richins Parcel, the prior development approvals are of no further force or 
effect. 
2.2 General Description of the Residential Project. The Residential Project covered 
by this Administrative DA consists of approximately 39 acres of land located generally nearby and 
to the south of the existing commercial development within the Kimball Junction Area and west 
of SR 224. The Residential Project incorporates uses and densities of the type allowed by Sections 
[2.5] and [2.7], and complies with the General Plan and the Kimball Junction Neighborhood Plan. 
2.3 Development Configuration of the Residential Project. 
2.3.1 Residential Project Master Plan . The conceptual development 
configuration of the Residential Project is set forth in the Residential Project Master Plan and 
designations that are shown as a potential representation in Exhibit [B -2] and the Residential 
Project Massing Parameters, as shown on Exhibit [B-3].   
2.3.2 Development Parcels/Lots and Roads . The Residential Project Master 
Plan reflects the proposed general location and configuration of certain uses and project 
configurations and the major access and circulation roads serving the Residential Project. The 
exact locations and legal descriptions  for the parcels and lots are not required to be provided in 
connection with the approval of this Administrative DA. The exact locations and legal descriptions 
for specific parcels and lots shall be specified initially by Developer at the time Developer proposes 
the approval of a Subdivision Plat or Final Site Plan. All such specific legal descriptions are subject 
to the review process set forth in this Administrative DA and the Code. However, all approvals 
shall be consistent with the terms of this Administrative DA. Developer may propose a parcel 
consisting of more than one building as a part of a single site plan process and thereafter seek 
Building Permits with respect to such buildings within the parcel on a phased basis. 
2.3.3 Residential Project Master Plan; Phasing . Developer shall develop the 
Residential Project consistent with the massing set forth on the Residential Project Massing 
Parameters, as shown on Exhibit [B-3], and the Height Standards. The Residential Project Master 
Plan is conceptual in nature and sets forth only a conceptual layout and overall intensity for the 
Residential Project, and Developer may reconfigure or modify the Residential Project’s layout, 
roadways, building location, intensity, number of bui ldings, and uses depicted in the Residential 
Project Master Plan. The location and size of individual development parcels shall be determined 
at the time specific parcels are proposed for platting and development.  Developer is entitled to 
89
 
Page 19 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
establish the initial location and size of parcels, as well as the product type and vested Residential 
Units being used as part of the Subdivision Plat or Final Site Plan application. Modifications or 
adjustments to that application including the parcel size, product type, and vested Residential Units 
may be made up to the time of final approval. 
2.3.4 General Configuration of the Residential Project . The Residential 
Project is entitled to be developed into the uses and densities as are generally described in Sections 
[2.5] and [2.7] of this Administrative DA and, subject to Section [2.3.3], as are consistent with the 
Residential Project Master Plan. The Residential Project will be developed in parcels, each of 
which may consist of one or more specific real estate products addressing one or more segments 
of the real estate market of Allowed Uses, which development on such parcel(s) shall be referred 
to as a “ Project Area.” This Administrative DA may include general descriptions of the uses 
contemplated for the various Project Areas, references to specific types of real estate products and 
suggested locations as shown on Exhibit [B -2]. Unless expressly set forth elsewhere in this 
Administrative DA, any such descriptions or references shall not limit the description or nature of 
any Project Area that may be proposed for an approved parcel and shall not limit the particular 
mix of real estate products that can be included within a Project Area consistent with the Allowed 
Uses and Vested Densities. 
2.4 Configuration. This Administrative DA shall, subject to the conditions and 
requirements of this Administrative DA, vest in the manner and to the extent provided in Section 
[3.2] with respect to the Residential Project as to each of the following: 
2.4.1 Allowed Uses and Vested Densities, pursuant to Sections [2.5] and [2.7] of 
this Administrative DA.  
2.4.2 Configuration and massing, which are generally shown in the Residential 
Project Master Plan and Residential Project Massing Parameters, attached as Exhibit [B-2] and 
Exhibit [B-3], and permitted by other provisions of this Administrative DA including, without 
limitation, the density or intensity of development allowed within the development envelope 
created within a parcel consistent with any height limitations, open space requirements or other 
Development Standards.  
2.4.3 Architectural Design Standards, which shall be approved in accordance 
with Section [5.6]. 
2.4.4 Development Standards, environmental and sustainability criteria as set 
forth in Section [4.4.5] and Exhibit [E], open space, water, sewer, fire protection compliant with 
lawfully adopted International Fire Code (including special standards as may be needed to protect 
parking structures in mixed use structures), parking, transit, transportation and traffic mitigatio ns 
(Exhibit [C]), utilities, snow removal, parks, trails, landscaping, lighting, road placements and 
designs (including the size of the ro ad), road grades, road curbs, cuts and connections, and other 
development requirements and improvements pursuant to Utah Code, the Land Use Laws, Height 
Standards (Exhibit [B-3]; Exhibit [D]), and Architectural Design Standards ([Exhibit B-4]). 
2.4.5 Subdivision, site plan, plat, and other approval processes, pursuant to 
Section [5.5] through [5.8] and Chapter 3 of the Code. 
90
 
Page 20 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
2.4.6 Height limitations and methods of calculation of height pursuant to Exhibit 
[D]. 
2.4.7 Development Improvement requirements of the Code. 
2.5 Allowed Uses .  Allowed Uses , consistent with the State Imposed Entitlement , 
include the following:  
2.5.1 Residential: Dwelling Unit, multi -family; and Dwelling Unit, single - 
family attached; Dwelling Unit, two-family or duplex.  
2.5.2 Childcare (Commercial):  Childcare center, 16 or more children; 
Childcare center, 9-16 children; Childcare center, less than nine (9) children. 
2.6 Approval of Final Site Plans; Subdivision Plats . Within each Project Area, 
parcels and individual building envelopes for buildings and structures within a parcel shall be 
approved pursuant to a Final Site Plan or Subdivision Plat. Sections [5.5] and [5.7] of this 
Administrative DA sets forth a process for approval of specific site plans and subdivisions within 
the Residential Project. 
2.7 Vested Densities.  Densities, consistent with the State Imposed Entitlement, shall 
vest in accordance with the following table, and Developer is vested with the right to develop: 
 
Residential 
Project 
     
 Housing Developer 275 Workforce 
Housing Units 
 
 Housing Developer 385 Market Rate Units  
Total   660  698,500 LFA 
 
2.8 Building Permit Required. Prior to the commencement of development activity 
on any lot or parcel designated on a Final Site Plan or Subdivision Plat, or before the 
commencement of construction on any structure authorized in this Administrative DA, a Building 
Permit must be obtained from the County in accordance with all applicable requirements of the 
Code. Notwithstanding the foregoing, as provided in Sections [4.3] and [5.4], Developer may 
apply for, and if compliant with the Code the Staff wil l reasonably approve, one or more 
development permits allowing for grading and the installation and development of roads, utilities, 
and other “horizontal” improvements within the Residential Project prior to the issuance of a 
Building Permit. Subject to the provisions of this Administrative DA, such action to install 
infrastructure in advance of a Building Permit shall be at Developer’s sole risk. 
91
 
Page 21 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
SECTION 3 
SUMMARY OF COUNTY DETERMINATIONS 
The County Manager, acting in his administrative land use authority  capacity, has made 
the following determinations with respect to the P3 Project and Residential Project, and this 
Administrative DA, including all findings as are necessary to make each of the following 
determinations: 
3.1 County Approvals Relating to the P3 Project and Residential Project. 
3.1.1 Application. Developer submitted an appropriate application for the 
approval of this Administrative DA to authorize and implement the P3 Project and 
Residential Project. 
3.1.2 Approval Process.  On ________, 2025, at a lawfully advertised public 
meeting, the Planning Commission issued a [ _________] recommendation on the 
Administrative DA to the County Manager.  Thereafter, the County Manager held a 
lawfully advertised public hearing on _________, 2025.  Following the public hearing, the 
County Manager approved the Administrative DA, which approved both the P3 Project 
and the Residential Project, at a lawfully advertised public meeting on __________, 2025, 
under the processes  and procedures set forth in the State Imposed Entitlement , the Code 
and General Plan. With respect to the terms and conditions of approval, the County 
Manager made such findings as are required as a condition to the approvals, as reflected in 
the minutes of the above referenced public meetings, and as reflected by the other 
enumerated findings herein. 
3.1.3 Compliance with Requirements . The following is an analysis of the P3 
Project’s and Residential Project’s compliance with the requirements of the State Imposed 
Entitlement, General Plan, the Kimball Junction Neighborhood Plan, and the Code that was 
utilized by the County Manager in making his final approval of the application for an 
Administrative DA. 
3.1.3.1 State Imposed Entitlement . The provisions of the State Imposed 
Entitlement are met by the P3 Project and Residential Project, as reflected in and to 
be implemented by this Administrative DA. 
3.1.3.2 Administrative Development Agreement Approval 
Requirements. The following requirements of Section 10 -3-19a of the Code are  
92
 
Page 22 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
met, which constitute all of the requirements for the approval of this Administrative 
DA: 
3.1.3.2.1 This Administrative DA has been reviewed and 
considered in accordance with the provisions of Section 10 -3-19a of the 
Code and meets all applicable requirements of that Section. 
3.1.3.2.2 This Administrative DA includes the written consent 
of each landowner whose properties are included within the boundaries of 
the P3 Project and Residential Project. 
3.1.3.2.3 The P3 Project and Residential Project as reflected in 
and conditioned by the terms and conditions of this Administrative DA, is 
in general conformity and compliance with the General Plan, the Kimball 
Junction Neighborhood Plan, any existing capital improvements programs, 
the provisions of the Code (including concurrency and infrastructure 
requirements), and all other development requirements of the County, and 
effectively protects the health, safety and general welfare of the public. 
3.1.3.2.4 Subject to the terms and conditions of this 
Administrative DA, Developer has committed to comply with all 
appropriate concurrency and infrastructure requirements of the Code, and 
all appropriate criteria and standards described in this Administrative DA. 
3.1.3.2.5 The P3 Project and Residential Project meet or 
exceed development quality and aesthetic objectives of the General Plan 
and the Code, are consistent with the goal of orderly growth in the 
Snyderville Basin, and minimize construction impacts on public 
infrastructure within the Snyderville Basin  so as not to create an 
unacceptable level of construction management impacts. 
3.1.3.2.6 The proposed development reasonably assures life 
and property within the Snyderville Basin and reasonably prevents harm to 
neighboring properties and lands, including nuisances. 
3.1.3.2.7 This Administrative DA is consistent with applicable 
zoning. 
3.1.3.2.8 The P3 Project and Residential Project are consistent 
with the findings required in Code for approval. 
3.2 Vested Rights and Reserved Legislative Powers. 
3.2.1 Vested Rights and Vested Projects . To the maximum extent permissible 
under state and federal law, and at equity, as of the Effective Date, County and Developer agree 
that this Administrative DA confirms that Developer is vested with all rights to develop the PC 
Junction Property and the Richins Parcel in accordance with the State Imposed Entitlement  and 
County’s Land Use Laws , without modification or change by the County except as specifically 
93
 
Page 23 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
provided herein . Specifically, Developer has the vested right to develop and construct the P3 
Project and Residential Project, to develop and construct specific Project Areas within the 
Residential Project, and to develop and construct necessary infrastructure and other improvements 
in accordance with the uses, densities or intensities permitted to be constructed consistent with the 
application of the other provisions of this Administrative DA and the County’s Land Use Laws. 
The Property is also vested with  access to all public roads and to connect to existing public 
infrastructure, upon the payment of generally applicable and lawful fees, which adjoin or traverse 
any portion of the PC Junction Property. Further, Developer shall have the right to have 
subdivision and other development or construction applications within the P3 Project, and for 
Project Areas within the Residential Project, processed and approved in accordance with the 
procedures and standards set forth in this Administrative DA and the County’ s Land Use Laws. 
Any such Final Subdivision Plat or Final Site Plan so approved shall be deemed vested in 
accordance with this Section. The Parties intend that the rights granted to Developer hereunder are 
contractual vested rights and include the rights t hat exist as of the Effective Date under statute, 
common law and at equity. The Parties acknowledge and agree that this Administrative DA 
provides significant and valuable rights, benefits, and interests in favor of Developer and the PC 
Junction Property, including, but not limited to, certain vested rights, development rights, 
permitted and conditional uses, potential rights for new improvements, facilities, and 
infrastructure, as well as flexible timing, sequencing, and phasing rights to facilitate the 
development of the PC Junction Property. 
3.2.2 County’s Future Laws. Nothing in this Administrative DA shall limit the 
future exercise of the police power of the County in enacting laws, ordinances, policies, standards, 
guidelines, directives, procedures and processing fee schedules of the County that are generally 
applicable to all properties in the County’s jurisdiction after the Effective Date (“County’s Future 
Laws”). Notwithstanding the retained power of the County to enact such County’s Future Laws 
under the police powers, County’s Future Laws with respect to development or use of the PC 
Junction Property, the P3 Project, or the Residential Project shall only be applied to modify the 
vested rights described in Section [3.2.1] based upon policies, facts and circumstances meeting the 
compelling, countervailing public interest exception to the vested ri ghts doctrine in the State of 
Utah (Western Land Equities, Inc. v. City of Logan, 617 P.2d 388 (Utah 1980) or successor case 
and statutory law).  Any such proposed change affecting the vested rights contemplated herein 
shall be of general application to all development activity in the Snyderville Basin; and, unless the 
County declares an emergency, Developer shall be entitled to prior written notice and an 
opportunity to be  heard with respect to the proposed change and its applicability to the P3 Project 
or Residential Project under the compelling, countervailing public policy exception to the vested 
rights doctrine.  The regulations, ordinances, policies, and plans governing the permitted uses, 
densities or intensities permitted to be constructed consisten t with the provisions of this 
Administrative DA shall be the terms and conditions of this Administrative DA, and those Land 
Use Laws in effect on the Effective Date without modification or change except as specifically 
provided in this Administrative DA. 
3.3 Duration. The term of this Administrative DA shall commence on the Effective 
Date and shall extend for a period of twenty -five (25) years thereafter unless this Administrative 
DA is earlier terminated as provided herein or modified by written amendment signed and duly 
adopted by the Parties (the “Term”). 
 
94
 
Page 24 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
3.4 Fees and Exactions. 
3.4.1 Development Application and Review Fees . Developer has paid all 
County required application and review fees for the approval of this Administrative DA and 
nothing herein shall obligate the County to pay any third -party fees, costs, and/or expenses 
incurred by Developer for the application, processing, and negotiation of this Administrative DA, 
as Developer is solely responsible therefor. No further County required fees or engineering 
expenses shall be charged to Developer for the review and approval o f this Administrative DA. 
All application and review fees for the Architectural Design Standards, development permits, 
Sketch Plans, Building Permits, Subdivision Plats and Final Site Plans for each phase of the P3 
Project or the Residential Project and each Project Area shall be paid by Developer at the time of 
application for any such approval.  
3.4.1.1 Workforce Housing Fee Waivers . The County hereby 
waives all fees, including application, review, planning, building, engineering, and permit fees, for 
approval and development of all Workforce Housing Units within the P3 Project and Residential 
Project which an applicant would otherwise be required to pay under the Code. This waiver does 
not include any applicable impact fees lawfully adopted. In the event a Project Area includes both 
Market Rate Units and Workforce Housing Units, the fees shall be pro-rated to apply only to the 
Market Rate Units. 
3.4.2 Plan Engineering Review Fees . In accordance with the Land Use Laws, 
the County shall have the right to charge and collect such standard engineering review fees for 
Final Site Plans or amended Final Site Plans, Subdivision Plats, development, or construction 
approvals for the P3 Project, the Residential Project or a Project Area as are generally applicable 
on a non­discriminatory basis at the time of application for any such approval. 
3.4.3 Other Fees.  Subject to the Workforce Housing Units fee waiver provided 
for in Section [3. 4.1.1] herein above, in accordance with the Land Use Laws, the County may 
charge other fees that are generally applicable, including but not limited to standard Building 
Permit review fees for improvements to be constructed on improved parcels. 
3.4.4 Impact Fees . The Parties agree that the P3 Project and the Residential 
Project shall be subject to all impact fees, whether contained in the Land Use Laws or the County’s 
Future Laws and including but not limited to the “Transportation Impact Fee,” which are lawfully 
adopted, imposed and collected and comply with all state requirements and federal protections 
from unlawful exactions. 
3.4.4.1 Impact Fee Credits. With the acquisition of the PC Junction 
Property, Developer also acquired the rights to a credit for 805.45 trips toward any Transportation 
Impact Fee. This credit was generated by (a) the construction of the major spine road (Tech Center 
Drive) contemplated in Section [3.2.1] of the Original DA for a total of 661.38 trip credits; and (b) 
the transfer of real property to the County contemplated in Section [3.3.1] of the Original DA for 
a total of 259.82 trip credits. Developer’s predecessor used 49.6 trip credits with the construction 
of the Visitor Center Building, and 66.15 trip credits with the construction of the Skullcandy 
Building leaving a remainder of 805.45 trip credits.  The transfer of those credits to Developer was 
approved by the County through that certain Assignment of Transportation Impact Fee Credits 
95
 
Page 25 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
dated December 6, 2018. As of the Effective Date, the impact fee credit is $1,924.38 per trip (total 
$1,549,991.87).  
3.5 Conflicts. 
3.5.1 To the extent there is any ambiguity in or conflict with the provisions of this 
Administrative DA, the more specific provision or language shall take precedence over more 
general provisions or language. 
3.5.2 The County has reviewed the Code, General Plan, the Kimball Junction 
Neighborhood Plan, and the Original DA, and has determined that Developer has substantially 
complied with the provisions thereof and hereby finds that the P3 Project and the Residentia l 
Project are consistent with the purpose and intent of the relevant provisions of the State Imposed 
Entitlement, Snyderville Basin Development Code, the Kimball Junction Neighborhood Plan, and 
the General Plan. The Parties further agree that the omissi on of a limitation or restriction herein 
shall not relieve Developer of the necessity of complying with all applicable Land Use Laws not 
in conflict with the provisions of the State Imposed Entitlement and this Administrative DA, along 
with all applicable state and federal laws. 
3.6 Amendment. 
3.6.1 Unless otherwise provided by Land Use Laws or applicable state or federal 
law, any amendment or modification t o this Administrative DA (“Amendment”) shall be 
administratively approved and executed by the County Manager. Amendments shall be reflected 
in a writing approved by the County Manager and the Developer, which shall be recorded with the 
Recorder’s Office.  
3.6.2 Effect of Amendment . Any Amendment to this Administrative DA shall 
be operative only as to those specific portions of this Administrative DA expressly subject to the 
Amendment, with all other terms and conditions remaining in full force and effect without 
interruption. 
3.7 P3 Project Conveyances of Ownership.   
3.7.1 Escrow and Escrow Agent.  The transactions contemplated in this Section 
3.7 shall be escrowed (the “ Escrow”), closed and settled at the offices of First American Title 
Insurance Company, Inc., a Nebraska corporation, 215 South State, Suite 280, Salt Lake City, Utah 
84111 (the “ Escrow Agent”) (attention Carol Pauli; telephone (801) 578 -8807; cell (801) 631 -
3219; email cpauli@firstam.com).  This Section [3. 7] of this Administrative DA, together with 
other written instructions as may be provided by the Grantor or Grantee ( defined below) to the 
Escrow Agent, shall constitute escrow instructions to the Escrow Agent.  
  3.7.1.1  If the Escrow Agent becomes aware of a dispute between 
Grantor and Grantee, the Escrow Agent shall be entitled, at the Escrow Agent’s sole and absolute 
discretion, to refrain from acting until the dispute has been resolved. 
  3.7.1.2  Grantor and Grantee agree that the Escrow Agent shall have 
no liability pursuant to this Section 3. 7 and the transactions arising hereunder other than to hold 
96
 
Page 26 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
and disburse funds and documents.  Grantor and Grantee shall jointly and severally indemnify and 
hold the Escrow Agent harmless against all claims, liability, damages, expenses, and attorney’s 
fees that the Escrow Agent may incur or sustain in connection w ith, or arising from, this Section 
3.7 or the transactions arising hereunder. 
3.7.2 Process.  The Parties recognize that the P3 Areas A, B, C, or D (set forth 
on Figure 1.7 above) of the P3 Project (such areas, the “ P3 Podium Area ”) combines multiple 
parcels under different ownership together for purposes of joint planning and development.  
Section [1.7] includes a table wherein the proposed ownership of the Vested Densities of the P3 
Podium area is referenced.  Subject to Section 3.7.3 below, including those provisions of the Joint 
Venture Agreement relative to the funding and development of the improvements of the P3 
Podium Area, after a Subdivision Plat, Final Site Plan, or Condominium Plat pertaining to specific 
Vested Densities of  the P3 Podium Area has been approved by the County pursuant to this 
Administrative DA, a Party (the “Grantee”) may demand in writing that the appropriate owner of 
the underlying real property interest (the “ Grantor”) convey to Grantee, subject only to 
“Permitted Encumbrances ” ( defined below ), fee simple interest in the real property interest 
consistent with the proposed ownership set forth in Section [1.7].   
  3.7.2.1  Within ten (10) calendar days of such written demand, 
Escrow Agent shall furnish Grantee with an up -to-date (down dated) title commitment (“ Title 
Commitment”) from the Escrow Agent pertaining to said real property and the Escrow Agent 
shall open Escrow.  Grantee shall provide any written objections to the Title Commitment to 
Grantor within thirty (30) calendar days thereafter (the “Title Objections”).  Grantee and Grantor 
shall work together in good faith and Grantor shall use commercially reasonable efforts to remove 
any Title Objections.  Within thirty (30) calendar days of the date Grantor is in receipt of the Title 
Objections, the contemplated conveyance will be closed (the “Closing”).  
  3.7.2.2  At the Closing, the Grantor and Grantee shall do the 
following: (a) the Grantor shall execute and deliver into Escrow a special warranty deed conveying 
good and marketable title to the real property to Grantee, subject to only the Permitted 
Encumbrances; (b) Grantor shall assign all site leases and non-real property interests appertaining 
specifically to the real property interest being conveyed to Grantee; (c) Grantor shall pay for and 
provide a standard owner’s title insurance policy issued by Escrow Agent in an amount equal to 
the fair market value of the real property interest being conveyed, insuring title to the real property 
in the Grantee, subject only to the Permitted Encumbrances, and the Grantee shall pay for any 
extended title coverage requested by Grantee and any title policy endorsements requested by the 
Grantee; (d) Grantor shall pay any delinquent real property taxes or assessments relating to the 
real property and Grantor and Grantee shall prorate real property taxes and assessment s for the 
year of Closing; (e) the Grantor and Grantee shall equally share in the costs of the Escrow; and (f) 
the Grantor and Grantee shall each bear their own respective legal, due diligence, and other costs, 
if any, outside of Escrow.  All other fees, c osts, or expenses not otherwise provided for in this 
Administrative DA shall be allocated to or apportioned between Grantor and Grantee by Escrow 
Agent in accordance with customary escrow practices in Summit County, Utah.  
  3.7.2.3  “Permitted Encumbrances ” mean (i) each exception 
referred to in the Title Commitment (other than monetary liens arising by, through, or under 
Grantor) after resolution, if any, of the Title Objections, (ii) the lien for current, non -delinquent 
97
 
Page 27 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
taxes and assessments, (iii) those matters which would be disclosed by an accurate survey of the 
real property interest, and (iv) any liens or other matters arising by or through acts of Grantee or 
permitted under the terms of this Administrative DA or the Joint Venture Agreement.   
3.7.3 Section Subject to Joint Venture Agreement .  The provisions of this 
Section 3.7 shall be subject in all cases to the provisions of the Joint Venture Agreement, including 
those provisions of the Joint Venture Agreement relative to the funding and development of the 
improvements of the P3 Podium Area.    
SECTION 4 
SPECIFIC PROJECT REQUIREMENTS AND AMENITIES 
4.1 Project Documents. 
4.1.1 Declarations.  
               4.1.1.1 P3 Project.  The Parties shall implement a common plan of 
private restrictions and covenants throughout the P3 Project as reflected in a Declaration of 
Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions (the “ P3 Declaration”). The P3 Declaration shall be 
adopted and applied to the entire P3 Project on or before the issuance of the first certificate of 
occupancy within the P3 Project. The P3 Declaration shall contain provisions authorizing a master 
association of owners within the P3 Project (the “P3 Master Association”) to impose assessments 
on the owners within the P3 Project for the operation, maintenance, repair, and replacement of 
common private elements within the P3 Project benefiting the owners and users of property within 
the P3 Project. The P3 Declaration shall also prohibit Short-term Rental use, non-primary property 
tax status, and Fractional Ownership of all Residential Units, consistent with the terms of this 
Administrative DA and authorize the collection of fees to offset specific cos ts of the P3 Master 
Association, including without limitation design review, construction management and road 
damage costs resulting from construction activities of property owners. The P3 Declaration shall 
be submitted to County Staff, in its administrative regulatory capacity, for review and comment, 
solely with respect to the P3 Declaration’s compliance with this Administrative DA, in connection 
with the approval of the first Final Site Plan within the P3 Project. Notwithstanding any 
inconsistent provision in this Administrative DA to the contrary, the Parties and the P3 Master 
Association shall be obligated to establish, implement and enforce the covenants, assessment 
procedures, P3 Master Association operation and maintenance requirements relating to the 
common elements of the P 3 Project and the Architectural Design Standards, and any owners of 
property within the P3 Project shall look solely to the Parties and the P3 Master Association for 
the establishment, implementation and enforcement of any such requirements.   
               4.1.1.2 Residential Project .  The Developer shall implement a 
common plan of private restrictions and covenants throughout the Residential Project as reflected 
in a Declaration of Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions (the “Residential Declaration”). The 
Residential Declaration shall be adopted and applied to the entire Residential Project on or before 
the issuance of the first certificate of occupancy within the Residential Project. The Residential 
Declaration shall contain provisions autho rizing a master association of owners within the 
Residential Project (the “Residential Master Association”) to impose assessments on the owners 
within the Residential Project for the operation, maintenance, repair, and replacement of common 
98
 
Page 28 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
private elements within the Residential Project benefiting the owners and users of property within 
the Residential Project. The Residential Declaration shall also prohibit Short -term Rental and 
Fractional Ownership of all Residential Units, consistent with the terms of this Administrative DA 
and authorize the collection of fees to offset specific costs of the Residential Master Association, 
including without limitation design review, construction management and road damage costs 
resulting from construction activities of property owners. The Residential Declaration shall be 
submitted to County Staff, in its administrative regulatory capacity, for review and comment, 
solely with respect to the P3 Declaration’s compliance with this Administrative DA, in connection 
with the approval of the first Final Site Plan within the Residential Project. Notwithstanding any 
inconsistent provision in this Administrative DA to the contrary, Developer and the Residential 
Master Association shall be obligated to establish, imple ment and enforce the covenants, 
assessment procedures, Residential Master Association operation and maintenance requirements 
relating to the private common elements of the Residential Project and the Architectural Design 
Standards, and any owners of property within the Residential Project shall look solely to Developer 
and the Residential Master Association, and not the County, for the establishment, implementation 
and enforcement of any such requirements.   
4.2 Architectural Design Standards . The development of the P3 Project and the 
Residential Project shall be consistent with those Architectural Design Standards adopted and 
approved as set forth in Section [5.6] of this Administrative DA, which provides a process for 
obtaining approval of the master Architectural Design Standards as an Amendment. Once 
approved, the Architectural Design Standards shall be inserted into this Administrative DA as 
Exhibit [A-4] for the P3 Project and Exhibit [B-4] for the Residential Project, and shall replace 
any previously adopted Architectural Design Standards under the Original DA and be binding 
upon all Parties to this Administrative DA. Architectural Design Standards for the P3 Project or 
Residential Project must be approved prior to any application for a Final Site Plan or Subdivision 
Plat. 
4.3 Essential Project Infrastructure. If not otherwise completed, Developer agrees to 
design and obtain all necessary approvals and construct the infrastructure necessary for the 
operation of the P3 Project and the Residential Project, as provided in the following subsections 
of this Section  [4.3]. All infrastructure shall be constructed to Summit County engineering and 
planning standards as set forth in the Code. 
4.3.1 Internal Roads and Secondary Access .  The spine road known as Tech 
Center Drive and connection to Overland Drive have been constructed, dedicated to, and accepted 
by Summit County in accordance with County standards and Section [3.2.1] of the Original DA. 
As set forth in Section [3.4.4.1] above, a credit of [661.38 trips] against the Transportation Impact 
Fee was granted to Developer by the County. The Parties shall share the costs of development of 
the P3 Project roads and streets in accordance with the Joint Venture Agreement; provi ded, 
however, the Joint Venture Agreement shall be consi stent with the provisions of that certain 
Easement Option Agreement dated July 15, 2024 (“Easement Option Agreement”), as evidenced 
by that certain Memorandum of Easement Option Agreement recorded July 15, 2024, as Entry No. 
01222588 in the Recorder’s Office.  
4.3.1.1 Developer shall construct or cause to be constructed any 
roads and secondary access not otherwise constructed required by Land Use Laws and which are 
99
 
Page 29 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
roughly proportional, in accordance with Land Use Laws and applicable state and federal laws, to 
the impact of development and improvement of each subsequent Final Site Plan.  
4.3.1.2 Parties agree to annex the PC Junction Property and the 
Richins Parcel into Summit County Service Area #6 within ninety (90) days  after the Effective 
Date. 
4.3.2 P3 Project Public Plaza.  The Joint Venture Agreement shall contain terms 
for Developer’s construction of a public plaza as generally set forth in the P3 Project Master Plan 
and P3 Project Massing Parameters (the “ Public Plaza ”), consistent with construction plans 
reasonably approved by Summit County, in its administrative regulatory capacity, and terms to be 
more specifically set forth in the Joint Venture Agreement; Developer’s and County’s, in its 
landowner capacity, joint development of the constr uction plans for the Public Plaza and each 
Party’s payment of fifty percent (50%) of the development costs, subject to the Developer 
Maximum; and that the Public Plaza will be owned, operated, and maintained by the P3 Master 
Association.  
4.3.3 P3 Project Parking Structure.  The Joint Venture Agreement shall contain 
terms for Developer’s construction of a parking structure, consisting of two (2) levels, maximizing 
the available parking stalls subject to setbacks, site constraints, and Development Standards, as set 
forth in the P3 Project Master Plan and P3 Project Massing Parameters (the “Parking Structure”), 
consistent with construction plans approved by the County, in its administrative regulatory 
capacity, and terms to be more specifically set forth in the Joint Venture Agreement; Developer’s 
and County’s payment of its respective pro-rata share of the Parking Structure (including, without 
limitation, demolition of the Richins Building and Kimball Junction Transit Center, grading, 
excavation, and other site preparation costs and landscaping improvements in setback areas) based 
on allocated parking stall use between the Parties in the Parking Structure and that each Party shall 
be entitled to the use of the parking stalls paid for by the respective Party; in the eve nt a Party 
requires vertical dedicated elevator services in the Parking Structure, then Party receiving such 
dedicated elevator services shall be solely responsible for the hard and soft costs of construction 
and the ongoing maintenance and repair of such dedicated elevator services; and that the Parking 
Structure will be owned by the County (with the acknowledgment that Developer’s pro-rata share 
of the Parking Structure based upon allocated parking stall use between the Parties in the Parking 
Structure, pursuant and subject to applicable law, will be subject to a privilege tax), but operated 
and maintained by the P3 Master Association or a Parking Structure operator set forth in the Joint 
Venture Agreement.  
4.3.4 P3 Project Pedestrian Bridge.  The Parties anticipate the Utah Department 
of Transportation (“ UDOT”) will construct the pedestrian bridge envisioned in the P3 Project 
Master Plan (the “ Pedestrian Bridge ”), or an alternative pedestrian SR -224 crossing as 
determined by County in its sole and absolute discretion, as part of its improvements to the UDOT 
Project.  To the extent that UDOT requires third -party funding for purposes of constructing the 
Pedestrian Bridge as a “Betterment,” the County and Developer shall each pay fifty percent (50%) 
of the costs of the Betterment, or alternative pedestrian SR-224 crossing determined by the County, 
subject to the Developer Maximum.  The Parties anticipate that the Pedestrian Bridge will be 
owned by UDOT but operated and maintained by the County.    
100
 
Page 30 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
4.3.5 P3 Project Amphitheater and Common Green; Olympic View Park; 
Open Space.    
4.3.5.1 Amphitheater and Common Green.  The Joint Venture Agreement 
shall contain terms for the construction of a park and an estimated and targeted 800-person 
capacity amphitheater (capacity dependent on ultimate design) on Summit County Tax 
Parcel No. PC TC-401-AM-X, as generally depicted in the P3 Project Master Plan and 
Exhibit F  (collectively the “ Amphitheater and Common Green ”), consistent with 
construction plans approved by Summit County, in its administrative regulatory capacity, 
and terms to be more specifically set forth in the Joint Venture Agreement. With respect to 
the Amphitheater and Common Green, the Joint Venture Agreement shall further provide 
terms for the responsibilities for development of the construction plans and construction 
(with a market-based developer fee to Developer if Developer constructs the Amphitheater 
and Common Green), construction timing, and management and operation of the 
Amphitheater and Common Green, and that each of the Parties shall pay fifty percent 
(50%) of the cos ts of development (not including land costs), subject to the Developer 
Maximum; and that the Amphitheater will be owned, operated, and maintained by the 
County.   
4.3.5.2 Olympic View Park.  The Joint Venture Agreement shall contain 
terms for Developer’s construction of the Olympic View Park on land Developer donates 
for that purpose, as conceptually set forth in the P3 Project Master Plan and Exhibit F, 
consistent with construction plans reasonably approved by Summit County and terms to be 
more specifically set forth in the Joint Venture Agreement; and that the Olympic View 
Park will be owned and operated by the County. The County shall cooperate and de liver 
reasonably required forms so that Developer may claim tax benefits for the value of the 
donated land for the Olympic View Park.  
4.3.5.3 Open Space.  Developer shall construct the remaining open space 
and parks areas as shown on the Network of Programmed Open Spaces, Exhibit F, but not 
otherwise addressed in this Section 4.3 or in the Joint Venture Agreement, consistent with 
an approved Final Site Plan or Subdivision Plat and construction plans approved by the 
County. These open spaces and parks areas shall be owned, operated a nd maintained 
pursuant to the Residential Declaration. 
4.3.5.4 Developer Maximum.  Notwithstanding anything in this 
Administrative DA to the contrary, the Developer’s share of the combined contribution 
costs of the Public Plaza, the Betterment of the Pedestrian Bridge (or alternative pedestrian 
SR-224 crossing), the Amphitheater and Common Green, and the Olympic View Park (not 
including the land value of the Olympic View Park, which will be donated without charge 
to the County subject and pursuant to Section 4.3.5.2 and the Joint Venture Agreement) 
shall be capped at and not exceed Four Million Dollars ($4,000,000.00) (the “ Developer 
Maximum”). The Joint Venture Agreement shall reflect the Developer Maximum. 
4.3.6 P3 Transit Center.  The Joint Venture Agreement shall contain terms for 
HVT’s construction of a transit center, as set forth in the P3 Project Master Plan, P3 Project 
Massing Parameters and Vested Densities (the “ Transit Center”), consistent with an approved 
101
 
Page 31 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
Final Site Plan and construction plans approved by Summit County, in its administrative regulatory 
capacity, and terms to be more specifically set forth in the Joint Venture Agreement; and that HVT 
will own, operate and maintain the Transit Center.  The Joint Venture Agreement will further 
provide that the Parties shall convey to HVT the ownership of the Transit Center parcel or lot 
(pursuant to a special warranty deed and subject only to Permitted Encumbrances (to be defined 
in the Joint Venture Agreement)) after (a) approval of the Final Site Plan , and (b) HVT provides 
evidence of its ability to finance the Transit Center improvements, and in accordance with other 
terms more specifically set forth in the Joint Venture Agreement. 
4.3.7 Intentionally Omitted.  
4.3.8 Water, Fire Flow and Public Safety . The Parties have selected Summit 
Water Distribution Company as the water service provider. Developer has the right to acquire 
water shares in Summit Water Distribution Company. Inasmuch as there is excess water shares, 
after supplying sufficient water sh ares to meet the culinary and irrigation requirements for the 
Residential Project and Developer-owned portions of the P3 Project, Developer will make excess 
water shares available, at the same price for which the water shares are available to the Developer 
to purchase, to the P3 Project, including the Amphitheater and Common Green, the Olympic View 
Park, the Transit Center, the Public Plaza and surrounding landscaping, and the One Hundred and 
Sixty (160) Workforce Housing Units to be owned by the County. The cost of any water shares 
needed for the Amphitheater and Common Green, the Olympic View Park, the Public Plaza, and 
the landscaping incorporated therein shall be deemed to be shared equally between the Developer 
and the County, subject to the Developer Maximum.  Further, the Parties shall design and obtain 
all necessary approvals for the construction and operation of water systems with sufficient fire 
flow and storage to meet the culinary, irrigation and public safe ty standards for development in 
accordance with the Land Use Laws. The Parties shall be required to comply with the Summit 
County Code of Health, as amended, in connection with the issuance of all Building Permits. 
4.3.8.1 Water Quality and Conservation Measures . Consistent 
with the sustainability requirements of Section [4.4.5] and Exhibit [E] , water conservation 
measures (including but not limited to outdoor irrigation) shall be built into the design and 
operation of the P3 Project and the Residential Project, including the use of water conserving 
fixtures, drought tolerant plant species, the minimization of irrigated area and the limited use of 
turf grass. The Parties have further agreed to infiltrate or re -infiltrate surface water as created by 
the P3 Project and the Residential Project area’s impervious surface by use of (a) permeable 
surfaces in strategic locations and bioretention; (b) sand and tree filters; (c) underground filtration 
and rain gardens; and (d) v egetated buffers and natural stormwater channels and retention areas, 
as applicable and appropriate, as part of its sustainable landscape plans and water quality and 
conservation measures. The Parties shall minimize the use of turf grasses and shall use dr ip 
irrigation systems using moisture control sensors and shall otherwise comply with the landscaping 
regulations of the Code.  
4.3.9 Other Infrastructure. In connection with or prior to the approval of the 
next Final Site Plan within the P3 Project or Residential Project, as applicable, and subject to the 
cost allocations with the P3 Project agreed to herein or in the Joint Venture Agreement, Developer 
shall have designed and obtained all necessary approvals for the construction and operation of any 
other onsite and any necessary offsite utility infrastructure with sufficient capacity to meet the 
102
 
Page 32 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
requirements of the next phase of development.  Developer shall, subject to the cost allocations 
with the P3 Project agreed to herein or in the Joint Venture Agreement, thereafter construct or 
cause to be constructed any such other utility infrastructure n ecessary in connection with the 
development and improvement of each subsequent Final Site Plan. 
4.3.10 Drainage and Flood Control . Drainage and flood control facilities or 
infrastructure not already constructed, shall be constructed by Developer, subject to the cost 
allocations with the P3 Project agreed to herein or in the Joint Venture Agreement, as a part of 
completion of other major facilities and development of the P3 Project or the Residential Project, 
if and as applicable, in accordance with the County and State Storm Water permits and 
requirements. Developer shall not be required to accommodat e additional storm water drainage 
caused by development of any adjoining lands outside of the Research Park Property or Richins 
Parcel. Major infrastructure and retention facilities, where appropriate, will be owned and 
maintained by Developer, property owners, or owner’s association who shall provide to the County 
the appropriate long -term storm water management plan upon completion. The County, in its 
regulatory capacity, shall conduct annual inspections to ensure compliance with the management 
plan.  
4.3.11 Traffic Mitigation . With the changes in Allowed Uses granted in this 
Administrative DA, the Parties have agreed to implement certain traffic control measures 
necessary to mitigate the anticipated impacts of the P3 Project and the Residential Project, and to 
generally improve the flow of traffic in the Kimball Junction Neighborhood, which measures are 
set forth in Exhibit [C] of this Administrative DA (the “Traffic Mitigation Measures”). Further, 
the Parties shall cooperate with UDOT to support and implement the UDOT Project, including, if 
necessary, dedicating de minimis portions of the PC Junction Property or the Richins Parcel for 
rights-of-way required to complete the UDOT Project, provided that the dedications will not 
reduce the Vested Densities or require the relocation of any improvements shown on either the P3 
Master Plan or Residential Master Plan.  
4.3.12 Reimbursements. To the extent that Developer is required by the County 
to construct improvements of any kind within or outside of the PC Junction Property or the Richins 
Parcel that are properly classified as “system improvements” pursuant to the Utah Impact Fees 
Act, including but not limited to oversizing of facilities, Developer and the County will enter into 
such reimbursement agreements as are necessary for Developer to be reimbursed for the costs 
associated with constructing such improvements. 
4.4 Other Project Requirements . The Parties hereby agree that the following 
additional provisions relating to the development and operation of the Original DA are also 
applicable under this Administrative DA and have been met or will be met as provided below: 
4.4.1 Land Conveyance for County Building and Transit Facilities . The 
Parties hereby stipulate that Developer or its predecessor have fully complied with the requirement 
pursuant to Section [3.3.1] of the Original DA, to convey to the County two parcels of land 
sufficient for the County’s purposes; namely, (a) a County  Office Building, which is a mirror 
image of the existing Richins Building; said parcel shall not exceed 5 acres (but may be smaller 
based on topography, layout and the application of shared parking principles); and (b) a reg ional 
bus depot/transit center/visitors center serving the Kimball Junction area not to exceed 1.5 acres 
103
 
Page 33 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
was substantially complied with.  A quitclaim deed transferring all of Lot 6 of the Park City Tech 
Center Subdivision (approximately 2.93 acres) to Summit County to site the transit center and 
office building was recorded with the Recorder’s Office on Febr uary 8, 2011, as Entry No. 
00916719.  As recited in Section [3. 4.4.1] above, the County has given Developer 259.82 trip 
credits for the value of the land donated for the transit facilities against Transportation Impact Fees 
based upon the value of the donated land not exceeding $500,000. 
4.4.2 Market Rate; Workforce Housing.  
               4.4.2.1 Moderate Income Housing Requirement Satisfied .  The 
Parties agree that the Moderate -Income Housing obligation under the Original DA was satisfied 
and remains in compliance with the terms of Section [3.3.3] of the Original DA.  
               4.4.2.2 Market Rate Units .  This Administrative DA vests 
Developer with the right to construct three hundred eighty-five (385) Market Rate Units, consistent 
with Section [2.5 and 2.7], the State Imposed Entitlement, the Residential Project Master Plan and 
Residential Project Massing Parameters.  The ratios of unit types shown in the following table are 
approximate and the final unit types will be determined by the Developer in connection with the 
approval of a Subdivision Plat.   
Type Percent 
Range 
For Sale For Rent Only 
Townhomes 25%-50% Yes Yes 
Stacked Flat Condominium Units 0%-20% Yes No 
Apartment Units 50%-70% No Yes 
 
Apartment Units may not be converted into condominiums and sold individually. 
“For Sale” Townhome and/or Condominium Units are prohibited from use as Short -term Rentals 
or for purposes of Fractional Ownership. “For Rent Only” Market Rate Units may not be used for 
Short-term Rentals. All Final Site Plans and/or Subdivision Plats for any housing project shall 
include a plat note that prohibits Short-term Rentals and Fractional Ownership.  
4.4.2.3 Workforce Housing Units (County) . The Joint Venture 
Agreement shall contain terms for the County’s ownership, and the Developer’s professional 
development services for development of, up to one hundred and sixty (16 0) “for rent only” 
Workforce Housing Units as set forth in the table below, consistent with the P3 Project Master 
Plan, the State Imposed Entitlement, and P3 Project Massing Parameters, and in accordance with 
terms to be more specifically set forth in the Joint Venture Agreement. The rati os of unit types 
shown in the following table are approximate and the final ratios of unit types will be determined 
by the County in connection with the approval of a Final Site Plan.  The Joint Venture Agreement 
will provide that the County shall pay the costs of development of the Workforce Housing Units 
and provide to Developer as compensation 30%, but not less than $1,500,000.00, of the HUD 
221(d)(4) Developer Fee; and that the Developer’s maximum liability in relation to the 
development and constructio n of the County Workforce Housing Units shall be equal to the 
Developer Fee.  All Workforce Housing Units shall be subject to an Approved Deed Restriction.   
104
 
Page 34 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
Type Number Target AMI HUD average target 
Low Moderate Units  30% to 50% 44% AMI 
 Studio units (400 sf)1    
 One bedroom (650 sf)    
 Two bedrooms (900 sf)    
 Three bedrooms (1150 sf)    
Moderate Units 160 40% to 80% 60% AMI 
 Studio units (400 sf)    
 One bedroom (650 sf)    
 Two bedrooms (900 sf)    
 Three bedrooms (1150 sf)    
 
4.4.2.4 Low-Income Workforce Housing Units (Developer). This 
Administrative DA vests Developer with the right to construct up to sixty-five (65) “for rent only” 
Low-Income Workforce Housing Units within P3 Area N (set forth on Figure 1.7 above) of the P3 
Project in accordance with HUD guidelines and consistent with the P3 Project  Master Plan, the 
State Imposed Entitlement, and P3 Project Massing Parameters. The ratios of unit types shown in 
the following table are approximate and the final ratios of unit types will be determined by the 
Developer in connection with the approval of a Final Site Plan. Developer shall construct, allocate, 
and regulate Workforce Housing Units in accordance with this Administrative DA. Developer may 
enter into a separate Workforce Housing agreement with Mountainland Community Housing Trust 
or other Summit County approved entity and/or an Approved Deed Restriction.  
Type Number Target AMI HUD average target 
Low Moderate Units 65 30%-50% 44% AMI 
 Studio units (400 sf)2    
 One bedroom (650 sf)    
 Two bedrooms (900 sf)    
 Three bedrooms (1150 sf)    
 
4.4.2.5 Workforce Housing Units (Developer) . This 
Administrative DA vests Developer with the right to construct up to two hundred seventy -five 
(275) “for rent only” Workforce Housing Units within the Residential Project as set forth in the 
table below, consistent with the Residential Project Master Plan , the State Imposed Entitlement, 
and Residential Project Massing Parameters. Developer shall construct, allocate, and regulate 
Workforce Housing Units in accordance with this Administrative DA and demonstrate compliance 
with an appropriate form of Approved Deed Restrictio n.  The ratios of unit types shown in the 
following table are approximate and the final ratios of unit types will be determined by the 
Developer in connection with the approval of a Final Site Plan.    
Type Number Target AMI HUD average target 
Low Moderate Units 155 40% to 80% 60% AMI 
 
1 Represents minimum square footage required for each unit type per Summit County Code §10 -5-4C. 
2 Represents minimum square footage required for each unit type per Summit County Code §10 -5-4C. 
105
 
Page 35 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
 Studio units (400 sf)3    
 One bedroom (650 sf)    
 Two bedrooms (900 sf)    
 Three bedrooms (1150 sf)    
Moderate Units 20 80% 80% AMI 
 Studio units (400 sf)    
 One bedroom (650 sf)    
 Two bedrooms (900 sf)    
 Three bedrooms (1150 sf)    
Attainable Units - 1004 50 100%  
 Studio units (400 sf)    
 One bedroom (650 sf)    
 Two bedrooms (900 sf)    
 Three bedrooms (1150 sf)    
Attainable Units – 1205 50 120%  
 Studio units (400 sf)    
 One bedroom (650 sf)    
 Two bedrooms (900 sf)    
 Three bedrooms (1150 sf)    
Developer may move and utilize Workforce Housing Units from a higher Target 
AMI to a lower Target AMI at its discretion.  
4.4.3 Senior Care Facility .  Developer agrees to use commercially reasonable 
efforts to develop a Senior Care Facility in P3 Area L (set forth on Figure 1.7 above) of the P3 
Project. A Senior Care Facility shall not deduct the Residential Project Vested Densities described 
in Section [2.7] but shall be included and apply toward the P3 Project Commercial Development 
Vested Densities described in Section [1.7]. If  after one year, despite Developer’s commercially 
reasonable efforts, Developer is unable to engage an operator for a Senior Care Facility in P3 Area 
L (set forth on Figure 1.7 above) of the P3 Project on terms acceptable to Developer , and after 
providing reasonable evidence to the County of Developer’s efforts to secure an operator for a 
Senior Care Facility in P3 Area L, Developer may develop a minimum of ninety (90) Residential 
Units within the PC Junction Property that are deed restricted for occupants 55 years old or older, 
in lieu of developing a Senior Care Facility, and such ninety (90) age-restricted Residential Units 
will be included and apply toward the Residential Project Vested Densities described in Section 
[2.7].  Such Residential Units are prohibited from use as Short -term Rentals or for purposes of 
Fractional Ownership. 
4.4.4 Trails and Inclusive Community Space.  
 
3 Represents minimum square footage required for each unit type per Summit County Code §10 -5-4C. 
4 Attainable Residential Units – 100% AMI – will be subject to a 30-year Approved Deed Restriction and are 
transferrable from one Residential Unit to another within Developer’s project.  
5 Attainable Residential Units – 120% AMI – will be subject to a 35-year Approved Deed Restriction and are 
transferrable from one Residential Unit to another within Developer’s project.  
106
 
Page 36 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
4.4.4.1 Trails. Developer shall construct an internal trail system 
with connections from the P3 Project and the Residential Project to the pedestrian underpass under 
SR-224 or the Pedestrian Bridge. Such trails will provide connections between the P3 Project and 
the Res idential Project and the other retail commercial facilities within the Kimball Junction 
Neighborhood. As Final Site Plans are approved, the internal trail system and connections to the 
community trail system shall be indicated on each Final Site Plan together with specific deadlines 
for installation of the trails. Such trails will be maintained by the applicable owner’s association 
to which the trails appertain.  
4.4.4.2 Inclusive Community Space . As part of the Residential 
Project, Developer shall construct (a) pedestrian and bike friendly pathways; (b) if required as part 
of the transit system, convenient access to transit, including bus shelters and bicycle stands; and 
(c) greenways, as generally shown on the Residential Master Plan. The County acknowledges that 
the open space shown on the Residential Master Plan satisfies all obligations of Developer to 
provide open space for the Residential Project.  
4.4.5 SR 224 Underpass Contribution . Pursuant to the Original DA, upon 
acquisition of the PC Junction Property, Developer also acquired the obligation to contribute 
$300,000.00 to the County (on behalf of Snyderville Basin Recreation District) toward the 
construction of a pedestrian underpa ss under SR -224 connecting the east and west sides of the 
Kimball Junction Neighborhood. The construction of the underpass was completed in 2012-2013. 
Developer’s obligation under the Original DA to contribute to the County $300,000 has been 
converted to p articipation in the Betterment of the Pedestrian Bridge, subject to the Developer 
Maximum.  
4.4.6 Sustainability. Developer shall develop under this Administrative DA 
using sustainable practices and low waste construction practices, shall provide the water 
conservation measures listed in Section [4.3. 8.1] above and shall include the measure set forth 
below and in Exhibit [E].  It is the goal of the Parties to construct sustainably -designed high-
performing buildings that will, in the long term, support the affordability of all buildings and units, 
including the Workforce Housing and Senior Living H ousing.  To achieve that goal, Developer 
shall provide the following:  
4.4.6.1 Electric vehicle charging stations shall be provided 
throughout the P3 Project and Residential Project in locations designated by the Parties and, at full 
buildout, at a ratio not less than five percent (5%) of stalls with EV charging stations and an 
additional ten percent (10%) being EV capable (electrical gear and panels) spaces unless more are 
required within the parking provisions of the Snyderville Basin Development Code. 
4.4.6.2 Implementation into the design and development of the P3 
Project and Residential Project, public spaces and infrastructure, elements selected by Developer 
and approved by the County Sustainability Director from: (a) the Utah High Performance Building 
Standard (HPBS); (b) the Enterprise Green Communities Criteria; (c) the Energy Star Certification 
for Buildings; and (d) other similar sustainable building and development best construction and 
operation practices for energy and greenhouse gas emissions in effect at the time of Final Site Plan 
approval.  
107
 
Page 37 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
4.4.6.3 Implementation of a Carbon and Electrification Plan to 
Achieve Carbon Neutrality . With each application, the Parties will work with the County 
Sustainability Director to ensure this requirement is met.  The Parties will require all residential 
buildings to enroll in and participate in the 100% Renewable Energy program offered by Rocky 
Mountain Power and educate and encourage all tenants entering into rental agreements or leases 
for residential units to use renewable energy. Developer will support the  County and Rocky 
Mountain Power with achieving their sustainability goals and the implementation of the Blue-Sky 
program and 100% Renewable Energy program, including (a) designing and constructing all 
residential building systems within the P3 Project and the Residential Project to be 100% electric 
or demonstrate carbon emission offsets to achieve carbon neutrality for non -electric systems; (b) 
participating in the 100% Renewable Energy program offered by Rocky Mountain Power at such 
time as 100% renewable  energy can be provided; and (c) developing a measurement and 
verification plan for each residential building. The plan will include predicted whole building 
energy usage, a metering plan for energy usage and data collection, with calculations to 
demonstrate that the building achieved the electrification and carbon emission offsets. Offsets may 
include renewable energy production on -site, renewable energy production off -site, or the 
purchase of or investment in renewable energy programs.  If a residential b uilding in the 
Residential Project fails to achieve the planned building emissions performance, Developer will 
offset the shortage by purchasing renewable energy blocks from Rocky Mountain Power consistent 
with the Blue Sky and Wattsmart initiatives or oth er available programs.  The Parties will report 
residential building energy performance annually to the County Sustainability Director and support 
future residential tenant participation in the Blue-Sky and 100% Renewable Energy programs.  
4.4.6.4 The Parties shall conform their construction practices to 
ensure sustainable buildings using any of the following: (a) High Reflectivity Roofing (reflecting 
radiant heat, not light) and/or green roofs; (b) Rain Screens; (c) Performance Fenestration  (low 
emissivity, low solar heat gain coefficient, low reflective glass, and low u-factor); (d) Continuous 
Air Barrier (reduces conditioned air leakage); (e) Soil Gas Mitigation (vapor retarder and slab 
ventilation); (f) additional insulation (spray foam a t rim joists, parapets, and other concealed 
spaces); (g) Heat or energy recovery Mechanical Ventilation; (h) Efficient Lighting (LED 
Fixtures) and lighting control; and (i) air curtain or rapid garage doors for multi -family parking 
garage entrances.  The Sustainability Director shall review, as part of any Final Site Plan approval 
or Building Permit, proposed sustainable building measures. 
4.4.7 Area Transportation, Traffic, and Transit Solution Financing . In 
addition to the required Traffic Mitigation Measures set forth in Section [4.3.11], the Parties agree 
that area traffic and transportation issues exist which cannot be attributed to Developer. In order 
to enhance all of the Kimball Junction Neighborhood, including the P3 Project and the Residential 
Project, the Parties will work cooper atively and in good faith toward area solutions to area 
transportation, traffic, and transit issues whic h impact the P3 Project and the Residential Project 
and the surrounding Kimball Junction Neighborhood. It is recognized that major changes to the 
Kimball Junction I-80 interchange, and State Route 224 will be made as part of the UDOT Project.  
The UDOT Project is currently on UDOT’s long range plan. In order for the County to accelerate 
the timing of the completion of the UDOT Project, UDOT will require local financial and other 
participation. Funding for an Environmental Assessment was approved during the 2021 
Legislative General Session for the Kimball Junction Interchange. The Parties believe an 
opportunity to elevate and accelerate UDOT focus on regional transportation investments, and 
108
 
Page 38 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
specifically on the UDOT Project, to meet the County’s needs is beneficial to all Parties and is a 
substantial community benefit. To help create that opportunity, Developer shall cooperate in the 
establishment of a Housing and Transit Reinvestment Zone (“HTRZ”).   
 
4.4.7.1 Housing and Transit Reinvestment Zone Act . Developer 
shall cooperate in good faith in and, if needed consent to, the creation of a HTRZ as set forth in 
Utah Code, Title 63N, Chapter 3, Part 6, and SB 26 for the purpose of enhancing the utilization of 
public transit, increasing affordable housing availability, improving air quality by the reduction of 
motor vehicle trips, and investment in public transit and transportation infrastructure in strategic 
areas. The Parties agree that they will work toget her in good faith to prepare a proposal for the 
HTRZ which meets the necessary criteria and submit the proposal to the Governor’s Office of 
Economic Opportunity (“ GOEO”) within one hundred and eighty (180) days of the Effective 
Date. The Parties shall thereafter cooperate with and provide information to the independent entity 
selected by GOEO to perform the gap analysis required by statute. The County agrees that it wil l 
be solely responsible for the cost of the gap analysis. The Parties will work in good f aith to 
complete the HTRZ application and continue cooperation through the statutory approval process. 
The County agrees that the application for the HTRZ will be structured such that the scope of the 
improvements contemplated by the HTRZ will be reasonabl y related to the anticipated revenues 
generated by the HTRZ on the P3 Project and Residential Project. 
 
4.4.7.2 Public Infrastructure District . Developer may elect to 
petition the County to create a Public Infrastructure District (“PID”) pursuant to Utah Code § 17D-
4-101 et seq. for the PC Junction Property. The County shall review and reasonably consider 
Developer’s petition to create the PID as an option to implement and facilitate the financing, 
construction, and operation of some or all the Public Facilities for the P3 Project or the Residential 
Project. If Developer elects to proceed with the creation of  a PID, the County shall cooperate in 
the formation and operation of the PID.  
4.4.7.3 Use of Funds . The Parties will, to the extent required, 
cooperate so that additional tax revenue (less any amount owing or available to Developer 
depending on the mechanism used (i.e., Developer -petitioned PID)) may be used and leveraged 
with other public and private monies to fund public infrastructure and improvements ( County’s 
portion thereof) including but not limited to: (a) Transit Center, bus lanes, Bus Rapid Transit and 
other associated transit infrastructure or operations; (b) Parking Structure associated with transit; 
(c) the local match for the UDOT Project; (d) Pedestrian Bridge; (e) Amphitheater and Com mon 
Green; and (f) Public Plaza. 
4.4.8 Parking.  Unless otherwise provided for by this Administrative DA, 
Developer shall ensure that each phase and/or Project Area within the P3 Project and Residential 
Project meets the parking criteria set forth in the Code. With the approval of the County Manager, 
Developer may reduce the minimum required parking throug h the use of shared parking or other 
measures meant to create greater utilization of public transportation. Developer may provide a 
parking study in conjunction with a Final Site Plan or Subdivision Plat application to demonstrate 
the amount of parking required for such Final Site Plan or Subdivision Plat and request a 
modification by means of an Amendment to the parking requirements included in this 
Administrative DA. 
109
 
Page 39 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
  4.4.8.1 Residential Project Parking. 
4.4.8.1.1 Minimum parking required: 
                                      4.4.8.1.1.1 There shall be a minimum of one (1) parking 
space per studio/eﬃciency or one-bedroom dwelling unit. 
                                      4.4.8.1.1.2 There shall be a minimum of two (2) parking 
spaces per two or more bedroom dwelling unit. 
                                      4.4.8.1.1.3 The parking provisions contained herein shall 
supersede the Land Use Laws and zoning provisions as relates to attached single family housing 
units and multifamily dwelling units. 
4.4.8.1.1.4 Workforce Housing Units restricted to AMI 
less than or equal to 80% AMI and which are within 0.3 miles of the Transit Center may reduce 
the parking requirement by 0.25 stalls for a studio/efficiency or one -bedroom unit and by 0.50 
stalls for a two or more bedrooms unit.   
                          4.4.8.1.2 Parking Area Setbacks : All parking areas and 
setbacks for those areas will be determined with each Final Site Plan.  Parking areas with ﬁfteen 
(15) or more spaces may be planned with zero setback requirements where appropriate. 
                         4.4.8.1.3 Stacking of Spaces: The stacking of parking spaces 
is not permitted, except in attached one -family and multi -family dwelling units where a parking 
space may be provided on the parking apron directly outside of the garage. Only one such space 
shall be permitted outside of each garage space. Stacking of two (2) or more spaces outside of the 
garage shall not be permitted. 
 
4.4.8.2 P3 Project Parking. 
                                  4.4.8.2.1 Commercial Development and residential 
development within the P3 Podium Area of the P3 Project and constructed pursuant to the Joint 
Venture Agreement on or on top of the Parking Structure shall park within the Parking Structure. 
                                  4.4.8.2.2 Medical Office Parking.  There shall be a maximum 
of ﬁve (5) oﬀ street parking spaces per each one thousand (1,000) square feet of medical oﬃce 
space; provided, however, structured parking can exceed this amount.  
4.4.8.2.3 Office, other, and Retail. There shall be a maximum 
of four (4) oﬀ street parking spaces per each one thousand (1,000) square feet of commercial space; 
provided, however, structured parking can exceed this amount. Additional parking may be 
approved for restaurant and specialty retail uses as part of the Final Site Plan approval process. 
 
110
 
Page 40 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
SECTION 5 
PROJECT DEVELOPMENT PROCESSES AND AMENDMENT PROCESSES 
5.1 Developer Phasing.6   
           5.1.1 The availability of vested Residential Units and Commercial Development 
for Developer’s development, except for Tranche III, shall be sequential according to the following 
six (6) tranches:   
  5.1.1.1 Tranche I:  Subject to the provisions of this Administrative DA, once 
the UDOT Project has been approved by the UDOT Transportation Commission to be placed on 
the UDOT Short -Term Statewide Transportation Improvement Program, including complete 
funding (“STIP”, and such date, the “STIP Commencement Date”), Developer shall be entitled 
to apply for and obtain Building Permits and receive Certificates of Occupancy thereafter for up 
to one hundred seventy (170) Workforce Housing Units in either the P3 Project an d/or the 
Residential Project.  
  5.1.1.2 Tranche II:  Subject to the provisions of this Administrative DA, one 
(1) year after the STIP Commencement Date, Developer shall be entitled to apply for and obtain 
Building Permits and receive Certificates of Occupancy on an additional one hundred thirty (180) 
Residential Units and all Commercial Development.  
  5.1.1.3 Tranche III:  Subject to the provisions of this Administrative DA, 
upon the issuance of a Building Permit  and commencement of construction  for the P3 Project 
Parking Structure, Developer shall be entitled to apply for and obtain Building Permits and receive 
Certificates of Occupancy for fifty (50) Residential Units.    
                       5.1.1.5 Tranche IV:  Subject to the provisions of the Administrative DA, (a) 
commencing January 1 of the year that is two (2) years after the STIP Commencement Date, and 
(b) upon UDOT’s advertisement for contractor bid  of the UDOT Project, Developer shall be 
entitled to apply for and obtain Building Permits and receive Certificates of Occupancy on an 
additional one hundred (150) Residential Units.   
                     5.1.1.6 Tranche V:  Subject to the provisions of the Administrative DA, (a) 
commencing January 1 of the year that is three (3) years after the STIP Commencement Date, and 
(b) upon UDOT’s commencement of construction of the UDOT Project, Developer shall be 
entitled to apply for and obtain Building Permits and receive Certif icates of Occupancy on an 
additional one hundred (100) Residential Units. 
                    5.1.1.7 Tranche VI:  Subject to the provisions of the Administrative DA, 
Developer shall be entitled to apply for and obtain Building Permits and receive Certificates of 
Occupancy on the remaining vested Residential Units five (5) months after satisfaction of the two 
(2) conditions for the release of Building Permits set forth in Tranche V.  
 
6 Project phasing aligns with publicly available UDOT milestone information  and recognizes increasing overlap of 
the interim project (No 19996) and the larger SR 224 project.  
111
 
Page 41 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 5.1.1, Developer shall be entitled to apply 
for and obtain Building Permits on or after the Effective Date and receive Certificates of 
Occupancy thereafter for a Senior Living Facility or medical fac ility. Developer’s vested 
Residential Units only shall account for the requirements of this Section 5.1.1 and the County’s 
Workforce Housing Units in the P3 Project shall not apply to or account for the requirements of 
this Section 5.1.1. Whether the condi tion for the release of Building Permits for a particular 
Tranche in this Section 5.1.1 has been satisfied may be based on substantial evidence (as defined 
in Utah Code § 17-27a-103(75)) presented by either Party. 
Furthermore, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 5.1.1, as Developer creates 
specific phasing plans, site plans, building plans, and unit mixes  for the Residential Units, the 
Parties acknowledge that  there may be instances of misalignment between the natural breaks of 
phasing within a residential building or  residential phased area and the number of allowed 
residential Building Permits released in each Tranche. Therefore, in such instance, Developer may 
submit a request to amend this Section 5.1.1 of this Agreement to the County Manager, pursuant 
to Section 3.6 , including reasonable justification for the requested amendment and changes the 
number of residential Building Permits released in a particular Tranche, and the County Manager’s 
approval of the requested amendment shall not be unreasonably withheld or conditioned.     
           5.1.2 Commencing with Tranche III identified Subsection 5.1.1.3 above and 
continuing thereafter at all times, Developer may only obtain Certificates of Occupancy for 
Residential Units if the ratio of then -issued certificates of occupancy for Mar ket Rate Units to 
Workforce Housing Units is the same as the ratio of Market Rate Units to Workforce Housing 
Units approved and vested under this Administrative DA (i.e., (delivered Workforce Housing 
Units/total delivered Residential Units) ≥ (total approved Workforce Housing Units/total approved 
Residential Units)). Developer’s vested Residential Units only shall account for the requirements 
of this Section and the County’s Workforce Housing Units in the P3 Project shall not apply to or 
account for the requirements of this Section.  
 5.1.3 The Parties will work in good faith and use reasonably diligent efforts to 
prepare and pursue a proposal which meets the necessary criteria for the UDOT Project inclusion 
in the STIP. 
5.1.4 Within the Residential Project, Project Areas, not necessarily adjacent to 
each other, which Developer intends to develop and improve during a specified time period may 
proceed by constructing each subphase at one time, or by constructing portions of a subphase, with 
each portion providing a logical extension of the road system through the subphase; provided, 
however, that (a) Developer has completed at a minimum those infrastructure elements and 
services improvements identified as essential for the a pplicable subphase of the Residential 
Project, and (b) adequate offsite facilities and services exist to serve the applicable subphase or 
Developer has paid applicable impact, connection, reservation or similar fees so as to provide 
adequate facilities or services to the extent such payment is required by the terms of this 
Administrative DA and applicable impact fee or other applicable ordinances. 
5.1.5 Traffic Monitoring with each Phase .  Developer shall construct the 
Traffic Mitigation Measures set forth in Exhibit [C] in phases as part of the development of the 
P3 Project and the Residential Project.  
112
 
Page 42 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
5.2 Construction of Infrastructure Improvements . Developer shall construct those 
improvements indicated on each Final Site Plan involving any part of the P3 Project and/or the 
Residential Project in accordance with the engineering requirements of the County consistent with 
the Development Standards.  
5.3 Utility Capacity Verification. Developer shall comply with the applicable sections 
of the Code for off -site and project infrastructure requirements in connection with approval of a 
Subdivision Plat and/or Final Site Plan and shall include the verification of t he continued 
availability of the following for the portion of the P3 Project or the Residential Project (and any 
Project Area) subject to the Subdivision Plat and/or Final Site Plan approval: (a) sewage treatment 
capacity to cover anticipated development within the area, (b) water and water pressure adequate 
for residential consumption or commercial consumption and fire flows, and (c) internal road 
capacity within the P3 Project or Residential Project for each such development activity . The 
County shall cooperate with Developer and contractors working on the P3 Project or the 
Residential Project in their endeavors to obtain any other permits and approvals as may be required 
from other governmental or quasi -governmental agencies having jurisdiction ov er the P3 Project 
or the Residential Project or portions thereof (such as, by way of example, public utilities or utility 
districts or agencies) and, at the request of Developer, in the execution of such permit applications 
and agreements as may be required to be entered into with such other agencies, which request shall 
not be unreasonably denied. 
5.4 Approval of Final Construction Documents. In conjunction with a Final Site Plan 
approval, but in all instances prior to the issuance of a building, grading, or other development 
permit, Developer shall submit all applicable construction plans to the County for administrative 
review in accordance with building codes applicable pursuant to this Administrative DA and the 
Development Standards and shall otherwise comply with any requirements for the issuance of 
Building Permits not inconsistent with the Development Standards. The County agre es that 
Developer may apply for permits for any individual project (meaning the approvals may be 
separately applied for and issued for grading, footings and foundations and the balance of 
improvements). The County agrees that the County will process separa tely any required permits 
for grading, excavation and site work and further agrees to issue in the ordinary course of its 
business any Building Permits that are applied for and that comply with this Administrative DA, 
the Development Standards, approved Final Site Plan, Subdivision Plat, and generally applicable 
building codes to the extent not inconsistent with this Administrative DA or the Development 
Standards.  
5.5 Procedure for Approval of Final Site Plans. The approval of a Final Site Plan for 
any Project Area, permitted structure, or Allowed Use shall follow the process set forth herein, 
with the County Manager acting as the “land use authority” as that term is defined in Utah Code § 
17-27a-103(35). In th e event of a procedural conflict between the Code and this Administrative 
DA, the provisions of this Administrative DA shall govern  as mitigation of a development 
impediment. 
5.5.1 Sketch Plan. Applicant shall submit a Sketch Plan of the proposed Final 
Site Plan to the Staff for preliminary review prior to submittal of a Final Site Plan. The Staff shall 
review and take into consideration the written opinion of the Design Review Committee. Sketc h 
Plans submitted shall meet all of the requirements of this Administrative DA. 
113
 
Page 43 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
5.5.2 Staff Review of Sketch Plans . Staff shall review a Sketch Plan for 
compliance with the requirements of this Administrative DA and shall conduct discussions with 
the Parties, as appropriate, to review any modifications necessary to comply with such 
requirements. 
5.5.3 Submission of Final Site Plan . Applicant shall submit to the Staff an 
application with applicable fees for Final Site Plans for parcels, lots or structures within the P3 
Project or Residential Project. A Final Site Plan shall comply with all of the applicable 
requirements of this Administrative DA and the provisions of the Code not modified or vested by 
this Administrative DA as set forth above.  
5.5.4 Staff Review and Recommendation . Staff shall review the information 
submitted for conformance with this Administrative DA and the provisions of the Code not 
modified by this Administrative DA and shall provide its recommendation to the Planning 
Commission. The recommendation shall be based solely upon compliance with the requirements 
and standards set forth in this Administrative DA and the provisions of the Code not modified or 
vested by this Administrative DA as set forth above. 
5.5.5 Planning Commission Review and Recommendation . The Planning 
Commission shall review the information submitted pursuant to this Administrative DA and shall 
provide its recommendation to the County Manager. The recommendation shall be based solely 
upon compliance with the requirements and standards set forth in this Administrative DA and 
applicable provisions of the Code that are not modified or vested by this Administrative DA as set 
forth above. 
5.5.6 Manager Approval of Final Site Plan. The County Manager shall render 
a decision approving, denying or conditionally approving the Final Site Plan. The decision shall 
be based solely upon compliance with the requirements and standards set forth in this  
Administrative DA and the Code, to the extent not modified or vested by this Administrative DA 
as set forth above. 
5.5.7 Recordation. Once all required service provider signatures are obtained, 
the County Manager shall execute the Final Site Plan and any other applicable documents to be 
recorded in the records of the Recorder’s Office. The applicant shall pay all applicable recording 
fees. The approved Final Site Plan must be recorded within one (1) year of final approval. 
5.5.8 Appeal. Following the exhaustion of the administrative processes herein 
ending in a final determination by the County Manager, that final determination shall be appealable 
to the County Council , acting as the “land use appeal authority,”  within ten (10) business days. 
Appeals of decisions of the County Council shall be to the District Court pursuant to Section 10 -
9-22 of the Code and Utah Code §17 -27a-801 and shall be limited to the administrative record 
before the County Council. 
5.6 Procedure for Approval of Architectural Design Standards . The Architectural 
Design Standards for the P3 Project and/or the Residential Project shall be submitted for approval 
prior to any application for Final Site Plan or Subdivision Plat pertaining thereto.   
114
 
Page 44 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
            5.6.1 Submission of Architectural Design Standards . Developer shall submit 
to the County its proposed Architectural Design Standards for approval. Staff shall conduct a 
review of the proposed Architectural Design Standards to ensure compliance with the General Plan 
and this Administrative DA. 
5.6.2 Planning Commission Review and Recommendation . The Planning 
Commission shall review the proposed Architectural Design Standards submitted pursuant to this 
Administrative DA and, within forty -five (45) calendar days from submission, shall provide a 
recommendation to the County Manager. The recommendation shall be based solely upon 
Developer’s compliance with the requirements and standards set forth in this Administrative DA, 
the Code (to the extent not otherwise vested), and the General Plan. 
5.6.3 County Manager Approval of Architectural Design Standards . The 
County Manager shall render a decision approving, approving with modifications, or denying the 
Architectural Design Standards. The decision shall be based solely upon Developer’s compliance 
with the requirements and standards set forth in this Administrative DA, the Code ( to the extent 
not otherwise vested) and the General Plan. The approved Architectural Design Standards shall be 
recorded against the appropriate portions of the PC Junction Property in the case of the Residential 
Project and against the appropriate portions of the PC Junction Property and the Richins Parcel in 
the case of the P3 Project, and inserted into this Administrative DA as Exhibit [B -4] for the 
Residential Project and Exhibit [A-4] for the P3 Project, and shall be binding upon the Parties. 
5.7 Procedure for Approval of Subdivision Plats. The approval of a Subdivision Plat 
for any subdivision of land within either the P3 Project or the Residential Project shall , subject to 
the Land Use Laws,  follow the process set forth herein, with the County Manager acting as the 
“land use authority” as that term is defined in Utah Code § 17-27a-103(35) and the “administrative 
land use authority” as that term is defined in Utah Code § 17 -27a-604.1(1). The County shall 
process all Subdivision Plat application s, including non -residential applications, consistent with 
the timing requirements described in Utah Code §§ 17 -27a-604.1 and 17-27a-604.2. In the event 
of a procedural conflict between the Code and this Administrative DA, the provisions of this 
Administrative DA shall govern as mitigation of a development impediment. 
5.7.1 Application. Applicant shall submit a draft Subdivision Plat meeting the 
requirements of Chapter 13, Section 14 of the Code to the Staff for preliminary review prior to 
submitting an application for a final Subdivision Plat. 
5.7.2 Staff Review of Subdivision Plat. Staff shall review the draft Subdivision 
Plat for compliance with the requirements of this Administrative DA and shall conduct discussions 
with Parties, as appropriate, to review any modifications necessary to comply with such 
requirements. 
5.7.3 Submission of Final Subdivision Plat. Applicant shall submit to the Staff 
an application with applicable fees for a final Subdivision Plat. A Subdivision Plat shall comply 
with all of the applicable requirements of this Administrative DA and the provisions of the Code 
not modified or vested by this Administrative DA as set forth above.  
 
115
 
Page 45 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
5.7.4 Staff Review and Recommendation . Staff shall review the information 
submitted for conformance with this Administrative DA and the provisions of the Code not 
modified by this Administrative DA and shall provide its recommendation to the Planning 
Commission. The recommendation shall be based solely upon compliance with the requirements 
and standards set forth in this Administrative DA and the provisions of the Code not modified or 
vested by this Administrative DA as set forth above. 
5.7.5 Planning Commission Review and Recommendation . The Planning 
Commission shall review the information submitted pursuant to this Administrative DA and shall 
provide its recommendation to the County Manager. The recommendation shall be based solely 
upon compliance with the requirements and standards set forth in this Administrative DA and 
applicable provisions of the Code that are not modified or vested by this Administrative DA as set 
forth above. 
5.7.6 Manager Approval of Subdivision Plat. The County Manager shall render 
a decision approving, denying, or conditionally approving the Subdivision Plat. The decision shall 
be based solely upon compliance with the requirements and standards set forth in this 
Administrative DA and the Code, to the extent not modified or vested by this Administrative DA 
as set forth above. 
5.7.7 Recordation. Once all required service provider signatures are obtained, 
the County Manager shall execute the Subdivision Plat and any other applicable documents to be 
recorded in the records of the Recorder’s Office. Applicant shall pay all applicable recording fees. 
The approved Subdivision Plat must be recorded within one (1) year of final approval. 
5.7.8 Appeal. Following the exhaustion of the administrative process herein 
ending in a final determination by the County Manger, that final determination shall be appealable 
to the County Council , acting as the “land use appeal authority,” within ten (10) business days. 
Appeals of decisions of the County Council shall be to the District Court pursuant to Section 10 -
9-22 of the Code and Utah Code §17 -27a-801 and shall be limited to the administrative record 
before the County Council. 
5.7.9 Condominium Plat . The review and approval procedure of a 
Condominium Plat will be the same as the review and approval procedure for a Subdivision Plat 
as provided for in this Administrative DA.  
5.8 Procedure for Approval of Low Impact Permits. The approval of a Low Impact 
Permit for land within the P3 Project shall follow the process set forth herein. In the event of a 
procedural conflict between the Code and this Administrative DA, the provisions of this 
Administrative DA shall govern as mitigation of a development impediment. 
5.8.1 Sketch Plan. Applicant shall submit a Sketch Plan of the proposed Low 
Impact Use to the Staff for preliminary review prior to submittal of a Low Impact Permit. The 
Staff shall review and take into consideration the written opinion of the Design Review Committee. 
Sketch Plans submitted shall meet all of the requirements of this Administrative DA. 
5.8.2 Staff Review of Sketch Plans . Staff shall review a Sketch Plan for 
compliance with the requirements of this Administrative DA and shall conduct discussions with 
116
 
Page 46 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
the Parties, as appropriate, to review any modifications necessary to comply with such 
requirements. 
5.8.3 Optional Public Hearing; Planning Commission Recommendation .  
The Community Development Director may determine that due to potential issues of community 
wide concern, additional comment from the community by means of a public hearing and 
recommendation by the Planning Commission is necessary.  The Applicant shall receive notice of 
the public hearing.  Following the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall make a 
recommendation to the Community Development Director regarding the approval, approval  with 
conditions or denial of the Low Impact Permit. 
5.8.4 Community Development Director Approval . The Community 
Development Director shall render a decision approving, denying or conditionally approving the 
Low Impact Permit. The decision shall be based solely upon compliance with the requirements 
and standards set forth in this Administrative DA and the Code, to the extent not modified or vested 
by this Administrative DA as set forth above. 
5.8.5 Appeal. Following the exhaustion of the administrative processes herein 
ending in a final determination by the Community Development Director, that final determination 
shall be appealable to the County Council , acting as the “land use appeal authority,”  within ten 
(10) business days. Appeals of decisions of the County Council shall be to the District Court 
pursuant to Section 10 -9-22 of the Code and Utah Code §17 -27a-801 and shall be limited to the 
administrative record before the County Council. 
5.9 Development Improvements Agreement (DIA) Required . A Development 
Improvements Agreement (“ DIA”), in a form and amount of guarantee to be approved by the 
County Engineer consistent with the Land Use Laws or Utah state law, shall be required to be 
recorded simultaneously with any approved Final Site Plan or Subdivision Plat for any required 
public i nfrastructure which has not yet been constructed.  The County Engineer shall review 
Developer’s proposal for a Development Improvements Agreement and provide i ts 
recommendation for approval to the County Manager. The County Engineer shall establish a 
security amount to complete improvements, warranties after completion, schedules for completing 
all improvements, and remedy provisions in the event of a default. A ll improvements shall be 
warranted by Developer for a period of one year of normal operation from the date of completion, 
as established by the County Engineer. The County, in its administrative regulatory capacity, shall 
retain ten percent (10%) of the se curity for a period of twelve (12) months from the date of 
completion of the improvements as a warranty against defects. A separate Development 
Improvements Agreement may be established for each phase of the development, Project Area, 
and/or for each Final  Site Plan or Subdivision Plat or for specific infrastructure projects.  This 
Section shall be subject in all cases to Land Use Laws, Utah state law, and improvements which 
shall be guaranteed as set forth in the Code and Utah Code §17-27a-604.5. 
5.10 Construction Mitigation and Management Plan Required .  A grading and/or 
Building Permit will not be issued for any facility or structure within the P3 Project or the 
Residential Project until an adequate Construction Mitigation and Management Plan has been 
established for the Final Site Plan, Subdivision Pl at or Project Area, and approved by the County 
Engineer consistent with the Land Use Laws, who may require changes to address any unforeseen 
117
 
Page 47 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
impacts that occur during construction. The plan shall address the following matters specifically, 
together with any other related matters identified by the County Engineer and Developer. A 
separate plan may be established for each phase or Final Site Plan of the P3 Project or Residential 
Project. 
5.10.1 Revegetation/erosion protection/runoff control; 
5.10.2 Wetland and watershed protection;  
5.10.3 Wetland enhancement plan (if wetland enhancement is required); 
5.10.4 All disturbance areas shall be carefully marked/fenced to the extent possible 
prior to construction. Whenever construction occurs near riparian and drainage areas and 
significant vegetation which shall be retained on the site, there shall be an appr opriate amount of 
screening/buffering from construction disturbance; 
5.10.5 Site grading; 
5.10.6 Dust and debris control; 
5.10.7 Recycling construction material waste; 
5.10.8 Damage to public roadways as a result of construction; 
5.10.9 Traffic control/construction management control; 
5.10.10 Hours of construction; 
5.10.11 Impact of noise on adjacent residential and commercial uses; 
5.10.12 Staging and screening of construction materials and equipment (short term 
basis only);  
5.10.13 Solid Waste Disposal for construction wastes; and 
5.10.14 Parking. 
5.11 Concurrency Management Required.  Prior to the approval of a Building Permit 
for any structure approved in the P3 Project or Residential Project, an application for a Building 
Permit shall demonstrate that all concurrency management requirements of the Code and the 
Summit County Code of  Health have been met. The County, in its administrative regulatory 
capacity, shall cause the issuance of a Building Permit upon demonstration of compliance with all 
such requirements. 
5.12 Grading and Excavation .  Due to prior historical excavating and filling of 
materials on and within the Park City Tech Center, the topography of the area is characterized by 
manmade cuts, fills, and storage of soils.  In consequence, to appropriately grade and excavate the 
lands within the P3 Project and Residential Project, mass site grading is permitted.  Developer 
118
 
Page 48 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
shall obtain a grading and excavation permit from the County Engineer, who may require 
reasonable mitigation measures as a condition to issuance of such permit.  
5.13 Approval of Joint Venture Agreement.  The Parties and HVT will work together 
in good faith to prepare, negotiate, finalize, and execute the Joint Venture Agreement, which 
includes the applicable terms set forth in this Administrative DA, within one hundred and eighty 
(180) days of the Effective Date. The County represents and warrants to Developer that the County 
Manager, as the chief executive officer of Summit County, has and  shall have the authority to 
approve the Joint Venture Agreement on the Coun ty’s behalf and, upon approval, the County 
Manager and HVT shall execute and amend the Joint Venture Agreement and any other applicable 
documents related to the Joint Venture Agreement.  
 
SECTION 6 
SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS 
6.1 Binding Effect.  This Administrative DA shall be binding on the successors and 
assigns of Developer in the ownership or development of any portion of the PC Junction Property 
or the Richins Parcel. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a purchaser of any lot or parcel within the 
PC Junction Property , the Richins Parcel, or any portion thereof shall be responsible for 
performance of Developer’s obligations hereunder as to the portion so transferred. The 
Developer’s obligations under this Administrative DA shall  not apply to residents or property 
owners who purchase developed lots or units within the PC Junction Property or the Richins 
Parcel.  
6.2 Assignment and Transfer of Project .  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary 
in this Administrative DA, the rights and responsibilities of Developer under this Administrative 
DA may be assigned in whole or in part by Developer without the consent of, but with written 
notice to, the County where such assignment is to an entity affiliated with Developer. All other 
assignments shall require the consent of the County as provided herein. Developer shall be entitled 
to transfer any portion of the PC Junction  Property ( or where applicable, the Richins Parcel ) 
subject to the terms of this Administrative DA upon written notice to the County and subject to 
obtaining the assumption of Developer’s obligations to the extent required by Section [6.3] below. 
Developer shall give notice to the County of any proposed assignment and provide such 
information regarding the proposed assignee that the County may reasonably request in making 
the evaluation permitted under this Section [6.2]. Such notice shall include providing  the County 
with all necessary contact information for the proposed assignee. The County may only withhold 
its consent if the County is not reasonably satisfied of the assignee’s reasonable financial ability 
to perform the obligations of Developer proposed to be assigned. The County’s failure to respond 
to a request to approve the assignment within thirty (30) calendar days will be deemed the County’s 
consent to the assignment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, neither Developer, nor its successors, 
shall be r equired to notify the County or obtain the County’s consent with regard to the sale of 
individual lots or parcels within the PC Junction Property (or where applicable, the Richins Parcel) 
which have received development approval in accordance with the terms of this Administrative 
DA. In the event of any such complete transfer of all or a portion of Developer’s interest in the PC 
Junction Property (or where applicable, the Richins Parcel), the transferee shall be deemed to take 
the place of the transferor for all purposes under this Administrative DA with respect to that portion 
of the properties so transferred. All obligations to notify or obtain any consent of the County shall 
119
 
Page 49 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
terminate with respect to portions of the PC Junction Property ( or where applicable, the Richins 
Parcel) on which all of the improvements required by this Administrative DA have been 
substantially completed. 
6.3 Release of Developer.  Except for the sale of lots or parcels which have received 
development approval in accordance with the terms of this Administrative DA, in which case this 
requirement shall not apply, in the event of a transfer of all or a portion of the PC Junction Property,  
or in the event that Developer obtains ownership in the Richins Parcel, the transferring Party shall 
obtain an assumption by th e transferee of the transferor’s obligations under this Administrative 
DA relative to such transferred portion. Any transferee shall consent in writing to be bound by the 
assigned terms and conditions of this Administrative DA as a condition precedent to the 
effectiveness of the  assignment, the transferee shall be fully substituted for the transferor under 
this Administrative DA as to the parcel so transferred, and the transferor executing this 
Administrative DA shall be released from any further obligations with respect to this 
Administrative DA as to the parcel so transferred. 
6.4 Obligations and Rights of Mortgage Lenders .  Developer may finance the P3 
Project or the Residential Project or any portion thereof, and may execute one or more mortgages, 
deeds of trust or other security arrangements with respect to the PC Junction Property, the Richins 
Parcel in the event that Developer obtains ownership in the Richins Parcel, and any parcels created 
therein and may assign this Administrative DA to a holder of any such financial instrument without 
prior written notice to or consent of the County. The holder of any mortgage, deed of trust, or other 
security arrangement with respect to the PC Junction Property, the Richins Parcel in the event that 
Developer obtains ownership in the Richins Parcel, or any portion thereof, shall not be ob ligated 
under this Administrative DA to construct or complete improvements or to guarantee such 
construction or completion, but shall otherwise be bound by all of the terms and conditions of this 
Administrative DA which pertain to the PC Junction Property, the Richins Parcel in the event that 
Developer obtains ownership in the Richins Parcel or such portion thereof in which it holds an 
interest. Any such holder who comes into possession of the PC Junction Property, the Richins 
Parcel, or any portion thereof, pursuant to a foreclosure of a mortgage or a deed of trust, or deed 
in lieu of such foreclosure, shall take the PC Junction Property, the Richins Parcel, or such portion 
thereof, subject to any pro rata claims for payments or charges against the PC Junct ion Property, 
the Richins Parcel, or such portion thereof, deed restrictions, or other obligations which accrue 
prior to the time such holder comes into possession.  Nothing in this Administrative DA shall be 
deemed or construed to permit or authorize any such holder to devote the PC Junction Property, 
the Richins Parcel, or any portion thereof, to any uses, or to construct any improvements thereon, 
other than those uses and improvements provided fo r or authorized by this Administrative DA, 
and, as would be the case in any assignment, the purchaser of the PC Junction Property or Richins 
Parcel from the holder shall be subject to all of the terms and conditions of this Administrative 
DA, including the obligation to complete all required amenities and improvements. 
6.5 Reservation of Reimbursement Rights .  Notwithstanding any provision in the 
Land Use Laws to the contrary, Developer reserves unto itself the right to all payments and 
reimbursements for items constructed within the PC Junction Property or by Developer even if 
Developer sells any portion of the PC Junction Property or the Richins Parcel to a third-party. Any 
assignment of the right to receive payments and reimbursements under this Administrative DA 
must be in writing, signed by Developer, and must includ e specific details regarding the right or 
 
120
 
Page 50 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
amount of reimbursement transferred to a third party. In the event of a transfer of any 
reimbursement or payment right under this Administrative DA, both assignor and assignee must 
provide written notice to County in accordance with this Administrative DA.  Notwithstanding the 
foregoing, Developer shall not be entitled to retain reimbursements or payments under this 
Administrative DA that exceed the actual costs incurred by Developer. 
6.6 Assignment of County’s Workforce Housing Units .  Notwithstanding anything 
to the contrary in this Administrative DA, the rights and responsibilities of County with respect to 
its 160 Workforce Housing Units, as set forth in Sections 1.7 and 4.4.2.3, may be assigned in whole 
or in part by County with the prior written consent of Developer, which shall not be unreasonably 
withheld, conditioned, or delayed so long as the proposed assignee demonstrates financial ability, 
to Developer’s reasonable satisfacti on, to comply with the rights and responsibilities of County 
with respect to the County’s 160 Workforce Housing Units. 
SECTION 7 
REVIEW, DEFAULT, TERMINATION AND DISPUTES 
7.1 Periodic Review. The County may initiate a formal review of progress pursuant to 
this Administrative DA no more often than once every twenty -four (24) months to determine if 
there has been demonstrated compliance with the terms hereof.  
7.2 Default. 
7.2.1 Events of Default .  An event of default (“ Event of Default ”) under this 
Administrative DA occurs upon the happening of one or more of the following events or 
conditions. 
7.2.1.1 A material warranty, representation, or statement made or 
furnished by Developer to the County in this Administrative DA is false or proves to have been 
false in any material respect when it was made. 
7.2.1.2 A finding and determination made by the County following 
a periodic review under Section [7.1] that, upon the basis of substantial evidence, Developer has 
not complied with or otherwise is in breach or default of one or more of the material terms o r 
conditions of this Administrative DA. 
7.2.1.3 County has not complied with or otherwise is in breach or 
default of one or more of the material terms or conditions of this Administrative DA. 
7.2.1.4 Any other willful act or omission of a Party which materially 
interferes with the intent and objectives of this Administrative DA. 
7.2.1.5 Developer shall have failed to submit at least one complete 
application for a Final Site Plan approval for an Allowed Use within the ten (10) year period after 
the Effective Date, or during any five (5) year period after such ten -year period and wi thin the 
Term of this Administrative DA. 
7.2.2 Procedure Upon Default. 
121
 
Page 51 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
7.2.2.1 After the occurrence of a default under Section [7.2.1], the 
Party claiming the default shall give the Party alleged to have committed the default (the 
“Defaulting Party ”) written notice specifying the nature of the alleged default and, when 
appropriate, the manner in which the default must be satisfactorily cured. The Defaulting Party 
shall have sixty (60) days after receipt of written notice to cure the Event of Default if the Event 
of Default is curable. In the event the nature of the Event of Default reasonably requires more than 
sixty (60) days to cure and provided the Defaulting Party has commenced actions reasonably 
designed to cure the Event of Default within the sixty (60) day cure period and thereafter diligently 
proceeds with reasonably diligent efforts to cure the alleged default, the then cure period shall be 
extended for such additional period as the Defaulting Party is prosecuting those actions diligently 
to completion. After proper notice and expiration of the cure period without cure, (i) Developer, if 
the County is the Defaulting Party, may take all appropriate legal action, or (ii) County, if the 
Defaulting Party is the Developer, may terminate this Administrative DA by giving written notice 
in accordance with this Administrative DA. Failure or delay in declaring or giving notice of an 
Event of Default shall not constitute a waiver of any Event of Default under Section [7.2.1], nor 
shall it change the time of such default. Any exercise by the County of a termination right after 
notice and opportunity to cure shall be subject to the provisions of Section [7.3] below. 
7.2.2.2 The County does not waive any claim of default in 
performance by Developer, if on periodic review the County does not propose to modify or 
terminate this Administrative DA; provided, however, if the County Manager  has actual 
knowledge of a claim of a  defect, default or breach in performance and does not so notify 
Developer in writing within twelve (12) months of the County Manager first knowing of such  
claim, then such a claim is waived as to that claim only but not as to the new claims separate from 
the claim waived. 
7.2.2.3 Any default or inability to cure a default caused by strikes, 
lockouts, pandemics or health related crisis, labor disputes, acts of God, inability to obtain labor 
or materials or reasonable substitutes therefor, enemy or hostile governmental action , civil 
commotion, fire or other casualty, and other similar causes beyond the reasonable control of the 
Party obligated to perform, shall excuse the performance by such Party for a period equal to the 
period during which any such event prevented, delayed or stopped any required performance or 
effort to cure a default. 
7.2.2.4 Adoption of a law or other governmental activity making 
performance by the applicant unprofitable or more difficult or more expensive does not excuse the 
performance of the obligation by Developer.  
7.2.2.5 All other remedies at law or in equity which are consistent 
with the provisions of this Administrative DA are available to the Parties to pursue in the event 
there is an Event of Default. 
7.2.2.6 In the event of default of the County hereunder or under the 
Joint Venture Agreement related to the Parking Structure, and therefore the remaining 
improvements and Vested Densities of the P3 Podium Area, are unable to be developed as 
contemplated in the P3  Project Master Plan and to be set forth in the Joint Venture Agreement, 
then Developer may proceed to develop the Residential Project in accordance with this 
122
 
Page 52 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
Administrative DA and the Developer will be entitled to the following minimum remedies: (a) if 
such event of default occurs prior to Developer’s conveyance of the Transit Center parcel to HVT, 
then Developer will be entitled to develop such parcel in accordance with the  Allowed Uses and 
Vested Densities set forth in this Administrative DA with respect to the P3 Podium Area; (b) if 
such event of default occurs after Developer’s conveyance of the Transit Center parcel to HVT but 
prior to commencing constructi on of the Parking Structure, then Developer will be entitled to 
receive a parcel of land equivalent in size to the Transit Center parcel from the Richins Parcel and 
develop such parcel in accordance with the Allowed Uses and Vested Densities set forth in t his 
Administrative DA with respect to the P3 Podium Area; and (c) if such event of default occurs 
after Developer’s conveyance of the Transit Center parcel to HVT and after commencing 
construction of the Parking Structure, then Developer will be entitled to complete construction of 
the Parking Structure and obtain reimbursement from the County for the County’s proportional 
costs associated with the Parking Structure. 
7.3 Termination. 
7.3.1 Termination Upon Completion of Development .  This Administrative 
DA may be terminated by agreement of the Parties, which shall not be unreasonably withheld, 
conditioned, or delayed, that “Completion of Development” (defined below) has occurred and the 
last to be satisfied of the Parties’ obligations under this Administrative DA have been satisfied 
(except those obligations of the Parties which expressly survive the termination of this 
Administrative DA as provided below). The phrase “Completion of Development” means that (a) 
all of the parcels or lots within the PC Junction Property and Richins Parcel have been approved 
through a Final Site Plan and/or Subdivision Plat, (b) all road improvements and utilities within 
the P3 Project and Residential Project have been fully completed (or permits have been issued for 
the construction of any such improvements that have not been fully completed), and (c) all parcels 
or lots within the P3 Project and Residential Project have been covered with the P3 and Residential 
Declarations. In the event any Party believes the requirements of this Section for termination of 
this Administrative DA have been met, the Party may give to the other Party a notice of Completion 
of Development. The Parties receiving the notice may reasonably disagree with the position of the 
Party giving the notice of Completion of Development by giving a written objection within thirty 
(30) days after the notice of Completion of Development is received. When the Parties have agreed 
that the requirem ents of this Section have been met, the County shall record a notice that this 
Administrative DA has been terminated (other than the obligations of the Parties which expressly 
survive the termination of this Administrative DA) by agreement of the Parties upon Completion 
of Development as contemplated by this Section. 
7.3.2 Termination Before Completion of Development. 
7.3.2.1 This Administrative DA shall terminate at the end of its 
Term unless the Term is extended by the County Manager. 
7.3.2.2 This Administrative DA shall be subject to termination by 
the County Manager prior to Completion of Development when an Event of Default by Developer 
remains uncured after notice and opportunity to cure as provided in Section [7.2]. The termination 
of this Administrative DA shall be exercised by the County Manager after written notice to all 
owners of the Remaining Undeveloped Land within the PC Junction Property and Richins Parcel, 
123
 
Page 53 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
and after a hearing providing an opportunity of all such parties to be heard on the appropriateness 
of termination. For purposes of Article 7, the “ Remaining Undeveloped Land within the PC 
Junction Property” or similar phrase shall refer to all land covered by this Administrative DA 
that (a) has not been subdivided for future sale or development and improved with road and utility 
improvements or (b) at the time is not the subject of a pending or approved application for a 
Subdivision Plat or Final Site Plan. 
7.3.2.3 In the event of a termination pursuant to Section [7.3.2.2], 
the County shall record a notice against the Remaining Undeveloped Land within the PC Junction 
Property and the Richins Parcel indicating that this Administrative DA has been terminated and 
that further development activity shall be governed by the provisions of Sections [7.3.3] and 7.3.7 
(with respect to the State Imposed Entitlement) of this Administrative DA and , if not in 
contravention of the State Imposed Entitlement,  the terms of the  Code and General Plan then in 
existence and thereafter amended from time to time. 
7.3.3 Effect of Termination on Future Land Uses. 
7.3.3.1 Notwithstanding the termination of this Administrative DA 
for any reason, any portion of the PC Junction Property or the Richins Parcel that is improved in 
accordance with this Administrative DA and parcels or lots created by the subdivision and other 
approvals contemplated hereby shall be entitled to be used and improved, and any improvements 
located or permitted to be located thereon at the time of termination shall be entitled to be 
constructed, used, remodeled and reconstructed in accordance wit h the provisions of this  
Administrative DA. The foregoing provisions shall apply even if such use or the improvements 
authorized by this Administrative DA do not conform to the requirements of otherwise applicable 
Summit County laws and regulations at the time. 
7.3.3.2 Notwithstanding the termination of this Administrative DA 
for any reason, any portion of the PC Junction Property or Richins Parcel that is the subject of a 
pending or approved application for a Subdivision Plat approval or Final Site Plan approval shall 
be entitled to be processed, the pending application approved or not approved, used and improved, 
and any improvements located or permitted to be located thereon at the time of termination shall 
be entitled to be constructed, used, remodeled and reconstructed in accordance with the provisions 
of this Administrative DA provided, subject to this Administrative DA and applicable law, the 
owner of the portion of the PC Junction Property or Richins Parcel that is the subject of the 
application proceeds in a commercially reasonable manner to finalize necessary approvals and 
thereafter proceeds in a commercially reas onable manner to commence and complete the 
improvements required by the application. The foregoing provisions shall apply even if such use 
or the improvements authorized by this Administrative DA do not conform to the requirements of 
otherwise applicable Summit County laws and regulations at the time. 
7.3.3.3 The benefits extended by Sections [7.3.3.1] or [7.3.3.2] 
above shall apply to the uses and structures permitted at the time of the termination to be 
constructed on lots or parcels approved and subdivided under those referenced sections, regardless 
of when an application for a Building Permit is submitted for structures on any such lot or parcel.  
124
 
Page 54 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
7.3.3.4 Subject to Sections [7.3.3.1] , [7.3.3.2], and 7.3.7, upon the 
expiration of this Administrative DA, or should the County terminate this Administrative DA 
under the provisions hereof, the development of the Remaining Undeveloped Land within the PC 
Junction Property and the Richins Parcel will thereafter proceed in compliance with and be 
governed by the State Imposed Entitlement and, if not in contravention of the State Imposed 
Entitlement, the applicable Code and General Plan then in existence, as we ll as with all other 
provisions of Utah state law. 
7.3.4 Effect of Termination on Developer Obligations . Termination of this 
Administrative DA as to any Developer of the PC Junction Property, the Richins Parcel, or any 
portion thereof, shall not affect any of Developer’s obligations to provide the contemplated 
amenities and benefits for any project under construction or approved at the time of  termination 
but constructed after termination, comply with the terms and conditions of any applicable zoning, 
or subdivision plat, site plan, Building Permit, or other land use entitlements approved with respect 
to the PC Junction Property or the Richins Parcel, nor shall it affect or invalidate in any manner 
the following specific obligations of Developer, which shall survive the termination of this 
Administrative DA: (a) the obligation of Developer to complete the Final Site Plan and other 
infrastructure improvements covered by any issued permit ( including permits issued after the 
termination of this Administrative DA based on vested applications or the provisions of Section 
[7.3.3]) for continued development under such Final Site Plan; (b) the dedication of any trails and 
open space as requiring dedication or the granting of protection through conservation easements 
over such lands as delineated in the P3 Project or Residential Proj ect to the extent shown on the 
approved Final Site Plans for continued development under such Final Site Plan; (c) the 
construction of any roads or public improvements covered by a recorded Subdivision Plat unless 
vacated, to the extent show n on the recorded Subdivision Plat for continued development under 
such recorded Subdivision Plat; (d) the payment of impact fees to the extent such fees are payable 
under the terms of this Administrative DA and any applicable impact fee ordinance or 
implementing resolutions; and (e) the compliance with Developer’s Mutual Releases and Hold 
Harmless Covenants under Sections [8.2 and 8.3] of this Administrative DA; and (f) Section [9.6]. 
7.3.5 Effect of Termination on the County Obligations.  Upon any termination 
of this Administrative DA, the entitlements, conditions of development, limitations on fees, and 
all other terms and conditions of this Administrative DA shall no longer be vested by reason of 
this Administrative DA with respect to the remaining undeveloped land within the PC Junction 
Property and Richins Parcel, except to the extent set forth in Section [7.3.3] or Section 7.3.7. Upon 
such a termination, the County shall no longer be prohibited by this Administrative DA from 
making any changes or modifications to such entitlements, conditions, or fees applicable to such 
undeveloped portions of the PC Junction Property and the Richins Parcel subject to the effect of 
Section [7.3.3]  or Section 7.3.7.  The County shall remain obligated after termination of this 
Administrative DA to recognize and apply the provisions of Section [7.3.3], which incorporates 
the use, intensity, development standards and configuration contained in this Administrative DA 
under the circumstances described therein, or Section 7.3.7. 
7.3.6 Damages upon Termination . Developer shall not be entitled to any 
monetary damages and hereby waives any claim for monetary damages against the County for any 
termination based upon the unlawful termination of this Administrative DA. 
125
 
Page 55 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
7.3.7 Reservation of State Imposed Entitlement .  Notwithstanding any 
provision of this Administrative DA to the contrary, Developer expressly reserves all rights to 
develop the PC Junction Property as permitted by the State Imposed Entitlement. Nothing in this 
Administrative DA shall be construed to w aive, diminish, or otherwise impair the State Imposed 
Entitlement except as expressly set forth herein. In the event that this Administrative DA is 
terminated for any reason by either Party in accordance with i ts terms, does not fully implement 
the State Imposed Entitlement, or is declared invalid, void, or unenforceable in whole or in part by 
a court of competent jurisdiction or by operation of law, then, to the fullest extent permitted by 
law: 
(i) Developer shall have the right, at its sole discretion, to the State 
Imposed Entitlement, as if this Administrative DA had never been executed;  
(ii) Any limitations, conditions, or obligations imposed upon Developer 
by this Administrative DA that are more restrictive than those imposed by the State 
Imposed Entitlement or applicable law shall be of no further force or effect;  
(iii) The Parties acknowledge and agree that the intent of this provision 
is to ensure that Developer retains the full benefit of all development rights 
available under the State Imposed Entitlement, independent of this Administrative 
DA; and 
(iv) The Parties further acknowledge and agree that the State Imposed 
Entitlement must be implemented through an appropriate form of administrative 
process. 
The provisions of this subsection shall survive the termination, expiration, or 
invalidation of this Administrative DA. 
7.4 Disputes.   
7.4.1 Meet and Confer . Upon written request by Developer, the County and 
Developer or an applicant shall meet within fifteen (15) business days regarding (a) any tabling of 
a development application or denial of a development application (b) a dispute in the interpretation 
or administration of this Administrative DA, or (c) the provisions of Section 7.2.2 do not resolve 
an alleged default under this Administrative DA, to discuss how the Developer may resolve the 
issues specified in the tabling or denial of a development application or how the Parties may 
resolve the dispute or alleged default.  
7.4.2 Mediation.  Issues resulting that the Parties are not able to resolve by “meet 
and confer” under Section 7.4.1 shall be mediated and include, without limitation, issuance of 
Building Permits. If the County and Developer are unable to resolve a disagreement subject to 
mediation, the Parties shall attempt within ten (10) business days after a demand for mediation 
under this Section to appoint a mutually acceptable mediator with knowledge of the legal issue in 
dispute. If the County and Developer are una ble to agree on a single acceptable mediator, they 
shall each, within ten (10) additional business days, appoint their own representative. These two 
representatives shall, between them, choose the single mediator. The Parties shall each pay one -
half (1/2) of the fees of the chosen mediator. The chosen mediator shall within thirty (30) business 
126
 
Page 56 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
days, review the positions of the Parties regarding the mediation issue and promptly attempt to 
mediate the issue between the Parties. If the Parties are unable to reach agreement, the mediator 
shall notify the Parties in writing of the resolution that the  mediator deems appropriate. The 
mediator’s opinion shall not be binding on the Parties, nor shall it be admissible in any subsequent 
proceedings regarding the dispute.     
7.5 Institution of Legal Action.  In an Event of Default, in addition to any other rights 
or remedies, either Party may institute legal action to cure, correct, or remedy any default or breach, 
to specifically enforce any covenants or agreements set forth in this Administrative DA or to enjoin 
any threatened or attempted violation of this Administrative DA, or to obtain any remedies 
consistent with the purpose of this Administrative DA. Legal actions shall be instituted in the Third 
Judicial District Court of the County of Summit, State of Utah. 
7.6 Other Enforcement Provisions .  The Parties recognize that the County has the 
right to enforce its rules, policies, regulations, and ordinances, subject to the terms of this 
Administrative DA, and may, at its option, seek an injunction to compel such compliance.  In the 
event that Developer or any user of the subject property violates the rules, policies, regulations, or 
ordinances of the County or violates the terms of this Administrative DA, the County may, without 
electing to seek an injunction and after thirty (30) days written notice to correct the violation, take 
such actions as allowed under law until such conditions have been corrected or come into 
compliance by Developer.  The Parties further recognize that Developer has the right to enforce 
the provisions of this Administrative DA by seeking an injunction to compel compliance with law 
and this Administrative DA to the extent not inconsistent with the County’s reserved legislative 
and police powers, as well as the County’s discretionary administrative decision-making functions 
provided for herein. Both Parties shall be free from any liability arising out of the exercise of its 
rights under this Section; provided, however, that any party may be liable to the other for the 
exercise of any rights in violation of Rule 11 of the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure, Rule 11 of the 
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and/or Utah Code § 78B-5-825, as each may be amended.  
SECTION 8 
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE PARTIES;  
HOLD HARMLESS 
8.1 Relationship of Parties .  The contractual relationship between the County and 
Developer arising out of this Administrative DA is one of independent contractor and not agency. 
This Administrative DA does not create any third -party beneficiary rights.  It is specifically 
understood by the Parties that: (a) the P3 Project is a public -private development; (b) the 
Residential Project is a private development; (c) the County has no interest in or respon sibilities 
for or duty to third parties concerning any improvements to the PC Junction Property or the Richins 
Parcel except as expressly provided herein or in the Joint Venture Agreement, or until the County 
accepts dedication, ownership or maintenance of the improvements pursuant to a specific written 
agreement providing for acceptance of dedication, ownership or maintenance; (d) Developer shall 
have the full power and exclusive control of the PC Junction Property subject to the terms, 
conditions, limitations, restrictions, and obligations of Developer set fort h in this Administrative 
DA; and (e) County shall have the full power and exclusive control of the Richins Parcel subject 
to the terms, conditions, limitations, restrictions, and obligations of Developer set forth in this  
Administrative DA. 
127
 
Page 57 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
8.2 Mutual Releases.  At the time of, and subject to, (a) the expiration of any applicable 
appeal period with respect to the approval of this Administrative DA without an appeal having 
been filed or (b) the final determination of any court upholding this Administrative DA, whichever 
occurs later, and excepting the Parties’ respective interests, rights and obligations referenced in, 
by, and under this Administrative DA, Developer, on behalf of itself and Developer’s partners, 
officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys and consultants, hereby releases the County and 
the County’s councilmembers, officials, employees, agents, attorneys and consultants, and the 
County, on behalf of itself and the County’s councilmembers, officials, employees, agents, 
attorneys and consultants, hereby releases Developer and Developer’s partners, officers, directors, 
employees, agents, attorneys and consultants, from and against any and all claims, demands, 
liabilities, costs, expenses of whatever nature, whether known or unknown, and whether liquidated 
or contingent, arising on or before the Effective Date in connection with the application, processing 
or approval of applications relating to the P3 Project and the Residential Project.   
             8.2.1 With respect to that certain lawsuit styled Summit County v. Park City 
Junction, LLC, a Utah Limited Liability Company dba Dakota Pacific, et. al., in the Third Judicial 
District Court, Summit County, State of Utah, Civil No. 230500097 (the “ Lawsuit”), upon the 
execution of this Administrative DA, both Parties agree that each will execute a motion for 
dismissal with prejudice with respect to the Lawsuit, each Party to bear their own costs and fees 
with respect to the Lawsuit.  
8.3 Hold Harmless. 
8.3.1 Agreement of Developer.  Developer agrees to and shall hold the County, 
its councilmembers, officers, elected officials, agents, employees, consultants, attorneys, special 
counsel and representatives harmless from liability: (a) for damages, just compensation, 
restitution, judicial or equitable relief ar ising out of claims for personal injury, including health, 
and claims for property damage which may arise from the direct or indirect operations of 
Developer or its contractors, subcontractors, agents, employees or other persons acting on their 
behalf which relates to the P3 Project  (subject to and except as may be modified by the Joint 
Venture Agreement) and Residential Project; and (b) from any claim that damages, just 
compensation, restitution, judicial or equitable relief is due by reason of the County entering into 
this Administrative DA. Any such action shall be referred to as an “ Indemnified Claim .”  
Developer agrees to pay all costs for the defense of the County and its councilmembers, officers, 
agents, employees, consultants, attorneys, special coun sel, and representatives regarding any 
Indemnified Claim. Th e hold harmless agreement  in 8.3.1(b) applies to all claims for damages, 
just compensation, restitution, judicial or equitable relief suffered or alleged to have been suffered 
by reason of the effects arising from the County executing this Administrative DA . County may 
make all reasonable decisions with respect to its representation in any legal proceeding relating to 
an Indemnified Claim. 
8.3.2 Exceptions to Hold Harmless .  The agreements of Developer in Section 
[8.3.1] shall not be applicable to (a) any claim arising by reason of the gross negligence or 
intentional misconduct of the County, or (b) any claim by Developer for itself or any owner of any 
portion of the PC Junction Property or the Richins Parcel, that the County has breached the terms 
of this Administrative DA, including claims for just compensation or attorney fees. 
128
 
Page 58 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
8.3.3 Hold Harmless Procedures.  Except in the Event of Default, the County 
shall give written notice of any claim, demand, action or proceeding which is the subject of 
Developer’s hold harmless agreement as soon as practicable but not later than ten (10) business 
days after the assert ion or commencement of the claim, demand, action or proceeding; provided 
however, the County’s inadvertent failure to provide such notice within such time period shall not 
be a breach of this Section of this Administrative DA unless such failure materially impairs 
Developer’s defenses in such action, in which case the County shall be deemed to have waived the 
provisions of this Section. In the event any such notice is given, the County shall be entitled to 
participate in the de fense of such claim. Each Party agrees to cooperate with the other in the 
defense of any claim and to minimize duplicative costs and expenses. 
SECTION 9 
GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
9.1 Agreements to Run with the Land .  This Administrative DA and its 
accompanying Exhibits shall be recorded against the P3 Project described in Exhibit [A-1] and 
the Residential Project described in Exhibit [B -1]. The agreements contained herein shall be 
deemed to run with the land and shall be binding on and shall inure to the benefit of all successors 
in ownership of the properties. As used herein, Developer shall include the Parties signing this 
Administrative DA and identified as “ Developer,” and all s uccessor owners of any part of the 
Richins Parcel and PC Junction Property. 
9.2 Construction of Agreement.  This Administrative DA should be construed so as 
to effectuate the public purpose of implementing long-range planning objectives, obtaining public 
benefits, and protecting any compelling, countervailing public interest while providing reasonable 
assurances of continuing vested development rights. Where there is a conflict between the terms 
of this Administrative DA and any Exhibit, the more specific provision shall be controlling. 
9.3 Laws of General Applicability.  Where this Administrative DA refers to laws of 
general applicability to the Richins Parcel and the PC Junction Property, or the P3 Project or the 
Residential Project and other properties, that language of this Administrative DA shall be deemed 
to refer to laws which apply to other developed and subdivided properties within the Snyderville 
Basin. 
9.4 No Waiver.  Failure of a Party hereto to exercise any right hereunder shall not be 
deemed a waiver of any such right and shall not affect the right of such Party to exercise at some 
future time said right or any other right it may have hereunder. Unless this Administrative DA is 
amended or revised as allowed by this Administrative DA, no officer, official or agent of the 
County has the power to amend, modify or alter this Administrative DA or waive any of its 
conditions as to bind the County by making any promise or representation not contained herein.  
9.5 Entire Agreement .  This Administrative DA constitutes the entire agreement 
between the Parties and supersedes all prior agreements (excepting the Easement Option 
Agreement), whether oral or written, covering the same subject matter (including the Original DA 
as specifically provided hereinabove).  This Administrative DA may not be modified or amended 
except as anticipated in Section [3.7] of this Administrative DA. To the extent there is a conflict 
between the Land Use Laws, County’s Future Laws, and this Administrative DA, the hierarchy of 
129
 
Page 59 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
priority, from highest priority to lowest prior ity, taking into account the mitigation of any 
development impediments, is as follows: (i) this Administrative DA; (ii) County’s Land Use Laws; 
and (iii) the County’s Future Laws.  
9.6 Attorneys Fees.  Should any Party hereto employ an attorney for the purpose of 
enforcing this Administrative DA, or any judgment based on this Administrative DA, for any 
reason or in any legal proceeding whatsoever, including insolvency, bankruptcy, arbitration, 
declaratory relief or other litigation, including appeals or rehearings, and whether or not an action 
has actually commenced, the prevailing Party shal l be entitled to receive from the other Party 
thereto reimbursement for all reasonable attorne ys’ fees and all costs and expenses. Should any 
judgment or final order be issued in that proceeding, said reimbursement shall be specified therein.  
9.7 Notices.  All notices hereunder shall be given in writing by certified mail, postage 
prepaid, at the following addresses: 
To the County: 
Summit County Manager 
60 N. Main 
P.O. Box 128  
Coalville, UT 84017 
 
With copies to: 
Summit County Attorney’s Office 
60 N. Main Street 
P.O. Box 128  
Coalville, UT 84017 
 
  To HVT: 
  Executive Director 
  High Valley Transit District 
  2460 Kilby Road 
  Park City, Utah 84098 
 
To Developer: 
Park City Junction, LLC 
c/o Dakota Pacific Real Estate 
Attention: Scott Swallow  
299 South Main Street, Suite 2450 
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 
 
With copies to: 
Snell & Wilmer, LLP  
Attention: Craig T. Jenson 
15 West South Temple, Suite 1200 
Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 
 
130
 
Page 60 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
9.8 Applicable Law.  This Administrative DA is entered into under and pursuant to 
and is to be construed and enforceable in accordance with, the laws of the State of Utah. 
9.9 Rights of Third Parties.  This Administrative DA is not intended to affect or create 
any additional rights or obligations on the part of third parties. 
9.10 Third Party Legal Challenges .  In those instances where, in this Administrative 
DA, Developer has agreed to waive a position with respect to the applicability of current County 
policies and requirements, or where Developer has agreed to comply with current County policies 
and requirements, Developer further agrees not to participate e ither directly or indirectly in any 
legal challenges to such County policies and requirements by third parties, including but not 
limited to appearing as a witness, amicus , making a financial contribution thereto, or otherwise 
assisting in the prosecution of the action. 
9.11 Computation of Time .  Unless otherwise specified, in computing any period of 
time pursuant to this Administrative DA, the day of the act, event or default from which the 
designated period of time begins to run shall be included, and the time shall be computed on a 
calendar, not work-day or business day, basis. 
9.12 Titles and Captions.  All section titles or captions contained in this Administrative 
DA are for convenience only and shall not be deemed part of the context nor affect the 
interpretation hereof. 
9.13 Severability.  If any provision of this Administrative DA or any portion, phase, or 
component of the Residential Project or the P3 Project as approved by the County (the “Severable 
Component”) is (a) challenged in any legal proceeding (including, but not limited to, litigation, 
administrative appeal, or other legal action) , or (b) such legal  challenge results in a final, non -
appealable order, judgment, or decision that invalidates, enjoins, voids, or otherwise prohibits the 
implementation of the Severable Component, then, to the extent permitted by law:  
(i) If the legal challenge is successful, t he invalidation, injunction, or 
prohibition shall apply only to the Severable Component that is the subject 
of the legal challenge, and shall not affect the validity, enforceability, or 
implementation of the remainder of the Residential Project or the P3 
Project, as applicable, or this Administrative DA. 
(ii) The Parties agree that the remainder of this Administrative DA, the 
Residential Project or the P3 P roject, as applicable , and all rights and 
obligations under this Administrative DA relating to the unaffected portions 
of the Residential Project or the P3 Project, as applicable, shall continue in 
full force and effect. 
(iii) In the event that Developer determines that the  legal challenge or the  
invalidation of the Severable Component materially frustrates the purpose 
of this Administrative DA, Developer shall provide notice thereof to the 
County and, within ten (10) days after such notice,  the Parties shall meet 
and confer in good faith  to determine whether this Administrative DA  
should be amended, suspended, or terminated, or whether alternative 
131
 
Page 61 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
arrangements can be made to address the legal challenge, including, without 
limitation, indemnification of Developer against all claims, liability, 
damages, expenses, and attorney’s fees that Developer may incur or sustain 
in connection with, or arising from, the legal challenge or the County’s 
dispute of the legal challenge under subsection 9.13(v) below.  
(iv) If the Parties are unable to agree upon the manner which to address the legal 
challenge pursuant to subsection 9.13(iii) within twenty (20) days after the 
notice delivered pursuant to subsection 9.13(iii), then Developer may 
deliver a notice of termination of this Administrative DA. Upon delivery of 
a notice of termination pursuant to this  subsection 9.13(iv), this 
Administrative DA  shall automatically terminate  whereupon the Parties 
shall have no further rights or obligations under this Administrative DA and 
Section 7.3.7 shall apply. 
(v) Nothing in this Section shall be construed as a waiver of any rights of either 
Party to contest, appeal, or otherwise challenge any legal proceeding or 
order affecting any portion of this Administrative DA, the Residential 
Project, or the P3 Project.  
9.14 Recordation of Agreement.  The County shall record this Administrative DA and 
Exhibits with the Recorder’s Office.  When the Architectural Design Standards are approved in 
accordance with Section [5.6], this Administrative DA and its Exhibits, including the approved 
Architectural Design Standards, shall be re-recorded with the Recorder.  The costs associated with 
these recordings shall be borne by Developer. 
9.15 Recitals and Exhibits Incorporated.  All  Recitals and Exhibits A-F to the P3 
Project and the Residential Project are incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. 
9.16 Execution of Agreement.  This Administrative DA may be signed in counterparts 
and each such counterpart shall constitute an original document. All such counterparts, taken 
together, shall constitute one and the same instrument.  Any signature on this Administrative DA 
transmitted by facsimile, electronically in PDF format, or by other generally accepted means of 
conveying digital signatures (e.g. DocuSign) shall be deemed an original signature for all purposes 
and the exchange of copies of this Administrative DA and of signature pages by any such 
transmission, or by a combination of such means, shall constitute effective execution and delivery 
of this Administrative DA as to the Parties and may be used in lieu of the original for all purposes.  
9.17 Performance.  Each Party, person and/or entity governed by this Administrative 
DA shall perform its respective obligations under this Administrative DA in a manner that will not 
unreasonably or materially delay, disrupt, or inconvenience any other Party, person and/or entity 
governed by this Administrative DA, the development of any portion of the PC Junction Property 
or the P3 Project or the issuance of final plats, certificates of occupancy, or other approvals 
associated therewith. This section shall not be construed to require a Party or its representatives to 
provide an approval contrary to Land Use Laws, regulations, or this Administrative DA. 
132
 
Page 62 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Administrative DA has been executed by Summit County, 
acting by and through the County Manager, and by duly authorized representatives of Developer 
and HVT as of the above-stated date. 
[signatures to follow] 
 
 
133
 
Page 63 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
[SUMMIT COUNTY SIGNATURE PAGE] 
 
      SUMMIT COUNTY: 
 
      By:  Summit County Manager 
 
 
      _________________________________________ 
      Shayne C. Scott 
      County Manager 
 
 
 
STATE OF UTAH          ) 
                                         :  ss. 
COUNTY OF SUMMIT) 
 
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this ____ day of 
_______________________, 202_, by Shayne C. Scott, the Summit County Manager. 
  
NOTARY PUBLIC 
Residing at:   
My Commission Expires: 
_____________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM: 
 
SUMMIT COUNTY ATTORNEY 
 
 
By: _____________________________ 
 David L. Thomas 
 Chief Civil Deputy 
  
134
 
Page 64 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
[DEVELOPER SIGNATURE PAGE] 
Developer: 
Park City Junction, LLC, 
a Utah limited liability company 
 
By:      
Print Name:     
Title:      
 
STATE OF  ) 
 :  ss. 
COUNTY OF ) 
 
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this ____ day of 
_______________________, 202_, by ____________________, the ____________________ of 
Park City Junction, LLC, a Utah limited liability company. 
  
NOTARY PUBLIC 
Residing at:   
My Commission Expires: 
_____________________ 
  
135
 
Page 65 of 65 
4936-1174-3798 
[HIGH VALLEY TRANSIT DISTRICT CONSENT SIGNATURE PAGE] 
HVT’S CONSENT: 
 
HVT hereby consents and agrees to the portion of the Richins Parcel owned by HVT being 
subjected to this Administrative DA and the other obligations of HVT set forth in this 
Administrative DA. 
HIGH VALLEY TRANSIT DISTRICT: 
Board of Trustees 
 
 
________________________________________ 
Kim Carson, Board Chair 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
_________________________________ 
David Geffen 
Board Secretary 
[seal] 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM: 
 
SUMMIT COUNTY ATTORNEY 
 
 
By: _____________________________ 
 David L. Thomas 
 General Counsel 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
136
 
A-1 
4936-1174-3798 
EXHIBIT A-1 
TO 
ADMINISTRATIVE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT 
Legal Description of P3 Project 
All of Lot 402, and portions of Lots 401 and 404, Park City Tech Center Lot 4 Subdivision, 
according to the official Plat thereof on file and of record in the Summit County Recorder’s 
Office. 
 
All of Lot 5B, Park City Tech Center Lot 5 Subdivision, according to the official Plat thereof on 
file and of record in the Summit County Recorder’s Office. 
 
All of Lot 1, Summit County Property Subdivision, according to the official Plat thereof on file 
and of record in the Summit County Recorder’s Office. 
 
Parcel Tax Identification Numbers: 
 
PCTC401-AM-X 
PCTC402-AM 
PCTC404-AM 
PCTC-5B-AM 
SCPS-1-X 
 
137
 
A-2 
4936-1174-3798 
EXHIBIT A-2 
TO 
ADMINISTRATIVE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT 
P3 Project Master Plan 
 
 
 
  
138
 
A-3 
4936-1174-3798 
EXHIBIT A-3 
TO 
ADMINISTRATIVE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT 
P3 Project Massing Parameters 
In addition to the P3 Project Architectural Design Standards to be set forth in Exhibit [A-4], the 
following additional parameters shall apply to the P3 Podium area:  
1. Setbacks:  
a. Minimum 100-foot setback off the SR 224 right-of-way (exceptions to be 
approved by the County Manager). 
b. Minimum 25-foot setback off Ute and Landmark from property line. 
2. Height and Massing 
a. Retail floor-to-deck heights to be 15’-25’ feet high. 
b. Residential maximum of 4 stories or 48’ feet above Plaza deck (See Exhibit D for 
height regulations), inclusive of ground floor retail where applicable.  
c. Office maximum of 3 stories or 48’ feet above Plaza deck (See Exhibit D for 
height regulations), inclusive of ground floor retail where applicable.   
d. Parking Structure to be no more than 3 stories and primarily subterranean at the 
northwest corner, becoming further exposed as grade falls towards the east and 
south. The number of parking stalls will be determined in the design phase. The 
targeted number of parking stalls is 1,050.   
3. Step backs 
a. Along SR 224, a 15-foot step back, from the edge of the podium, is required at no 
more than 25’ of height, excluding railings, from the plaza deck.   
4. Plaza Parameters 
a. Shall be constructed to connect to the anticipated UDOT provided pedestrian 
bridge.   
b. To design shall accommodate a future gondola terminal and cable run through the 
plaza running east / west.   
139
 
A-3 
4936-1174-3798 
 
 
Figure A-3.1 - Conceptual Massing of the P3 Podium Area  
 
The following parameters shall apply to the P3 Project areas that are not part of the P3 Podium 
area (above) including the Medical Facility, Senior Living Facility, Commercial, and Workforce 
Housing.  
1. Grades  
a. Fill shall be limited to 15 feet on downhill slopes of buildings, unless approved 
through Final Site Plan process.  
b. For buildings located along Primary Streetscapes, shown in Figure A-3.2, the level 1, 
or ground floor, finish floor height shall be no more than 5’ higher than the adjacent 
pedestrian walkway.  
c. Buildings that meet the condition in 1b, having finish floor higher than the 
pedestrian walkway, may include up to 5’ of exposed foundation, which shall not be 
included in the total building height calculation as shown in Figure A-3.3. The 
exposed foundation shall meet the requirements in the Architectural Design 
Standards, which will require 
finishes that integrated with the 
surrounding facade.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure A-3.2 - Primary Streetscapes – P3 Project 
140
 
A-3 
4936-1174-3798 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Setbacks 
a. The north side of tech center drive shall include a setback sufficient to 
accommodate a future gondola line.   
b. At Primary Streetscapes, the maximum setback from the pedestrian walkway shall 
generally be 10’; however, certain uses, such as an assisted living center or a 
medical facility, may require entrance drop off zones and significant accessible 
parking near the entrance of the facility, therefore, in such instances, the buidling 
setback may be increased as reasonably necessary.  
c. The minimum setback from the property line at roadways not identified as 
Primary Streetscapes is 10’.             
3. Building Heights 
a. Building heights for multifamily attached buildings are limited to 4 stories and 45 
feet from the adjacent finished grade. If at least one of the stories includes a 
concrete parking structure, the height may be increased to 50’ feet.  Single family 
attached buildings are limited to 3 stories, or 35 feet from the adjacent finished 
grade.       
b. Double loaded residential buildings, where the depth of the residential building 
has separate residential units on the uphill and downhill sides of a slope, may step 
the depth of the building with grade, up to 1 level higher or lower, so that both the 
uphill and downhill sides are 45’ from adjacent grade. The step down shall occur 
at the same depth of the top floor residential unit, but no less than 25 feet unless 
approved through the Site Plan approval process as shown in Figure A-3.4. 
c. Where grades fall along the side of a building, it is permissible to expose up to 5’ 
of its foundation, subject to the finishes required in the Architectural Guidelines, 
which will not be counted as part of the building height. Exposed foundations 
areas should not exceed more than 30% of any side of the building.  
 
4. Other 
a. At Primary Streetscapes, buildings shall have entrances facing the street or if 
there is not a building entrance, at least 50% of individual residential units that 
face street shall have street facing entrances. 
 
 
 
 
Figure A-3.3 - Primary Street Setback and Height Parameters 
 
141
 
A-3 
4936-1174-3798 
 
 
 
 
Figure A-3.4, Double Loaded Residential Step Down 
142
 
A-4 
4936-1174-3798 
EXHIBIT A-4 
TO 
ADMINISTRATIVE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT 
Architectural Design Standards for P3 Project 
(To be included upon approval through the process set forth in Section 5.6) 
143
 
B-1 
4936-1174-3798 
EXHIBIT B-1 
TO 
ADMINISTRATIVE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT 
Legal Description of Residential Project 
All of Lot 403, and portions of Lot 404, Park City Tech Center Lot 4 Subdivision, according to 
the official Plat thereof on file and of record in the Summit County Recorder’s Office. 
 
Parcel Tax Identification Numbers: 
 
PCTC403-AM 
PCTC404-AM 
 
  
144
 
B-2 
4936-1174-3798 
EXHIBIT B-2 
TO 
ADMINISTRATIVE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT 
Residential Project Master Plan 
 
145
 
B-3 
4936-1174-3798 
EXHIBIT B-3 
TO 
ADMINISTRATIVE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT 
Residential Project Massing Parameters 
1. Building Massing 
a. Multifamily attached for rent apartment buildings (Apartment Building): Apartment 
buildings in the Residential Project will generally include no more than 36 
Residential Units per building. Developer may include more than 36 units in a 
building if Developer demonstrates that the human experience from the road and/or 
walkway aligns with the intent of the Residential Project Master Plan.    
b. Multifamily attached for sale units (Condo Building): The Condo Building(s) may 
contain up to 80 units within a building structure.    
c. Single family attached units will be in attached groupings of no more than 8 units 
unless approved through the Final Site Plan process.  
  
2. Grades  
a. Conceptual sections across grade are shown in Figure B-3.4. This figure 
demonstrates intent of building placement in relation to grade.       
b. Fill shall be limited to 15 feet on downhill slopes of buildings, unless approved 
through Final Site Plan process.  
c. For buildings located along Primary Streetscapes, shown in Figure B-3.1, the level 1, 
or ground floor, finish floor height shall be no more than 5’ higher than the adjacent 
pedestrian walkway.  
d. Buildings that meet the condition in 2c, having finish floor higher than the pedestrian 
walkway, may include up to 
5’ of exposed foundation 
which shall not be included 
in the total building height 
calculation as shown in 
Figure B-3.2. The exposed 
foundation shall meet the 
requirements in the 
Architectural Design 
Standards, which will require 
finishes that integrated with 
the surrounding facade.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Figure B-3.1 - Primary Streetscapes – Residential Project 
146
 
B-3 
4936-1174-3798 
3. Setbacks 
a. The north side of tech center drive shall include a setback sufficient to 
accommodate a future gondola line.   
b. At Primary Streetscapes, the maximum setback from the pedestrian walkway shall 
be 10’. 
c. The minimum setback from the property line for roadways not identified as 
Primary Streetscapes is 10’.             
4. Building Heights 
a. Building heights for 
multifamily attached 
building(s) are limited 
to 4 stories and 45 feet 
from the adjacent 
finished grade. If at 
least one of the stories 
includes a concrete 
parking structure, the height may 
be increased to 50’ feet.  Single 
family attached buildings are limited to 3 stories, or 35 feet from the adjacent 
finished grade. 
b. Double loaded residential buildings, where the depth of the residential building 
has separate residential units on the uphill and downhill sides of a slope, may step 
the depth of the building with grade, up to 1 level higher or lower, so that both the 
uphill and downhill sides are 45’ from adjacent grade. The step down shall occur 
at the same depth of the top floor residential unit, but no less than 25 feet unless 
approved through the Site Plan approval process as shown in Figure B-3.3.         
c. Where grades fall along the side of a building, it is permissible to expose up to 5’ 
of its foundation, subject to the finishes required in the Architectural Guidelines, 
which will not be counted as part of the building height. Exposed foundations 
areas should not exceed more than 30% of any side of the building.  
5. Other 
a. At Primary Streetscapes, buildings shall have entrances facing the street or if 
there is not a building entrance, at least 50% of individual units that face street 
shall have street facing entrances. 
 
 
Figure B-3.3, - Primary Street Setback and Height Parameters 
Figure B-3.3, Double Loaded Residential Step Down 
147
 
B-3 
4936-1174-3798 
 
*Sections show floor-to-floor massing only and does not include parapets or sloped roofs.   
Figure B-3.4 - Conceptual Sections 
148
 
B-4 
4936-1174-3798 
EXHIBIT B-4 
TO 
ADMINISTRATIVE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT 
Architectural Design Standards for Residential Project 
(To be included upon approval through the process set forth in Section 5.6) 
 
  
149
 
C 
4936-1174-3798 
EXHIBIT C 
TO 
ADMINISTRATIVE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT 
Traffic Mitigation Measures 
Developer shall ensure completion of the following proposed traffic mitigation and transit 
improvements. 
1. If required in connection with each Project Area or Final Site Plan, appropriate bus or 
transit access by creating bus pull-outs, shelters, and bike racks. 
 
2. If reasonably required for the HVT service plan in connection with the approval of the 
Final Site Plan for any portion of the P3 Project or Residential Project, cooperate in the 
construction of necessary transit lanes on east side of Landmark Drive and on roads within 
the P3 Project or Residential Project.  
3. Developer will dedicate, at no cost to the County, de minimis portions of the PC Junction 
Property for rights -of-way required to complete the UDOT Project, provided that the 
dedications will not reduce the Vested Densities or require the relocation of any 
improvements or Project Areas, including as shown on the P3 Project Master Plan or the 
Residential Project Master Plan. 
  
150
 
D 
4936-1174-3798 
EXHIBIT D 
TO 
ADMINISTRATIVE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT 
Height Standards 
1. Building Height:  Building Height is established as Maximum Building Height (Elevation 
- ASL) and means the maximum elevation above sea level (ASL) specified on the P3 
Project Massing Parameters and the Residential Project Massing Parameters.   
1.1 The following exceptions to Maximum Building Height (Elevation – ASL) are 
allowed:   
a. Antennas, chimneys, flues, vents, and similar structures may extend up to 
five feet (5’ -0”) above the allowed Maximum Building Height to comply 
with requirements of the International Building Code (IBC). 
b.  Appurtenances for mechanical equipment and associated screening, when 
enclosed or screened, may extend up to eight feet (8’-0”) above the allowed 
Maximum Building Height. 
c.  An Elevator Penthouse may extend up to eight feet (8’ -0”) above the 
allowed Maximum Building Height to comply with requirements of the 
International Building Code (IBC). 
d.  A Stair Penthouse may extend up to ten feet (10’ -0”) above the allowed 
Maximum Building Height to comply with requirements of the 
International Building Code (IBC). 
e.  Sloped roofs with a pitch may extend up to twelve feet (12’ -0”) above the 
allowed Maximum Building Height for all other parcels. 
f.  Roof top patios and awnings, common areas, sitting areas, decks, and 
similar space, including covered stairways and an Elevator Penthouse 
providing access to the roof top.  The Elevator Penthouse is limited to 
fourteen feet (14’-0”) above the roof deck. 
g.  Roof top equipment for the purposes of ‘Green Initiatives’ such as solar 
panels, rainwater harvesting tanks, etc. may extend to ten feet (10’ -0”) 
above the allowed Maximum Building Height.  
 
151
 
E 
4936-1174-3798 
EXHIBIT E 
TO 
ADMINISTRATIVE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT 
Amenities and Benefits Package 
Developer agrees to provide or participate in the amenities and community benefits as 
follows:  
1. $300,000 contribution to Underpass (converted to participation in the Betterment 
of the Pedestrian Bridge, subject to the Developer Maximum) (Section [4.4.4]) 
2. P3 Public Plaza construction and financing (Section [4.3.2]) 
3. P3 Parking Structure, serving as a park and ride transit capture lot, construction and 
financing (Section [4.3.3]) 
4. P3 Pedestrian Bridge participation (Section [4.3.4]) 
5. P3 Park and Amphitheater construction and financing (Section [4.3.5]) 
6. Richins Parcel donation (Section [4.4.1]) 
7. P3 Transit Center property exchange (Section [4.3.6]) 
8. Traffic Mitigation Measures (Section [4.3.10] and Exhibit C) 
9. Bus or Transit Shelters as may be required by HVT service plan   
10. Trails (Section [4.4.3.1]) 
11. Sustainability (Sections [4.4.5] and [4.3.11]) 
a. Public and Private electric vehicle (EV) stations with each phase and/or 
parcel project  
b. Design elements  
c. Carbon and Electrification Plan to achieve carbon neutrality  
d. Sustainable building elements includes (but is not limited to): 
i. High Reflectivity Roofing (reflecting radiant heat, not light) and/or 
green roofing 
 ii. Rain Screens (developer may choose but not required) 
iii.  Performance Fenestration (low emissivity, low solar heat gain 
coefficient, low reflective glass, and low u-factor). 
152
 
E 
4936-1174-3798 
  iv. Continuous Air Barrier (reduces conditioned air leakage) 
  v. Soil Gas Mitigation (vapor retarder and slab ventilation) 
vi. Insulation (spray foam at rim joists, parapets, and other concealed 
spaces).  
vii. Mechanical Ventilation which supports sustainability 
viii. Efficient Lighting (LED Fixtures) and lighting control 
ix. Rapid garage doors for multi-family parking garage entrances when 
heated (for large parking structures). 
 e. Sustainable Landscaping which includes (but is not limited to): 
i. Permeable surfaces in strategic locations and bioretention 
  ii. Sand and Tree Filters 
  iii. Underground Filtration and Rain Gardens 
iv. Vegetated buffers and naturalized stormwater channels and 
retention. 
  v.  Minimization of turf grasses. 
  vi. Drip irrigation systems using moisture control sensors. 
vii. Permitted plant materials subject to Utah State University Summit 
County Plant List. 
12. Inclusive Community Space (Section [4.4.3.2]) 
 a. Trail Access and wayfinding 
b. Pedestrian and Bike Friendly pathways and bike racks within each parcel or 
project. 
 c. Access to Transit 
 d. Greenways, Pocket Parks, and Community Plaza 
13. Workforce Housing Units (Section [4.4.2]), totaling 500 units 
14. Senior Living Facility (Section [4.4.2]) 
153
 
4936-1174-3798 
EXHIBIT F 
TO 
ADMINISTRATIVE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT 
Network of Programmed Open Spaces 
 
154
MINUTES
SUMMIT COUNTY
Snyderville Basin Planning Commission Meeting
RICHINS AUDITORIUM
1885 W. UTE BLVD., PARK CITY, UT, 84098
TUESDAY, JUNE 24, 2025
Meeting also conducted via Zoom.
Draft
Tyann Mooney
Makena Hawley
Matthew Nagie
Spencer Young
Tim Jeffrey
Heather Peteroy
Justin Keyes
Lynda Viti
Jennifer Strader
Laura Kuhrmeyer
Amir Caus
Amanda Curtis
Melissa Mendez
Brian Craven
Michael Anderson
Tucker Bryne
 
Welcome/Attendance
Regular Session (6:00 p.m.)
1) Public comment for items not on the agenda or pending
applications. (6:01 p.m.)
Commission Chair Mooney opened the meeting for public comment at
6:01 p.m.
155
No one appeared.
Commission Chair Mooney closed the meeting for public comment at
6:01 p.m.
2) Public hearing and recommendation to the County Manager
regarding the proposed Warehouse Condominiums Unit C
Amended. Administrative Process. Project #25-077. Laura
Kuhrmeyer, County Planner. (6:01 p.m.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Project 25-077 Warehouse Unit C Amendment Staff Report
and Exhibits SBPC 6.24.25
Planner Laura Kuhrmeyer presented the proposal for the Warehouse
Condominiums Unit C Project #25-077. (6:03 p.m.)
Commission Chair Mooney opened the meeting for public hearing at
6:05 p.m. 
No one appeared.
Commission Chair Mooney closed the meeting for public hearing at 6:05
p.m.
Commission Chair Mooney commented on the parking. Planner
Kuhrmeyer and Attorney Justin Keyes responded. (6:05 p.m.)
Commissioner Peteroy asked a question about zoning and access to
Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU). Planner Kuhrmeyer responded. (6:07
p.m.)
Makena Hawley made a motion to forward a positive
recommendation to the County Manager for the proposed
Warehouse Condominiums Unit C Amended pursuant to the
finding of fact, conclusions of laws, and conditions of approval
found in the staff report. (6:08 p.m.). Spencer Young seconded, and
all voted in favor, (6-0).
3) Public hearing and recommendation to the County Manager
regarding the proposed Park East II Business Community
Condominiums Unit 42 Amended. The purpose of the amendment
is to add a level, between the existing first level and existing roof,
to Unit 42 of Park East II Business Community Condominiums.
Administrative Process. Project #25-078.Laura Kuhrmeyer, County
Planner. (6:09 p.m.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Project 25-078 Park East 2 Unit 42 Amendment Staff
Report and Exhibits 6.24.25
Planner Laura Kuhrmeyer presented the proposal for Park East ll
Business Community Condominiums Unit 42 Amended. Project #25-
078. (6:09 p.m.)
156
Commissioner Heather Peteroy asked about zoning and multi-level
buildings. Planner Kuhrmeyer and Attorney Justin Keyes responded.
(6:11 p.m.)
Commission Chair Mooney opened the meeting for public hearing at
6:13 p.m.
No one appeared.
Commission Chair Mooney closed the meeting for public hearing at 6:13
p.m.
Spencer Young made a motion to refer forward a positive
recommendation to the County Manager for Unit 42 of Park East II
Business Community Condominiums according to the finding of
fact, conclusions of laws, and conditions of approval found in the
staff report. (6:14 p.m.). Matthew Nagie seconded, and all voted in
favor, (6-0).
4) Public hearing and action regarding the Low Impact Permit for a
10,945 sq. ft. retail/office building on Lot 6 of the Quarry Junction
at Pinebrook Subdivision, located at 8211 Gorgoza Pines Road,
Pinebrook, Summit County, UT; Parcel QJPB-A-6-1AM; Applicant:
Michael Anderson, CORE Architecture representing Clover Farms
LLC (Christian Vaccari); Administrative Process. Project #25-070.
Amir Caus, AICP, Senior Planner. (6:14 p.m.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Quarry Village_2 - Photo 2
Attachment: Quarry Village_3 - Photo 3
Attachment: Quarry Village_4 - Photo 4
Attachment: Quarry Village Lot 6 Commercial Shell LIP Staff Report -
June 24, 2025 SBPC.pdf
Amir Caus, AICP Senior Planner, and Michael Anderson, Principle
Architect, CORE Architecture, presented a low-impact permit application
at Quarry Junction. (6:15 p.m.)
Commissioner Makena Hawley asked about the possibility of potential
businesses promoting livability and community. Senior Planner Caus
responded. (6:16 p.m.)
Commissioner Young asked a question about parking and green
space. Senior Planner Caus and Principle Architect Michael Anderson
responded. (6:18 p.m.)
Commissioner Tim Jeffrey asked a question about Architectural design
and how that aligns with the development code. Senior Planner Caus
and Principle Architect Michael Anderson responded. (6:21 p.m.)
Commissioner Matthew Nagie asked for clarification on "and that the
commission make a recommendation on architecture land scape plans."
157
What does that look like? Senior Planner Caus and Principle Architect
Michael Anderson responded. (6:27 p.m.)
Commissioner Heather Peteroy wondered what the intent was for the
buildings being added to the community to assimilate with the
community in terms of shape and color, with a mountain feel. Senior
Planner Caus and Principle Architect Michael Anderson responded.
(6:28 p.m.)
Commission Chair Mooney opened the meeting for public hearing at
6:37 p.m.
No one appeared.
Commission Chair Mooney closed the meeting for public hearing at 6:37
p.m.
Commissioner Young asked how this project could support Jeremy
Ranch and Pinebrook. What types of offices and retail would work well
there? Principle Architect Michael Anderson responded. (6:37 p.m.)
Commissioner Tyann Mooney commented on parking and
recommended adding more mountain stone and materials to provide a
mountain feel. Senior Planner Caus and Principle Architect Michael
Anderson responded. (6:31 p.m.)
Tim Jeffrey made a motion to make a recommendation to the
Community Development Director that the architecture follow the
neighborhood this is going into, as opposed to a box look. (6:41
p.m.). Makena Hawley seconded, and all voted in favor, (5-0).
5) Public hearing and action regarding a Conditional Use Permit for a
~4,482 sq. ft. Major Accessory Building located at 1543 E Crescent
Drive, Silver Creek Estates Unit A; Parcel SL-A-77. Applicant:
Tucker Byrne. Owner: Tucker Byrne. Administrative Review.
Project # 25-082.
Amanda Curtis, County Planner. (6:43 p.m.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: 25-082 SBPC Presentation
Attachment: Quarry Village_1 - Photo 1
Attachment: 25-082 Tucker Byrne Staff Report.pdf
Planner Amanda Curtis presented a Conditional Use Permit for a Major
Accessory Building in Silver Creek Estates Unit A. (6:44 p.m.)
Commission Chair Mooney asked for a history of the lot. Planner Curtis
and Owner Tucker Byrne responded. (6:45 p.m.)
Commissioner Makena Hawley asked about public comment. Planner
Curtis responded. (6:47 p.m.)
158
Commissioner Matthew Nagie asked Planner Curtis to expand on the
code requirements for project #25-082 and how this code relates to the
future building in this plan. Is there a better way to tie these two builds
together? Planner Curtis and Jennifer Strader responded. (6:48 p.m.)
Commissioner Heather Peteroy asked if that would limit the owner’s
ability to live on the property until the second building or primary house
is built. (6:53 p.m.)
Commission Chair Mooney opened the meeting for public hearing at
6:56 p.m.
David Christensen was asked to speak.
Commission Chair Mooney closed the meeting for public hearing at 6:56
p.m.
Principle Planner Jennifer Strader and Attorney Lynda Viti responded to
Commissioner Nagie’s question. (6:59 p.m.)
Matthew Nagie made a motion to approve the Conditional Use
Permit at 1543 E Crescent Drive with the condition of approval that
a certificate of occupancy for a potential future primary residence
has to be given prior to this major accessory building being
designated as such according to the findings of fact, conclusions
of law, and conditions of approval found in the staff report. (7:02
p.m.). Makena Hawley seconded, and all voted in favor, (6-0).
6) Approval of Minutes: June 10, 2025. (7:03 p.m.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Draft SBPC Minutes 06.10.25.pdf
Spencer Young made a motion to approve 6) Approval of Minutes:
June 10, 2025. (7:03 p.m.). Tim Jeffrey seconded, and all voted in
favor, (5-0).
Commission Items (7:03 p.m.)
Commissioner Matthew Nagie asked that all commissioners respond to
administrative emails about attendance. Commissioner Chair Mooney and
Jennifer Strader responded. (7:04 p.m.)
Commissioner Makena Hawley highlighted the link between transportation and
accessibility and proposed integrating them with land use planning.
Commission Chair Mooney suggested a work session with High Valley Transit
and Regional Transportation Planning Director Carl Miller. Commissioner
Peteroy expressed interest in learning about the processes, and Jennifer
Strader and Lynda Viti provided responses. (7:07 p.m.)
Director Items (7:21 p.m.)
Jennifer Strader, Principal Planner, provided an overview of agenda items for
upcoming meetings. (7:21 p.m.)
159
Adjournment (7:22 p.m.)
Tyann Mooney made a motion to adjourn. Spencer Young seconded, and
all voted in favor, (6-0).
 
160