1.
Work Session for a proposed Amendment to the Utah Olympic Park Specially
Planned Area Development Agreement, Parcels 
PP-63-A, PP-62-3-UAF, KJS-6-
1AM, PP-62-KJS, PP-62-4, and PP-62-KJS, located in
 Summit County, Utah.
 Applicant: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation (UOLF). Project #25-111.
Laura Kuhrmeyer, County Planner.
1.
Public comment for items not on the agenda or pending applications.
2.
Public hearing and possible action regarding a Conditional Use Permit for a 5,710
square foot 
Major Accessory Building;
 4865 N 400 W, Park City; Parcel PP-87-8.
Applicant: Rosemary Stum, Lloyd Architecture. Owner: Nathan Wright.
Administrative Process. Project #25-067. 
Jennifer Leslie, County Planner.
 
3.
Public hearing and possible action regarding a Subdivision Plat Amendment to
amend a building envelope on Lot 303A of the Timberline No. 3 Subdivision; 4922
Ponderosa Dr; Parcel TL-3-A-303A-AM. Applicant: Tyler York. Owner: Bitchby LLC.
Administrative Review. Project #25-131. 
Jennifer Leslie, County Planner.
4.
Public hearing and possible action regarding a Conditional Use Permit for a 999
square foot Accessory Dwelling Unit proposed on the third floor of Unit 3 of the
Altitude Loft Condominiums; 4123 N Forestdale Dr #3; Parcel ALTLC-3; Applicant:
Molly Guinan, Elliott Workgroup
. Owner: Altitude 3 LLC. Administrative Review.
Project #24-128. 
Jennifer Leslie, County Planner.
AGENDA 
SNYDERVILLE BASIN PLANNING COMMISSION 
Tuesday, August 26, 2025
NOTICE is hereby given that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission will meet
electronically, via Zoom, and at the anchor location of Richins Auditorium
1885 W. Ute Blvd., Park City, UT 84098
(All times listed are general in nature, and are subject to change by the Board Chair)
 
You may attend in person or
 
Join Zoom webinar:
https://summitcountyut.zoom.us/j/98189226475  
OR
To listen by phone only: Dial 1-669-900-9128 or 1-253-215-8782, Webinar ID: 981 8922 6475 
 
4:30 P.M. Work Session
 
Project #25-111 UOP DA Amendment SBPC 8.26.25 WS Report and exhibits
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
 
 
Wright Barn CUP Staff Report
 
Timberline Plat Amendment Staff Report
1
5.
Public hearing and possible recommendation to the Community Development
Director regarding a Low Impact Permit for a 5,322sf commercial structure on Lot 9
of the Quarry Junction at Pinebrook Subdivision; 
3246 Santa Fe Rd; Parcel QJPB-A-
9-1AM. Applicant: Chad Bollman, J. Ford Construction. Owner: RJ Ford Properties
LLC. Administrative Process. Project #25-127.
Jennifer Leslie, County Planner.
6.
Approval of Minutes: August 12, 2025
Altitude Loft Unit 3 ADU CUP Staff Report
 
Quarry Junction Lot 9 LIP Staff Report
 
Draft SBPC Minutes 08.12.25.pdf
Commission Items
Director Items
Adjourn
To view staff reports available at the end of the Friday before the meeting please visit
www.summitcounty.org.
 
Individuals needing special accommodations pursuant to the Americans with Disabilities Act regarding this meeting may
contact Vicki Geary, Summit County Community Development Department at (435)336-3123.
2
 
WORK SESSION 
 
To:   Snyderville Basin Planning Commission   
From:   Laura Kuhrmeyer, County Planner 
Date of Meeting: August 26, 2025 
Type of Item: Development Agreement Amendment 
Process:  Work Session 
File #:   25-111 
 
 
Project Description 
Project Name: Utah Olympic Park Specially Planned Area Development 
Agreement 4th Amended 
Applicant(s): Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation (c/o Colin Hilton) 
Property Owner(s): Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation 
Location: 3419 Olympic Parkway  
Zone District: Resort Center (RC)  
Parcel Number and Size: PP-63-A (254.40 acres), PP-62-3-UAF (2.00 acres),                          
KJS-6-1AM (3.00 acres), PP-62-KJS (5.20 acres),                                
PP-62-4 (3.00 acres), and PP-62-KJS (11.31 acres) 
Type of Process: Specially Planned Area Development Agreement Amendment 
Final Land Use Authority: Summit County Council (Council) 
 
Proposal 
The applicant, Colin Hilton, is requesting several amendments to the Utah Olympic Park Specially 
Planned Area Development Agreement (DA). The applicant’s written description of the proposal 
is attached as Exhibit 1, the redlined Development Agreement is attached as Exhibit 4, and a 
clean version of the proposed amendments is attached as Exhibit 5. 
 
Staff has also included a summary outline of the proposed changes as Exhibit 2. There are five 
primary changes proposed: 
1. Replacing the Final Site Plan with a Master Conceptual Site Plan that shows all existing 
buildings in their as-built locations and planned areas of future development. 
2. Rearranging the parcels shown on the original Final Site Plan. 
3. Modifying the Land Use & Zoning Chart 1 to adjust the maximum building height, 
maximum gross floor area, and principal uses for several parcels. 
4. Modifying the Land Use & Zoning Chart 2 to move three uses (Hotel, Inn; Ski Lift, New; 
and Ski Run; New) from Conditional to Low Impact. 
5. Modifying the way that Affordable Athlete and Workforce Housing Units are calculated. 
 
3
 
With the proposed modifications, t he total potential floor area including all existing and any 
potential future buildings would be  approximately 237,673 square feet.  This is a decrease in 
approximately 57,842 square feet of gross building area for the site. 
 
Vicinity Map 
 
 
Background 
The Utah Olympic Park (UOP) Specially Planned Area (SPA) designation and rezone was 
approved by the Council on March 14, 2012. The UOP includes more than 400 acres and is 
located on the hillside west of Highway 224. The UOP was the site of many of the 2002 Olympic 
events, though construction began on the project in 1991. 
 
Process for Amending the DA  
The DA outlines a process for a substantial amendment and a process for an administrative 
amendment as shown below. Due to the various proposed changes, Staff finds that the 
proposed amendment falls under the substantial amendment process.  
 
4
Standards 
According to Development Code 10-3-11(C)(6), in making a recommendation for approval of 
the DA amendment, the SBPC must find that the proposal meets all of the below standards: 
Standard 1: Circumstances relevant to the request have changed or were unknown at the 
time of the original SPA plan approval.  
Standard 2: The modification will not otherwise alter any of the findings required for the 
approval of the original SPA.  
Standard 3: The modification is generally consistent with the efficient development and 
preservation of the entire SPA Plan.  
Standard 4: The modification does not affect in a substantially adverse manner either the 
enjoyment of land abutting upon or in the general vicinity of the property in question.  
Standard 5: The public health, safety and general welfare are not adversely impaired by the 
modification.   
Recommendation 
Staff requests that the Planning Commission provide the Applicant and staff with initial 
comments on the proposed amendments and specify what, if any, additional information would 
be beneficial to assist the Commission making a recommendation to County Council at a future 
meeting. 
Attachments 
Exhibit 1: Written Description 
Exhibit 2: Summary Outline of Proposed Amendments 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
Exhibit 5: Clean Proposed DA 4th Amended 
5
Utah Olympic Park Specially Planned Area Development Agreement Amendment 
Written Description of Proposal  
Approved in 2013 and extended in 2023, the Specially Planned Area for the Utah Olympic Park (“Park”) 
included a Master Plan intended to be updated over time. With the recent award of the 2034 Winter 
Games and an updated 10-year Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation (UOLF) Strategic Plan with Utah 
Olympic Park (UOP) updated Conceptual Master Plan, UOLF has submitted an application to amend the 
Development Agreement to reflect the latest strategic initiatives of UOLF, and more specifically the 
Utah Olympic Park.  
The UOLF sees the execution of the updated Master Plan at the UOP as a very critical component to 
ensure that the UOP can continue to provide world-class training and educational opportunities to 
athletes and the greater community. Broadly speaking, UOLF has the following long-term venue goals: 
• Create Financially Sustainable Sport & Community Uses of Olympic & Paralympic Venues
• Inspire Utahns to be Active in Sport & Physical Activity
• Maintain World Class Venues / Facilities
• Engage the community and visitors alike in unique facility offerings
UOLF also has the following specific UOP Financial Objectives that were reviewed with the County in 
2013. They were important back then, and just as important today given our very challenging 
subsidized program and venue cost dynamic. 
Increase Legacy Foundation revenues and control expenses by… 
1 |  Growing Public Program Revenues 
2 |  Advancing Fundraising & Strategic Partner Financial Support 
3 |  Promoting effective Land Planning & New Building Uses at Utah Olympic Park 
And always look to …. 
4 |  Reducing costs through creating efficiencies & reprioritizing budget needs 
Relating to point #3 above, UOLF created the following “Development Purpose” for any new 
construction under the UOP L-T Master Plan: 
• Promote More Activity - Proactively increase Public & Sport Uses of the Olympic Park. Further
enhance and add to our unique offerings.
• Create an added revenue streams through smart development - Lowering the dependence on
the UOLF Legacy Fund earnings to cover UOP operating subsidies. UOP’s current net operating
loss is approximately ($2.5m)/year.
• Ensure the Olympic Park stays in existence in perpetuity, under an independent 501C3
Foundation, not run by State or Local Gov’t .
• Create a Dynamic Sports & Recreation Campus
• Build additional facilities & services that support & complement Olympic & Paralympic Winter
Sport Facilities & Programs
Exhibit 1: Written Description
6
The applicant proposes to modify the following sections accordingly, in addition to correcting 
typos, scrivener’s errors, and general clean up throughout the document. 
1. Article 1: Definitions
a. Add a statement clarifying that any term not defined in the DA shall default to the
definition in the Snyderville Basin Development Code.
b. Add several terms with definitions including but not limited to: Affordable Athlete
and Workforce Housing Unit (AAWHU); Athlete and Workforce Housing Unit
(AWHU); Athlete Support Facilities; Hotel, Inn; Hotel, Room; Hotel, Suite; Multi -
Family Dwelling Unit; Ridgeline Structure; Ski Lifts, New; Ski Lift Replacement; Ski
Run, New; Ski Run, Replacement.
c. Modify existing definitions for several terms, including the term “Final Site Plan.”
2. Article 4: Approvals/Phased Development of the Project
a. Identify which Exhibits from the original DA are being amended.
3. Article 6: Fees and Mitigations
a. Remove 6.3 (Rational Nexus Test) – Staff finds that the case law changes and that
it would be best to determine whether fees are reasonable based on whatever
case law or statute requires at the time the fee is imposed.
b. Add additional language to 6.3.1 to identify Tax Increment Financing, Public
Infrastructure Districts, Special Service Districts, and Political Subdivisions of the
State to the list of land designations that could help Utah Athletic Foundation in
its long-term sustainable efforts.
c. Add 6.4.4. to designate the UOP as a “Major Sporting Event Venue” pursuant to
SB333, 2025 General Legislative Session.
4. Article 10: General Terms and Conditions
a. Add a table to 10.5 that includes all previous extensions with their Recording Entry
Number.
b. Within 10.6, add clarifying language that reiterates that amendments to exhibits
will be treated the same as amendments to the DA as a whole in terms of
determining if they are substantial amendments or administrative amendments.
5. Exhibit A: Project & Legal Description
a. A.2 Project Area: Parcels & Acreage – Many of the parcels have changed since the
original agreement. The original DA identified 14 parcels, and the proposed
Master Conceptual Site Plan  (MCSP) identifies only 7 parcels. The proposed
amendments will clarify which height limitations, floor area, and principal uses
that were identified in the original DA apply to which current ly proposed parcels
shown on the MCSP.
b. A.3 Project Area:  UOP Master Plan & Boundary – The proposed map will visually
show how the original parcels relate to current day parcels.
Exhibit 2: Summary Outline of Proposed Amendments 
7
6. Exhibit B: Final Site Plans
a. Replace previous maps with one Master Conceptual Site Plan (MCSP). The MCSP
will serve as a guiding document for future development on the site but will not
be considered a Final Site Plan.
7. Exhibit C: Land Use & Zoning
a. Chart 1 – As stated in the Exhibit A outline, many parcels have changed since the
original DA. The applicant proposes to include an updated “Land Use & Zoning:
Chart 1” that will explain how the DA will be applied to the current day parcels.
b. Chart 2 – The applicant proposes to change the following Uses from Conditional
to Low Impact: Hotel, Inn; Ski Lifts, New; Ski Runs, New.
8. Exhibits E-G:
a. Revise any maps showing previous building locations to reflect proposed changes
to Master Conceptual Site Plan.
9. Exhibit H: Community Benefits
a. Remove mentioned of Full -time versus seasonal athletes and workforce and
replace with long-term and short-term.
b. Removing Unit Type Breakdown.
c. Amend the Athlete and Workforce Housing Generation chart.
d. Amend proposed athlete and workforce housing.
e. Amend how Affordable Unit Equivalents (AUEs) are calculated.
Exhibit 2: Summary Outline of Proposed Amendments 
8
1.1 Affordable Athlete and Workforce Housing Unit (“AAWHU”) means an 
AWHU that is dedicated to fulfilling affordable housing requirements as 
delineated in Exhibit H. 
1.2 Approved Uses means the approved uses which are shown on the Land Use 
and Zoning Charts, which are included in the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of 
Exhibits as Exhibit C and may or may not be shown on the Conceptual Master 
Plan included as Exhibit B. 
1.11.3 Architectural Design Guidelines means the Architectural Design Guidelines for 
the Project, a copy of which is included in the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of 
Exhibits as Exhibit D. 
1.4 Athlete and Workforce Housing Unit (“AWHU”) means a housing 
unit as designated by Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation for the use of 
Athletes and Workforce training or working at the Utah Olympic Park. 
AWHUs can leased on a long-term or short-term basis with priority 
given to Workforce, Athletes, Teams, Partner Organizations and 
Community Members in priority order. For the purposes of this 
Agreement AWHU are classified as Dwelling Units.  
1.5 Athlete Dormitory Dwelling Unit means Athlete and Workforce 
Housing Unit (AWHU). 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
9
1.21.6 Athlete Support Facilities means AWHU, AAWHU and may include
Hotel, Lodging, Commercial and any uses substantially related to the 
conduct of winter sports training, hosting of competitions and athletic 
events and that comply with all other covenants and restrictions 
applicable to the Utah Olympic Park. 
1.31.7 Building Permit means a permit issued pursuant to the requirements of the 
Snyderville Basin Development Code, International Building Code and related 
building codes as applicable in the Snyderville Basin Planning District, including 
permits for grading, footings and foundations and construction of other 
improvements. 
1.41.8 Code means the Snyderville Basin Development Code. 
1.51.9 Comprehensive Sign Plan means the Comprehensive Sign Plan for the Project 
which is included in the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits as Exhibit G. 
1.61.10 County means Summit County, a political subdivision of the State of Utah, 
by and through its County Council. 
1.71.11 Developer means the Utah Athletic Foundation, a Utah non-profit 
corporation, its affiliate entities, and its assignees or transferees. The Utah 
Athletic Foundation operates under the d.b.a. Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation 
operating facilities and programs at the Utah Olympic Park in Park City, Utah and 
the Utah Olympic Oval in Kearns, Utah, and Soldier Hollow in Wasatch County, 
Utah. 
1.81.12 Development Agreement means this Development Agreement and any 
amendments. 
1.91.13 Director means the Summit County Community Development Director. 
1.10 Final Site Plans mean the Final Site Plans which are included in the Olympic 
Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits as Exhibit B, establishing development layout, 
architectural, landscaping, lighting, and other development details for the Project, 
as such Final Site Plans are amended. 
1.14 General Plan means the Snyderville Basin General Plan of the County. 
1.15 Hotel, Inn means amenities may include but are not limited to conference areas, 
retail support, food and beverage, locker rooms, storage, and other uses 
customarily associated with hotels and recreational lodging. Hotel/Lodging units 
may be professionally or independently branded, managed, or operated.  
1.15.1 Hotel Room means a unit consisting of one room that may contain 
a kitchen, intended for temporary living and sleeping purposes and 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
10
including a separate, exclusive bathroom.  
  
1.111.15.2 Hotel Suite means a unit consisting of more than one room 
that may contain a kitchen, intended for temporary living and 
sleeping purposes and including at least one separate, exclusive 
bathroom. 
1.121.16 Land Use Laws means zoning, subdivision, development, growth 
management, platting, environmental, open space, transportation and other land 
use plans, policies, ordinances and regulations existing and in force for the 
County as of the date of this Development Agreement, and as may be amended 
from time to time. 
1.131.17 Landscaping Plan means the Landscaping Plan based on the Master 
Conceptual Site Plan, as amended, for the Project which is included in the 
Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits as Exhibit E.  
1.141.18 Lighting Plan means the Lighting Plan for the Project based on the 
Master Conceptual Site Plan, as amended, which is included in Exhibit F of the 
Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits. 
1.19 Low Impact Development means when specifically designated as a low impact 
activity in the Development Agreement or in the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of 
Exhibits, such uses shall be subject to a Low Impact Permit review and approval 
by the Director in accordance with the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits 
and all applicable provisions of the Snyderville Basin Development Code. 
1.20 Master Conceptual Site Plan means the site plan, which are included in the 
Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits as Exhibit B, establishing anticipated 
development layout, architectural, landscaping, lighting, and other development 
details for the Project, as such are amended. 
1.21 Multi-family Dwelling Unit means a structure containing two or more 
individual dwelling units sharing common horizontal floors/ceilings 
that are intended for separate households, where each unit provides 
independent facilities for one or more persons, including provisions 
for sleeping, cooking, and sanitation. This term expressly includes, 
but is not limited to: 
 
1.14.11.21.1 Condominium Units: Individually owned 
residential units within a multi-family structure or 
complex governed by a condominium association or 
similar common interest community organization, where 
ownership includes a fractional interest in common 
amenities included in the building. 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
11
1.151.22 Olympic Park means the Utah Winter Sports Park, Summit County, Utah. 
1.161.23 Olympic Park SPA means the zone district adopted and approved on 
March 14, 2012 by Ordinance No. 821; and on November 6, 2013, by Ordinance 
No. 819; and any additional amendments. 
1.171.24 Olympic Park SPA Plan means a comprehensive plan, set forth in this 
Development Agreement and SPA Plan Book of Exhibits and amendments 
hereto, establishing the Approved Uses and Final Site Plans and providing 
processes for obtaining Building Permits and other approvals for implementing 
the Olympic Park SPA. 
1.181.25 Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits means that portion of the 
Olympic Park SPA Plan which contains the Final Site Plans, Landscaping Plan, 
Lighting Plan, Land Use and Zoning Charts and all other guidelines and 
standards that shall be used to guide all development in the Olympic Park SPA 
and all other specific development parameters and regulations, including 
developer obligations, commitments, and contributions for carrying out the 
development in accordance with the Olympic Park SPA Plan. 
1.191.26 Phase means one of the proposed individual Phases as shown on the 
Final Site Plans. 
1.201.27 Phases means, collectively, the individual proposed Phases as shown on 
the Final Site Plans. 
1.211.28 Planning Commission means the Snyderville Basin Planning 
Commission. 
1.221.29 Project means the development of approximately 393 acres of land and 
appurtenant real property rights located in Summit County, Utah, the legal 
description of such land is attached hereto as Exhibit A of the Olympic Park SPA 
Plan Book of Exhibits, pursuant to the Olympic Park SPA Plan and this 
Development Agreement and any of its Exhibits hereto. 
1.30 Public Benefits means public infrastructure or public service facilities at the 
Project benefitting the public as further set forth and described in Article 7 below 
and in Exhibit H of the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits. 
1.31 Ridgeline Structures means structures located on ridgelines as viewed from 
Interstate 80, SR-224, SR-248, and U.S.-40. Development of Ridgeline 
Structures shall be prohibited except as outlined for Athlete Support uses in 
existing agreements with adjacent property owners, previous approved site 
plans, and resort lifts and runs.  
1.32 Ski Lifts, New means a mechanical device to transport passengers and cargo 
by means of chairs or enclosed compartments attached to a cable or to rails, 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
12
including each of the devices described in Section 72-11-102 of the Utah Code 
Annotated, as amended. Includes ski tows and ski lifts. 
1.33 Ski Lifts, Modification means a minor modification of a lawfully created Ski Lift 
which is less than a fifteen percent (15%) increase of the existing total acreage of 
disturbed area for said Ski Lift but no greater than five (5) acres. 
1.34 Ski Run, New means a designated slope, trail, or course on a mountain or hill 
that is intended, prepared and maintained for snow sports. 
1.23 Ski Run, Modification means a minor modification of a lawfully created Ski Run 
which is less than a fifteen percent (15%) increase of the existing total acreage of 
said Ski Run but no greater than five (5) acres.  
 
Article 2 
RECITALS 
2.1 The recitals in the remainder of this Article 2, together with the findings set forth 
in Article 3, are an integral part of this Development Agreement and are a part of 
the consideration for each Party's entry into this Development Agreement. 
2.2 Developer is the record owner of the Project or has contractual rights to acquire 
any such portions thereof as are not owned of record by Developer. Developer, 
County and the Snyderville Basin Special Recreation District have entered into 
that certain Exchange Agreement, dated November 6,2013, attached hereto as 
Exhibit J, whereby various parcels of property have been exchanged between 
the entities. Such exchanges have enabled Developer to relocate portions of the 
proposed residential uses at the Project in order to, among other benefits, further 
minimize visibility to and from Kimball Junction. It is further agreed that such 
exchange will not alter the overall density rights for the Project. 
2.3 This Development Agreement serves to implement the Olympic Park SPA and 
Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits which are incorporated by reference 
herein. 
2.4 This Development Agreement and the Olympic Park SPA Plan resolve all issues 
associated with the development and construction of the Project except, as to the 
performance of any additional obligations which shall be specified in this 
Development Agreement. 
2.5 The County has adopted through Ordinance No. 819 an amendment to the 
General Plan, the Code and the Zoning Map classifying the Project as a Resort 
Center (RC) zone and setting forth therein such land use classifications and 
development locations as are permitted under thethis Development Agreement. 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
13
2.6 Developer has proposed specific plans and plats with respect to the Project in 
response to direction and  guidance from the Director and the Planning 
Commission. 
2.7 The County therefore desires to establish the Olympic Park SPA under the SPA 
provisions of the Code and the General Plan for the purpose of implementing 
development standards and processes that are consistent therewith. 
2.8 The Development Agreement, which implements the Olympic Park SPA, provides 
detailed data regarding the Final Site Plans for the Project. The County and 
Developer agree that each shall comply with the standards and procedures 
contemplated by the Olympic Park SPA, this Development Agreement and its 
accompanying Exhibits, the Code, and the General Plan with respect to obtaining 
future Building Permits for any Phases or new construction within the Project. 
2.9 Developer and the County desire to clarify certain standards and procedures that 
will be applied to approvals of Building Permits for the Phases of the 
development and construction and to address requirements for certain Public 
Benefits. 
2.10 The County also desires to receive certain Public Benefits, and Developer is 
willing to provide these Public Benefits in consideration of the agreement of the 
County for increased intensity of uses in the Olympic Park SPA pursuant to the 
terms of this Development Agreement. 
2.11 The County, acting pursuant to its authority under Utah Code Annotated, Section 
17-27a-101 et seq., the Code and the General Plan, has made certain 
determinations with respect to the Olympic Park SPA, and, in the exercise of its 
legislative discretion, has elected to approve the uses, density, and general 
configuration of the Project and its future development pursuant to the Olympic 
Park SPA, resulting in  the negotiation, consideration and approval of this 
Development Agreement, after all necessary public hearings. 
Article 3 
FINDINGS 
The County Council of the County, acting in its legislative capacity, has made the 
following determinations with respect to the Olympic Park SPA Plan set forth in this 
Article 3, including all findings of fact and conclusions of law as are necessary to make 
each of such determinations: 
3.1 Following a lawfully advertised public hearing, Developer received a positive 
recommendation for approval of the Project through aamendments to this 
Development Agreement by action of the Planning Commission taken on 
December 18, 2012_____________, 2025. 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
14
3.2 The County Council held a lawfully advertised public hearing on ____________, 
2025November 6, 2013, and during a lawfully advertised public meeting on that 
same date, approved this Amended Development Agreement under the 
processes and procedures set forth in the Code and General Plan. 
3.3 The terms and conditions of approval are incorporated fully into this 
Development Agreement. In making such approval, the County Council made 
such findings of fact and conclusions Of law as are required as a condition to the 
approvals, as reflected in the staff recommendation, as reflected in the minutes 
of the above referenced public meetings, and as reflected by the other 
enumerated findings herein. 
3.4 The Olympic Park SPA provides substantial, tangible benefits to the general 
public of the Snyderville Basin that significantly outweigh those that would be 
derived if the development occurred under the provisions of the existing zone. 
The provisions of those benefits and amenities have been taken into 
consideration by Summit County in granting increased residential and 
commercial densities on the Project. 
3.5 The Olympic Park SPA Plan, as reflected in and conditioned by the terms and 
conditions of the Development Agreement and the amendments thereto, is in 
conformity and compliance with the General Plan, any existing capital 
improvement programs, the provisions of the Code (including concurrency and 
infrastructure requirements), and all other development requirements of the 
County. 
3.6 The Olympic Park SPA Plan contains outstanding features which advance the 
policies, goals and objectives of the General Plan beyond mere conformity, 
including the following: (i) agreements with respect to design controls and 
limitations to minimize the visual impact of the Project; (ii) dedication and 
preservation of view shed and environmental features; (iii) taking advantageous 
use of natural depressions in topography to minimize the visual prominence and 
potential for ridge lining; (iv) appropriate location of density and uses; (v) the 
preservation of critical open space areas; (vi) the promotion of recreation uses 
and resort related Public Benefits that are appropriate to support the community 
and recreational nature of the area; (vii) contribution to community trails and 
parks including working with the Snyderville Basin Special Recreation District to 
identify possible trail linkages and trail heads; (viii) exceeding open space 
requirements for the Project; and (ix) using efforts to minimize visibility of the 
residential housing to and from Kimball Junction; (x) provides incentives to 
private development partners to avoid depleting the endowment established 
to fund the operation of the venues operated by the Developer. 
3.7 There are unique circumstances that justify the use of a SPA, including 
preserving the long- term viability of the Olympic Park. County and Developer 
acknowledge that the existing facilities were built by the State of Utah without 
any zoning or building approvals. In order to preserve the long- term viability of 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
15
the Olympic Park, additional funding is needed to avoid depleting the 
endowment established to fund the operation of the Olympic Park. Expanded 
commercial development within the Olympic Park SPA is one way to provide this 
funding. 
3.8 Developer has committed to comply with all Affordable Housing Requirements 
consistent with other resort areas in Summit County and as delineated in Exhibit 
H hereinof Chapter 5 of the Code. County acknowledges and agrees that to the 
extent that Developer exceeds the minimum unit equivalent Affordable Housing 
Requirements under Exhibit Hthe Code, Developer may use such additional 
housing in any manner it sees fit consistent with the terms of this Agreement 
including or the existing Code provisions for residential uses or Hotel, 
Inn/Lodging, including, but not limited to, charging a higher rental rate and 
utilizing such housing as nightly rentals for visiting athletes, Olympic Park 
guests, or officials. 
3.9 Subject to the terms of this Development Agreement, Developer has committed 
to comply with all appropriate concurrency and infrastructure requirements of the 
Code, and all appropriate criteria and standards described in the Development 
Agreement and the amendments thereto, including any applicable impact fees of 
the County and its Special Districts (subject to Articles 6.1 and 6.2 below). 
3.10 There exist adequate provisions for mitigation of all fiscal and service impacts on 
the general public. 
3.11 Any construction management impacts shall be addressed in the Construction 
Management and Mitigation Plan established for the Olympic Park SPA and 
approved by the County Engineer, as required in Article 4.6 hereof. 
3.12 The approval of the Olympic Park SPA Plan will not adversely affect the public 
health, safety and general welfare of the residents of Summit County, it being 
acknowledged that the proposed Project will substantially enhance and benefit 
the public health, safety and general welfare of the residents of Summit County. 
3.13 The Olympic Park SPA Plan meets or exceeds development quality and 
aesthetic objectives of the General Plan and the Code, is consistent with the 
goal of orderly growth in the Snyderville Basin, and minimizes construction 
impacts on public infrastructure within the Snyderville Basin. 
3.14 The proposed development reasonably assures life and property within the 
Snyderville Basin is protected from any adverse impact of its development, it 
being acknowledged that the proposed Project will substantially enhance and 
benefit life and property within the Snyderville Basin. 
3.15 Developer shall take reasonably appropriate measures to prevent harm to 
neighboring properties and lands from development, including nuisances. 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
16
3.16 Exemption from Code. The County Council acting pursuant to its authority under 
Utah Code Annotated 17-27a-101 et seq., as well as its regulations and 
guidelines, in the exercise of its legislative discretion, has determined that the 
Olympic Park SPA is exempt from the application of the Code solely to the extent 
that such a finding may be a condition precedent to approval of this 
Development Agreement. Where there is a direct conflict between an express 
provision of this Development Agreement and the Code or General Plan or other 
Land Use Laws, this Development Agreement shall take precedence; otherwise, 
the Code, General Plan, or other Land Use Laws shall control. 
 
Article 4 
APPROVALS/PHASED DEVELOPMENT OF THE PROJECT 
4.1 Approval. The approval and execution of this Development Agreement by the 
County and Developer constitutes approval of the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book 
of Exhibits (listed below), as if fully set forth herein at length and shall be binding 
upon the Parties hereto. 
 
4.1.1 Project and Legal Description of the Project (Exhibit A) – Amended 2025 
4.1.2 Final Master Conceptual Site Plans (Exhibit B) – Amended 2025 
4.1.3 Land Use and Zoning Charts (Exhibit C) – Amended 2025 
4.1.4 Architectural Guidelines (Exhibit D) 
4.1.5 Landscaping Plan (Exhibit E) – see amendments to 4.1.2 
4.1.6 Lighting Plan (Exhibit F) – see amendments to 4.1.2 
4.1.7 Comprehensive Sign Plan (Exhibit G) – see amendments to 4.1.2 
4.1.8 Community Benefits (Exhibit H) – Amended 2025 
4.1.9 Future Olympic Transportation and Security Staging Areas (Exhibit I) 
4.1.10 Exchange Agreement (Exhibit J) 
4.1.11 Supplementary SPA Submittal Materials (Exhibit K) 
4.2 Project Phasing. The Project may be constructed in Phases by Developer as 
shown in Exhibit B of the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits 
4.3 Parking. Parking of vehicles on the Property shall be in accordance with the 
Final Site Plans. The parking and display of UAF Sponsor vehicles shall be 
limited to the areas on the Property designated in the foregoing sentence and as 
identified in Exhibit B of the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits. 
4.4 Building Permit Required. Subject to Article 6. l, prior to the commencement of 
each structure, a Building Permit shall be required from the County in 
accordance with all applicable requirements of the Code, the International 
Building Code, and other related codes applicable to the Snyderville Basin 
Planning District. 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
17
4.5 Compliance of Building Permits with Development Agreement. A Building Permit 
for each structure shall comply with the conditions specified in this Development 
Agreement. 
4.6 Construction Mitigation and Management Plan Required. A Building Permit will 
not be issued for any facility or structure within the Olympic Park SPA until an 
adequate Construction Management and Mitigation Plan has been established 
for the Olympic Park SPA and approved by the County Engineer, who may 
require changes to address any unforeseen impacts that occur during 
construction. The plan shall address the following matters specifically, together 
with any other related matters identified by the Summit County Community 
Development Director and Developer. A separate plan may be established for 
each Phase.  
4.6.1 Revegetation/erosion protection/runoff control 
4.6.2 Site grading 
4.6.3 Dust and debris control 
4.6.4 Recycling construction material waste 
4.6.5 Damage to public roadways as a result of construction 
4.6.6 Traffic control/construction management control 
4.6.7 Hours of construction 
4.6.8 Staging and screening of construction materials and equipment 
4.6.9 Construction lighting, construction security, and fire protection 
4.6.10 Solid Waste Disposal for construction wastes 
4.6.11 Parking 
4.7 Compliance with Concurrency Management Standards Required. In addition to 
compliance with the criteria required under the Code, the following service 
provider and concurrency information shall also be required and reviewed along 
with any Building Permit. Upon receiving such information, the Director shall 
prepare a report(s) identifying issues and concerns related to the proposal. The 
following additional information toshall be provided is as follows: 
4.7.1 Water Service. 
4.7.1.1 A Feasibility letter for the proposed water supply issued by the 
State Division of Drinking Water. 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
18
4.7.1.2 Evidence of coordination with the public or private water service 
provider, including an  agreement for service and an indication of 
the service area of the proposed water supplier, commitment 
service letter or other binding arrangement for the provision of 
water services. 
4.7.1.3 Evidence that water rights have been obtained including an 
application for appropriation or change application endorsed by 
the State Engineer pursuant to Section 73-3-10 of the Utah Code, 
and a certificate of appropriation or certificate of change issued in 
accordance with Section 73-3-16 of the Utah Code. The County 
shall not accept an application or certificate that has lapsed, 
expired or been revoked by the State Engineer. 
4.7.1.4 A certificate of convenience and necessity or an exemption 
therefrom, issued by the State Public Service Commission, for 
the proposed water supplier. 
4.7.2 Fire Protection. 
4.7.2.1 A letter from the Park City Fire Special Service District (PCFD) 
indicating that fire hydrants, water lines sizes, water storage for 
fire protection, and minimum flow for fire protection are adequate. 
These shall be determined using the standards of the Insurance 
Services Office which are known as the Fire System Grading 
Standards. In no case shall minimum fire flow be less than 1,000 
gallons per minute for a period of two (2) hours. 
4.7.2.2 Written evidence to the County and the Park City Fire Special 
Service District (PCFD) verifying that an authorized water 
company shall be responsible for the perpetual and continual 
maintenance of all fire protection appurtenances, including 
annual flagging of all hydrants prior to November 1st of each year. 
4.7.3 Recreation. A letter from the Snyderville Basin Special Recreation District 
(Recreation District) indicating that all requirements of the Recreation 
District and the terms of this Development Agreement have been 
satisfied. 
4.8 Comprehensive Sign Plan Required. Although not currently permitted under the 
Development Code, the County Council, in their legislative capacity hereby finds: 
l ) that there exists currently, a comprehensive sign plan for the Project; and 2) 
that the existing sign regulations do not and cannot meet the needs of the 
Project and that given the nature of the Project and its uses, the Comprehensive 
Sign Plan which is included in the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits as 
Exhibit G, is appropriate for the Project. The Comprehensive Sign Plan 
addresses all design, size, location, lighting, and other related standards for all 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
19
commercial business identification signs, residential development identification 
signs, directional signs, and any other signs that may be contemplated by the 
Developer. 
4.9 Lighting Plan Required. The Lighting Plan which is included in the Olympic Park 
SPA Plan Book of Exhibits as Exhibit F, is appropriate for the Project. The 
adopted Lighting Plan includes requirements that to the maximum extent 
possible, there be no bleeding or spillover from the lighting and that as 
technology and energy efficiency improves, use of those technologies areis 
encouraged but not required so long as the intent to limit the impacts of lighting 
are met. 
4.10 Land Use and Zoning Charts. There is hereby adopted Land Use and Zoning 
Charts which sets forth the uses, densities and processes by which development 
at the Project shall occur. The Land Use and Zoning Charts are included in the 
Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits as Exhibit C. 
4.11 Design Review Committee. There is hereby established a Design Review 
Committee ("DRC") which shall be made up of five (5) members. The 
membership shall include two (2) members of the Snyderville Basin Planning 
Commission and one (1) planner from the Summit County Community 
Development Department. The remaining membership shall be appointed by the 
Developer. 
4.11.1 Prior to the submission of any development application for the Project, the 
DRC shall meet, review and confirm compliance with the Olympic Park 
SPA and the Architectural Guidelines. In addition to its compliance review, 
the DRC may make additional comments or recommendations to 
Developer with respect to the development application and Developer 
shall reasonably consider any such comments or recommendations and 
shall use reasonable efforts to address such comments or 
recommendations in the final development application for the Project filed 
with the County. 
4.11.2 Upon receiving notice from the Developer of any development application, 
the DRC shall meet and confer within sixty (60) days of that notice. 
Failure to meet within that time period shall be deemed an "approval" of 
the application which may then be filed with the County. 
4.12 Low Impact Permit Approval. Whenever in this Development Agreement a low 
impact activity or approval process is designated or required, the Developer shall 
submit for approval and review by the County all applicable information and 
documents in accordance with the provisions of Section 10-3-43.4 of the Code, 
as amended. With regard to this Development Agreement, the qualifications set 
forth in Section 10-3-43.4 of the Code shall be expanded to allow compliance 
with the terms and provisions of this Development Agreement. 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
20
4.13 Conditional Use Permit Approval. Whenever in this Development Agreement a 
conditional use or approval process is designated or required, the Developer 
shall submit for approval and review by the County all applicable information and 
documents in accordance with the provisions of Section 10-3-53.5 of the Code, 
as amended. With regard to this Development Agreement, the qualifications set 
forth in Section 10-3-53.5 of the Code shall be expanded to allow compliance 
with the terms and provisions of this Development Agreement. 
4.14 Temporary Use Permit Approval. Whenever in this Development Agreement a 
temporary use or approval process is designated or required, Developer shall 
submit for approval and review by the County all applicable information and 
documents in accordance with the provisions of Section 10-3-33.3 of the Code, 
as amended. With regard to this Development Agreement, the qualifications set 
forth in Section 10-3-33.3 of the Code shall be expanded to allow compliance 
with the terms and provisions of this Development Agreement. 
4.15 Development Improvements Agreement Required. A Development 
Improvements Agreement ("DIA") shall be required. No building, grading, or 
other related development permit shall be issued for any project or structure 
within the Project until a Development Improvements Agreement in a form 
acceptable to Summit County has been accepted by the County. The Staff shall 
review the Developer's proposal for a Development Improvements Agreement 
and provide its recommendation to the County Engineer for approval. A separate 
Development Improvements Agreement may be established for each Phase of 
the development. Improvements which shall be guaranteed include: 
4.15.1 All utilities, including water and sewer service. 
4.15.2 All Public and Private roads, inclusive of all "Civil Improvements" 
associated with the roadway. 
4.15.3 All "Civil Improvements" associated with individual project Final Ssite 
Pplans. 
4.15.4 Temporary and permanent, structural and non-structural soil conservation 
measures. 
4.15.5 Bus Shelters. 
4.15.6 Temporary and permanent, structural and non-structural run off control 
measures. 
4.15.7 Required buffering, screening, and landscaping. 
4.15.8 All public trails shall be constructed, with respect to timing and design, as 
required by this Development Agreement. 
4.15.9 All private trails. 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
21
4.15.10 The County shall have the option of using the guarantee for Site 
Restoration, should development not be completed within the required 
construction schedule or complete the project per the approved Final Site 
Plans. The Development Improvements Agreement, in athe form and 
amount of guarantee to be approved by the County Engineer, shall 
establish a security to complete improvements, warranties after 
completion, schedules for completing all improvements, and remedy 
provisions in the event of a default. It is understood by the Parties that 
Developer has previously installed most of the public improvements and 
that the security herein pertains in large part to site restoration and re-
vegetation. Said improvements shall be warranted by the Developer for a 
period of one full year of normal operation from the date of completion, as 
established by the County Engineer. The County shall retain 40% of the 
security for a period of 12 months from the date of completion of the 
improvements. 
4.16 Other Service Providers. Prior to the issuance of Building Permits, the Director 
shall secure input regarding the Project from all other affected agencies and 
service providers, including but not necessarily limited to the County Health 
Department and Rocky Mountain Power. 
 
Article 5 
VESTED RIGHTS 
5.1 Vested Rights/Approved Use, Density, and Configuration. Subject to the terms, 
conditions and requirements of this Development Agreement, Developer is 
hereby vested with respect to the Olympic Park SPA as to the uses, densities, 
design guidelines and methods, development standards, the Final Site Plans 
and other approval processes, as reflected in the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book 
of Exhibits and all other provisions of this Development Agreement and 
amendments hereto. Subject to the conditions and requirements of this 
Development Agreement, Developer shall have the vested right to construct the 
Project in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Development 
Agreement and amendments hereto. 
5.2 Reserved Legislative Powers/Future Changes of Laws and Plans/Compelling 
Countervailing Public Interest. Nothing in this Development Agreement shall limit 
the future exercise of the police power of  the County in enacting zoning, 
subdivision, development, growth management, platting, environmental, open 
space, transportation and other master plans, policies, ordinances and 
regulations after the date of the Development Agreement. Notwithstanding the 
retained power of the County to enact such legislation under the police power, 
such legislation shall only be applied to modify the vested rights described in 
Article 5.1, as well as other provisions of this Development Agreement, based 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
22
upon policies, facts and circumstances meeting the compelling, countervailing 
public interest exception to the vested rights doctrine in the State of Utah. 
(Western Land Equities Inc v. City of Logan, 617 P. 2d 388 (Utah 1980), U.C.A. 
17-27a-508, or other successor case and statutory law). Any such proposed 
change affecting the vested rights of Developer and other provisions of this 
Development Agreement shall be of general application to all development 
activity in the Snyderville Basin; and, unless the County declares an emergency, 
Developer shall be entitled to prior written notice and an opportunity to be heard 
with respect to the proposed change and its applicability to the Olympic Park 
under the compelling, countervailing public policy exception to the vested rights 
doctrine. In the event that the County does not give prior written notice, 
Developer shall retain the' right to be heard before an open meeting of the 
County Council in the event Developer alleges that its rights under this 
Development Agreement have been adversely affected.  
5.3 Normal Operating Capacity / Special Event Permits. County acknowledges and 
agrees that there is existing operating capacity within the Olympic Park to 
accommodate up to 2,000 people at any one point and therefore the facility is 
recognized for having that approved normal operating capacity. 
5.3.1 Accordingly, the County Council in its legislative capacity hereby waives 
the requirement under the Code that Developer apply for and obtain a 
special event permit for events and activities it is hosting within the 
Olympic Park for capacities of 2,000 people and less. Developer shall use 
every reasonable effort to encourage trip reduction including: car pool, 
transit, HOV, and non-motorized access. 
5.3.2 Developer shall ensure that at least one first aid station staffed and 
equipped with the minimum equipment and staffing level of at least two 
(2) state-licensed or certified medical providers, such as an emergency 
medical technician, paramedic, nurse, physician's assistant or medical 
doctor are present to staff each first aid station over the duration of the 
event. 
5.3.2.1 The first aid station(s) shall be clearly marked, identifiable and 
strategically located to provide expedient medical care for those 
attending or participating in the events at the Olympic Park. 
5.3.2.2 The first aid station(s) shall be easily accessible by emergency 
vehicles. The Developer shall provide the Park City Fire Special 
Service District (PCFD) with a map of the gathering site which 
includes the locations of first aid station(s), emergency vehicle 
ingress and egress routes, landing zones (if applicable) and 
rendezvous locations. 
5.3.2.3 Developer shall ensure that the staff person in charge of the first 
aid station(s) keeps accurate records of patients and treatment, 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
23
and that the health officer is notified of all cases involving 
serious injury or communicable disease in accordance with 
R386-702 (Communicable Disease Rule) and R3 86-703 (Injury 
Reporting Rule). 
5.3.3 Temporary structures and/or facilities, such as tents, food vendor carts, 
etc., that are part of any such activities, shall be required to apply for and 
receive standard use permits as required by the County and the Park City 
Fire Special Service District.  
5.3.4 At the discretion of the County's Community Development Director, should 
the Olympic Park show repeated failures to satisfy local regulatory 
agencies (such as Health and Fire District), then the Community 
Development Director shall have the ability to require traditional special 
event permits of the Developer up until regular compliance has been met 
for any events under 2,000 people. 
5.3.5 Expected crowds greater than 2,000 people for any given event (i.e., an 
Olympic event) must comply with County regulations regarding the 
application for and the obtaining of a sSpecial eEvent pPermit for such 
event. 
5.4 Towers and Recreational Structures. Non-building structures at the Olympic Park 
SPA that are in excess of thirty-two (32) feet such as existing chairlift towers, 
adventure course towers and recreational towers and non-building structures of 
a similar type and nature shall be deemed support infrastructure and shall be 
deemed a conforming use. The Developer shall follow the permitting process as 
outlined in Exhibit C to obtain any appropriate permit from the County for future 
non-building structures. 
5.5 Interconnection. Developer supports and shall work in good faith to coordinate 
with the Master Developer of Canyons Resort and other parties involved, to 
make a physical transportation interconnect between Canyons Resort, Olympic 
Park, and Kimball Junction. Such an interconnect shall be reviewed through the 
Low Impact Permit approval process. 
Article 6 
FEES AND MITIGATIONS 
 
6.1 SPA Rezone Application. Development Agreement Application. Development 
Review. Engineering and Related Fees. Pursuant to the provisions of Resolution 
2010-13, Developer agrees to pay the sum of prior to final approval of the 
Development Agreement by the County Council. Except as expressly provided 
below in this Article 6, Developer shall receive no further credits or adjustments 
toward any other development review, platting, site planning, or similar standard 
engineering review fees or other fees generally applicable to development 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
24
application or building permit review and approval. The County may charge such 
standard planning and engineering review fees, standard building permit review 
fees, and other fees as are generally applicable at the time of application, 
pursuant to the provisions of Resolution 2010-13, as amended, or other 
applicable statutes, ordinances, resolutions, or administrative guidelines. County 
acknowledges and agrees that, pursuant to the terms of the Exchange 
Agreement between County and Developer as more particularly described in 
Article 2.2 above, Developer is entitled to a credit against the above described 
development fees in the amount of Thirty-five Thousand Dollars ($35,000.00). 
6.2 Impact Fees: The Olympic Park SPA shall be subject to all impact fees which are 
currently imposed and are in effect as of the date of this Development 
Agreement. The fees shall be payable in accordance with the payment 
requirements of the particular impact fee ordinance and implementing resolution. 
Notwithstanding the agreement of Developer to subject the Olympic Park SPA to 
impact fees under the above-stated conditions, Developer does not waive 
Developer' s rights under any applicable law to challenge the reasonableness of 
the amount of the fees within thirty (30) days following imposition of the fees on 
the Olympic Park SPA based upon the application of the Rational Nexus Test (as 
defined in Article 6.2.1). 
6.2.1 Rational Nexus Test. For purposes of this Development Agreement, the 
Rational Nexus Test shall mean and refer to a standard of reasonableness whereby the 
Olympic Park shall not bear more than an equitable share of the capital costs financed 
by an impact fee or exaction in relation to the benefits conferred on and impacts of the 
Project. The interpretation of "rational nexus" shall be governed by the federal or Utah 
case law and statutes in effect at the time of any challenge to an impact fee or exaction 
imposed as provided herein including, but not limited to, the standards of Banberry 
Development Corp. v. South Jordan City or its successor case law. 
6.36.2 Considerations for Community Benefits. The County acknowledges that 
Developer is a not-for-profit entity and will be supplying a substantial benefit to 
the community. In addition, it is a central purpose of the Project to preserve the 
long term viability of the Olympic Park by obtaining additional funding and to 
incent private development partners to avoid depleting the endowment 
established to fund the operation of the Olympic Park. Accordingly, the County 
agrees to reasonably consider, to the extent allowed by applicable law, the 
following avenues of potential assistance: 
6.3.1 Economic Development Tools such as Tax Increment Financing, 
Redevelopment Areas (RDA's), enterprise zones, public infrastructure 
districts, special service district designations, creation of political 
subdivision of the State,and or similar land designations that would assist 
the Utah Athletic Foundation in its long-term sustainability efforts. 
6.3.2 County merit-based grant allocations, (such as or similar to Transient 
Room Tax (TRT) or resort communities sales and use tax, to assist the 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
25
Utah Athletic Foundation in efforts to further enhance the outlined 
community benefits. 
6.4 Future Olympic Games In the event that, during the term of this Development 
Agreement, the State of Utah is chosen to host another Olympic Games and, as 
a result of such Olympic Games, the Olympic Park is identified as an official 
competition venue, the County will look to assist these efforts by: 
6.4.1 Allowing transportation and security staging areas in designated areas of 
property located below the Olympic Park and in the surrounding Kimball 
Junction area, as conceptually outlined in the Olympic Park SPA Plan 
Book of Exhibits as Exhibit I, subject to any terms and conditions deemed 
necessary by the County and the Snyderville Basin Special Recreation 
District together with any releases or waivers required by that certain 
Declaration and Notice of Use Restrictions, dated November 20, 2008, to 
ensure that any area of disturbance is immediately and effectively 
mitigated restored upon termination of the Olympic Games. 
6.4.2 Provide planning support and assistance to any bid / organizing committee 
efforts. 
6.4.3 Fairly negotiate any community services agreements and support to 
staging a future effort. 
6.4.36.4.4 Designate the Utah Olympic Park as a “Major Sporting Event Venu” 
pursuant to SB333, 2025 General Legislative Session. 
6.5 Transportation Special Service District. When public bus service to the Olympic 
Park is made available by the County, Developer agrees to be annexed into the 
Kimball Area Transportation Special Service District and pay such assessments, 
on an equal basis, as are required of other property owners therein. 
6.6 Traffic Capacity. Developer's traffic report, Exhibit K. 1, acknowledged limitations 
in traffic capacity with the accessing area. Limitations for Phase I of the project, 
as identified in the traffic report, have been corrected with the cooperative efforts 
of Summit County and UDOT by implementing dual lefts at Olympic Park and 
SR-224. The Developer acknowledges the need for additional access capacity 
prior to construction of Phase 2 as identified in Exhibit K.1. The Snyderville Basin 
Transportation Master Plan identifies means to provide the required capacity. 
These concepts or others as amended in the Transportation Master Plan will 
need to be implemented in advance of Phase 2 construction. 
 
 
 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
26
Article 7  
PUBLIC BENEFITS 
7.1 Contribution of Public Benefits. As a consideration for the County's entry into the 
Development Agreement, Developer shall provide the following Public Benefits 
beyond those public impacts created by the Project: 
7.1.1 UAF Property Open Space Preservation. Developer shall preserve the 
natural open space areas owned by the Developer and shown on the 
Master Conceptual Development PlanFinal Site Plans in the same 
general condition as those areas are presently found. Any disturbance of 
those areas for construction staging or the installation of utility lines shall 
be restored within one (1) year of completion of said construction or 
installation. 
7.1.2 Trails. Developer shall contribute to community trails and parks including 
working with the Snyderville Basin Special Recreation District to identify 
possible trail linkages and trail heads. 
7.1.3 Recreational Programs. Provide affordable, subsidized long term 
community recreation programs (especially for Summit County's youth). 
7.1.4 Olympic Winter Sport. Provide unique public program offerings that 
highlight our region's support and interest in Olympic Winter Sports. 
7.1.5 Olympic Legacy Foundation. Provide local organizational leadership 
towards initiatives of Utah's Olympic Legacy Foundation that ties in 
statewide interests to Summit County. 
7.1.6 Education Outreach. The nature of the Utah Athletic Foundation (d.b.a. 
"Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation") is to promote an ongoing legacy 
of the Olympic movement's efforts, to include efforts to promote sport 
and physical activity for all (especially for the community's youth) and 
to promote educational curriculum and community partner programs 
that have similar interests. It is the intent of the leadership of the Utah 
Athletic Foundation to utilize the Olympic Park for numerous and 
diverse community meetings and educational components that will 
serve a broad regional and statewide interest. 
 
Article 8 
SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS 
8.1 Binding Effect. This Development Agreement shall be binding on the successors 
and assigns of Developer in the ownership or development of any portion of the 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
27
Olympic Park SPA. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a purchaser of the Project or 
any portion thereof shall be responsible for performance of Developer's 
obligations hereunder as to the portion of the Project so transferred in 
accordance with the provisions of Article 8.2 hereinof. 
8.2 Transfer of the Project. Developer shall be entitled to transfer any portion of the 
Project subject to the terms of the Development Agreement and any 
amendments upon written notice to the County. In the event of any such 
complete transfer of all or a portion of Developer's interests in the Project, the 
transferee shall be deemed to be Developer for all purposes under this 
Development Agreement with respect to that portion of the Project transferred. 
Developer's obligation to notify the County shall terminate with respect to 
portions of the Project on which all of the improvements required by this 
Development Agreement have been substantially completed as evidenced by a 
certificate of occupancy granted by the County. 
8.3 Release of Developer. In the event of a transfer of all or a portion of the Project, 
Developer shall obtain an assumption by the transferee of Developer's 
obligations under this Development Agreement, and, in such event, the 
transferee shall be fully substituted as Developer under the Development 
Agreement, and Developer shall be released from any further obligations with 
respect to this Development Agreement as to the parcel so transferred. 
8.4 Obligations and Rights of Mortgage Lenders. The holder of any mortgage, deed 
of trust, or other security arrangement with respect to the Project, or any portion 
thereof, shall not be obligated under this Development Agreement to construct or 
complete improvements or to guarantee such construction or completion, but 
shall otherwise be bound by all of the terms and conditions of this Development 
Agreement and any amendments which pertain to the Project or such portion 
thereof in which it holds an interest. Any such holder who comes into possession 
of the Project, or any portion thereof, pursuant to a foreclosure of a mortgage or 
a deed of trust, or deed in lieu of such foreclosure shall take the Project, or such 
portion thereof, subject to any pro rata claims for payments or charges against 
the Project, or such portion thereof, deed restrictions, or other obligations which 
accrue prior to the time such holder comes into possession. Nothing in this 
Development Agreement shall be deemed or• construed to permit or authorize 
any such holder to devote the Project, or any portion thereof, to any uses, or to 
construct any improvements thereon, other than those uses and improvements 
provided for or authorized by the Development Agreement and any 
amendments, and, as would be the case in any assignment, the purchaser of the 
Project from the holder shall be subject to all of the terms and conditions of the 
Development Agreement, including the obligation to complete all required 
amenities and improvements and to comply with all parking provisions. 
  
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
28
 
Article 9 
DEFAULT, TERMINATION AND ARBITRATION 
 
9.1 Default. 
9.1.1 Events of Default. Default under this Development Agreement occurs 
upon the happening ofn one or more of the following events or conditions: 
9.1.1.1 A warranty, representation or statement made or furnished by 
Developer to the County in this Development Agreement, including 
any attachments hereto, is materially false or proves to have been 
materially false in any material respect when it was made. 
9.1.1.2 A finding and determination made by the Summit County Manager 
by substantial evidence that the Developer has not complied in 
good faith with one or more of the material terms or conditions of 
this Development Agreement. 
9.1.1.3 Any other event, condition, act or omission by Developer, which 
materially interferes with the intent and objective of this 
Development Agreement, after the expiration of all notice and cure 
periods. 
9.1.2 Notice and Cure of Default. Within ten (10) days after the occurrence of 
default, the County shall give Developer (the "defaulting party'.') written 
notice specifying the nature of the alleged default and, when appropriate, 
the manner in which the default must be satisfactorily cured. Developer 
shall have sixty (60) days after receipt of written notice to cure the default. 
After proper notice and expiration of the sixty (60) day cure period without 
cure, the County may terminate or amend this Development Agreement 
by giving written notice in accordance with the procedure adopted by the 
County. Failure or delay in giving notice of default shall not constitute a 
waiver of any default, nor shall it change the time of default. 
Notwithstanding the sixty (60) day cure period provided above, in the 
event more than thirty (30) days is reasonably required to cure a default 
and Developer, within the sixty (60) day cure period, commences actions 
reasonably designed to cure the default, then the cure period shall be 
extended for such additional period as Developer is prosecuting those 
actions diligently to completion. 
9.1.3 Non-Waiver.  Neither Party waives any claim of defect in performance of 
this Development Agreement by the other Party. 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
29
9.1.4 Other Remedies. All other remedies at law or in equity which are 
consistent with the provisions of this Development Agreement are 
available to the Parties to pursue in the event there is a breach. 
9.2 Termination 
9.2.1 Termination Upon Repudiation. An express repudiation, refusal or 
renunciation of this Development Agreement, if the same is in writing and 
signed by the Developer, shall be sufficient to terminate this Development 
Agreement and a public hearing on the matter shall not be required. 
9.2.2 Termination Upon Completion of Development. This Development 
Agreement shall terminate when the Project has been fully developed and 
Developer's and the County's obligations in connection therewith are 
satisfied, or at the expiration of the term of this Development Agreement 
as set forth in Article 10.5. The County shall record a notice that this 
Development Agreement has been fully performed and therefore has 
been terminated. 
9.2.3 Effect of Termination on Developer Obligations. Termination of the 
Development Agreement as to any Developer of the Project or any portion 
thereof shall not affect any such Developer's obligations under this 
Agreement or obligations to comply with the terms and conditions of any 
applicable zoning, or subdivision plat, site plan, Building Permit, or other 
land use entitlements approved with respect to the Project, nor shall it 
affect any other covenants or any other development requirements 
specified or created pursuant to the Development Agreement. Termination 
of the Development Agreement shall not affect or invalidate in any manner 
Developer's obligations of mutual release under Article 10.8 or 
indemnification and hold harmless under Article 10.16. 
9.2.4 Effect of Termination on the County Obligations. Upon any termination of 
the Development Agreement, the entitlements (including density), 
conditions of development, limitations on fees, and all other terms and 
conditions of the Development Agreement and any amendments shall no 
longer be vested by reason of the Development Agreement with respect 
to any portion of the Project then undeveloped and not then covered by a 
Building Permit application. Those undeveloped portions of the Project 
may be subject to then existing planning and zoning law. Upon such a 
termination, the County shall no longer be 'prohibited by the Development 
Agreement from making any changes or modifications to such 
entitlements, conditions, or fees applicable to such undeveloped portions 
of the Project. Further, with respect to the improved portions of the 
Project, the County shall remain obligated to recognize and apply the 
development standards and configuration contained in the Olympic Park 
SPA Plan Book of Exhibits. 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
30
9.2.5 Reversion to Regulations for Unimproved Portions of the Project. Should 
the County terminate the Development Agreement under the provisions 
hereof, Developer's remaining unimproved portions of the Project will 
thereafter comply with and be governed by the applicable County 
Development Code and General Plan then in existence, as well as with all 
other provisions of Utah State law. 
Article 10 
GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
10.1 No Addition to Project. No property may be added to the Project or to the 
Olympic Park SPA for purposes of the Development Agreement, except by 
written amendment. This Development Agreement shall not affect any land other 
than the Project. 
10.2 Development Agreement to run with the Land. The Development Agreement and 
any amendments shall be recorded against the Olympic Park. The agreements 
contained herein shall be deemed to run with the land and shall be binding on 
and shall inure to the benefit of all successors in ownership of the Project. 
10.3 Construction of Development Agreement. The Development Agreement shall be 
construed so as to effectuate the public purpose of resolving disputes, 
implementing long-range planning objectives, obtaining public benefits, and 
protecting any compelling, countervailing public interest, while providing 
assurances of continued vested development rights under the Development 
Agreement. 
10.4 Laws of General Applicability. Where the Development Agreement refers to laws 
of general applicability to the Olympic Park SPA and other properties, that 
language shall be deemed to refer to laws, which apply to, all other developed 
and subdivided properties within the Snyderville Basin of Summit County. 
10.5 Duration. The term of this Development Agreement shall commence on, and the 
effective date of this Development Agreement shall be, the effective date of the 
Ordinance approving this Development Agreement. The initial term shall be for a 
ten (10) year period. Prior to the expiration of any ten (10) year term, the 
Developer may request in writing an additional ten (I 0) year extension of this 
Development Agreement from the County Council. The written request may be 
made no more than two (2) times for a total duration of thirty (30) years if both 
extensions are granted. The County Council shall review the extension 
request(s) to ensure that the Developer is in compliance with this Development 
Agreement and that the request does not jeopardize the health, safety and 
welfare of the citizens of Summit County. Absent any negative determination 
from the County Council in the course of the above described review, the County 
Council shall approve the extension request. At the expiration of this 
Development Agreement, or the renewal period, the Olympic Park shall become 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
31
subject to the then existing Development Code and General Plan and all 
development rights vested under this Development Agreement shall expire. 
10.510.5.1 Permitted Extension Requests 
Entry Number Summary of 
Amendment 
Adopted 
Original 
Development 
Agreement 
00989488 
(Ordinance 820) 
N/A November 
6, 2013 
First 
Amendment 
01097502 Amendments to 
Exhibit H and 
Engineering 
Standards 
July 16, 
2018 
Second 
Amendment 
01117394 Amendments to 
Exhibit H and 
restricted 
affordable 
housing 
August 
30, 2019 
Third 
Amendment 
01216610 Extends original 
DA term for an 
additional ten 
years 
August 3, 
2023 
10.6 Amendments. 
10.6.1 Substantial Amendments. Any amendment to the Development 
Agreement that alters or modifies the Terms of the Development 
Agreement, or permitted uses, addsition or removesal of any lands, 
increasesd density or intensity of use, deletesion of any major public 
amenity described herein, or provisions for reservation and dedication of 
land, including open space dedications, shall be deemed a "Substantial 
Amendment" and shall require a noticed public hearing and 
recommendation by the Planning Commission and a noticed public 
hearing and decision by the County Council pursuant to the Equal 
Dignities Rule prior to the execution of such an amendment. 
10.6.2 Administrative Amendments. Unless otherwise provided by law, all 
amendments to the Development Agreement that are not Substantial 
Amendments shall be Administrative Amendments and shall not require 
a public hearing or recommendation of the Planning Commission prior 
to the execution by the Parties of such an amendment. The Director is 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
32
hereby empowered to make all final Administrative Amendment 
decisions. 
10.6.3 Effect of Amendments. Any amendment to the Development Agreement 
shall be operative only as to those specific portions of this Development 
Agreement expressly subject to the amendment, with all other terms 
and conditions remaining in full force and effect without interruption. 
10.7 Conflicts. 
10.7.1 To the extent there is any ambiguity in or conflict with the provisions of 
the Development Agreement and the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of 
Exhibits (including, without limitation, the Final Site Plans, Lighting 
Guidelines, Landscaping Plan, and Architectural Design Guidelines 
therein), the more specific and/or more restrictive provision or language 
shall take precedence over more general provisions or language. 
10.7.2 The County has reviewed the Code and General Plan and has 
determined that Developer has substantially complied with the 
provisions thereof and hereby finds that the Olympic Park SPA is 
consistent with the purpose and intent of the relevant provisions of the 
Snyderville Basin Development Code and General Plan. The Parties 
further agree that the omission of a limitation or restriction herein shall 
not relieve Developer of the necessity of complying with all applicable 
County Ordinances and Resolutions not in conflict with the provisions of 
this Development Agreement, along with all applicable state and federal 
laws. 
10.8 Mutual Releases. At the time of, and subject to, (i) the expiration of any 
applicable appeal period with respect to the approval of this Development 
Agreement without an appeal having been filed or (ii) the final determination of 
any court upholding this Development Agreement, whichever occurs later, and 
excepting the Parties' respective rights and obligations under this Development 
Agreement, Developer, on behalf of itself and Developer's partners, officers, 
directors, employees, agents, attorneys and consultants, hereby releases the 
County and the County's council members, officials, employees, agents, 
attorneys and consultants, and the County, on behalf of itself and the County's 
council members, officials, employees, agents, attorneys and consultants, herby 
releases Developer and Developer's partners, officers, directors, employees, 
agents, attorneys and consultants, from and against any and all claims, 
demands, liabilities, costs, expenses of whatever nature, whether known or 
unknown, and whether liquidated or contingent, arising on or before the date of 
this Development Agreement in connection with the application, processing or 
approval of the Olympic Park SPA, Olympic Park SPA Plan, and the 
Development Agreement and amendments, to include any claims for vested 
development rights by any Developer on property which is within the Olympic 
Park SPA. 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
33
10.9 State and Federal Law. The Parties agree, intend and understand that the 
obligations imposed by the Development Agreement are only such as are 
consistent with state and federal law. The Parties further agree that if any 
provision of the Development Agreement becomes, in its performance, 
inconsistent with state or federal law or is declared invalid, the Development 
Agreement shall be deemed amended to the extent necessary to make it 
consistent with state or federal law, as the case may be, and the balance of the 
Development Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. 
10.10 Enforcement. The Parties to this Development Agreement recognize that the 
County has the right to enforce it rules, policies, regulations, and ordinances, 
subject to the terms of this Development Agreement, and may, as its option, 
seek an injunction to compel such compliance. In the event that Developer or 
any user of the subject property violates the rules, policies, regulations or 
ordinances of the County or violates the terms of the Development Agreement as 
amended, the County may, without electing to seek an injunction and after thirty 
(30) days written notice to correct the violation (or such longer period as may be 
established in the discretion of the County Council or a court of competent 
jurisdiction if Developer has used its reasonable best efforts to cure such 
violation within such thirty (30) days and is continuing to use its reasonable best 
efforts to cure such violation), take such actions as shall be deemed appropriate 
under law until such conditions have been honored by Developer. The Parties 
further recognize that Developer has the right to enforce the provisions of the 
Development Agreement by seeking an injunction to compel compliance to the 
extent not inconsistent with the County's reserved legislative and police powers, 
as well as the County's discretionary administrative decision-making functions 
provided for herein. Both Parties shall be free from any liability arising out of the 
exercise of its rights under this paragraph; provided, however, that any Party 
may be liable to the other for the exercise of any rights in violation of Rule 11 of 
the Utah Rules of Civil1 Procedure, Rule 11 of the Federal Rules of Civil 
Procedure and/or Utah Code Annotated Section 78-27-56, as each may be 
amended. 
10.11 No Waiver. Failure of a Party hereto to exercise any right hereunder shall not be 
deemed a waiver of any such right and shall not affect the right of such Party to 
exercise at some future time said right or any other right it may have hereunder. 
Unless the Development Agreement is amended by vote of the County Council 
taken with the same formality as the vote approving this Development 
Agreement, no officer, official or agent of the County has the power to amend, 
modify or alter this Development Agreement or waive any of its conditions as to 
bind the County by making any promise or representation not contained herein. 
10.12 Entire Agreement. This Development Agreement constitutes the entire 
agreement between the Parties with respect to the issues addressed herein and 
supersedes all prior agreements, whether oral or written, covering the same 
subject matter. The Development Agreement may not be modified or amended 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
34
except in writing mutually agreed to and accepted by both Parties to the 
Development Agreement and recorded. 
10.13 Notices. Any notice, confirmation or other communication hereunder (each, a 
"Notice") shall be given in writing by certified mail, postage prepaid, or personally 
or by nationally-recognized overnight courier, at the following addresses, or by 
facsimile to the following facsimile numbers provided the transmitting facsimile 
machine shall automatically prepare a confirmation or successful facsimile 
transmission: 
 
To the County: 
 
The County Council  
Summit County Courthouse 
P.O Box 128 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
Facsimile: (435) 336-3030 
 
 
Summit County Director of Community Development 
P.O Box 128 
Coalville, Utah 84017  
 
With a copy to: 
David L. Thomas 
Chief Civil Deputy Summit County Attorney 
P.O. Box 128 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
Facsimile: (435) 336-3287  
 
To Developer: 
Colin Hilton  
President / CEO 
Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation  
PO Box 980337 
3419 Olympic Parkway  
Park City, Utah 84098  
Facsimile: (435) 658-4250 
 
With a copy to: 
 
Allison BehjaniIra B. Rubinfeld, Esq. 
Ray Quinney & Nebeker P.C. 
36 South State Street, Suite 1400 
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111  
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
35
Facsimile: (801) 532-7543 
 
 
Or to such other addresses, such other facsimile numbers, or the attention of 
such other person as either Party or their successors may designate by written 
notice. Notice shall be deemed given upon actual receipt, if personally delivered, 
when transmitted if delivered by facsimile, one (1) business day following deposit 
with a reputable overnight courier that provides a receipt, or on the third (3rd) 
day following deposit in the United States mail in the manner described above. 
 
 
10.14  Applicable Law. This Development Agreement is entered into under and 
pursuant to, and is to be construed and enforceable in accordance with, the laws 
of the State of Utah. 
10.15 Execution of Development Agreement. This Development Agreement and any 
amendments may be executed in multiple counterparts or originals or by 
facsimile copies of executed originals; provided, however, if executed and 
evidence of execution is made by facsimile copy, then an original shall be 
provided to the other Party within seven (7) days of receipt of said facsimile 
copy. 
10.16 Indemnification and Hold Harmless. Developer agrees to and shall indemnify 
and hold County, its officers, agents, employees, consultants, attorneys, special 
counsel and representatives harmless from liability: (1) for damages, just 
compensation, restitution, judicial or equitable relief arising out of claims for 
personal injury, including death, and claims for property damage which may arise 
from the direct or indirect operations of Developer or its contractors, 
subcontractors, agents, employees or other persons acting on their behalf; and 
(2) from any claim of damages, just compensation, restitution, judicial or 
equitable relief due by reason of the terms of or effect arising from the 
Development Agreement. Developer agrees to pay all costs for the defense of 
the County and its officers, agents, employees, consultants, attorneys, special 
counsel and representatives regarding any action for damages, just 
compensation, restitutions, judicial or equitable relief caused or alleged to have 
been caused by reason of Developer's actions in connection with the Olympic 
Park SPA or any claims arising out of the Development Agreement. This hold 
harmless agreement applies to all claims for damages, just compensation, 
restitution, judicial or equitable relief suffered or alleged to have been suffered by 
reason of the events referred to in this paragraph or due by reason of the terms 
of, or effects arising from the Development Agreement regardless of whether or 
not the County prepared, supplied or approved the Development Agreement, 
plans or specifications, or both, for the Project. Developer further agrees to 
indemnify, hold harmless, and pay all costs for the defense of the County, 
including fees and costs for special counsel to be selected by the County, 
regarding any action by a third party challenging the validity of the Development 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
36
Agreement or asserting that damages, just compensation, restitution, judicial or 
equitable relief is due by reason of the terms of, or effects arising from the 
Development Agreement. County may make all reasonable decisions with 
respect to its representation in any legal proceeding. 
10.16.1 Exceptions to Hold Harmless. The agreements of Developer in Article 
10.16 shall not be applicable to (i) any claim arising by reason of the 
negligence or intentional actions of the County, or (ii) any claim reserved 
by Developer under the terms of this Development Agreement for just 
compensation. 
10.16.2 Hold Harmless Procedures. The County shall give written notice of any 
claim, demand, action or proceeding which is the subject of Developer's 
hold harmless agreement as soon as practicable but not later than ten 
(10) business days after the assertion or commencement of the claim, 
demand, action or proceeding. In the event any such notice is given, the 
County shall be entitled to participate in the defense of such claim. Each 
Party agrees to cooperate with the other in the defense of any claim and 
to minimize duplicative costs and expenses. 
10.17 Relationship of Parties. The contractual relationship between the County and 
Developer arising out of the Development Agreement is one of independent 
contractor and not agency. It is specifically understood by the Parties that: (a) the 
Olympic Park SPA Plan is a private development; (b) County has no interest in, 
responsibilities for, or duty to third parties concerning any improvements to the 
Olympic Park unless the County accepts the improvements pursuant to the 
provisions of this Development Agreement or in connection with subdivision plat, 
site plan, deed, or map approval; and (c) Developer shall have the full power and 
exclusive control of the Project subject to the obligations of Developer set forth in 
the Development Agreement. 
10.18 No Third Party Beneficiaries. This Development Agreement is not intended to 
affect or create any rights or obligations on the part of third parties. 
10.19 Computation of Time. In computing any period of time pursuant to the 
Development Agreement, the day of the act, event or default from which the 
designated period of time begins to run shall be included, unless it is a Saturday, 
Sunday, or legal holiday, in which event the period shall begin to run on the next 
day which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday. 
10.20 Titles and Captions. All section titles or captions contained in the Development 
Agreement are for convenience only and shall not be deemed part of the context 
nor affect the interpretation hereof. 
10.21 Savings Clause. If any provision of the Development Agreement, or the 
application of such provision to any person or circumstance, shall be held invalid, 
the remainder of the Development Agreement, or the application of such 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
37
provision to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is held 
invalid, shall not be affected thereby. 
10.22 Force Majeure. Any default or inability to cure a default caused by strikes, 
lockouts, labor disputes, acts of God, inability to obtain labor or materials or 
reasonable substitutes therefore, enemy or hostile governmental action, civil 
commotion, fire or other casualty, or other similar causes beyond the reasonable 
control of the Party obligated to perform, shall excuse the performance by such 
Party for a period equal to the period during which any such event prevented, 
delayed or stopped any required performance or effort to cure a default. 
10.23 Severability. If any provision of the Development Agreement, or the application of 
such provision to any person or circumstance, is held invalid, void, or 
unenforceable, but the remainder of this Development Agreement can be 
enforced without failure of material consideration to any Party, then the 
remainder of the Development Agreement shall not be affected thereby and it 
shall remain in full force and effect, unless amended or modified by mutual 
consent of the Parties. If any material provision of the Development Agreement 
is held invalid, void, or unenforceable or if consideration is removed or 
destroyed, the Developer or the County shall have the right in their sole and 
absolute discretion to terminate the Development Agreement by providing written 
notice of such termination to the other Party. 
10.24 Project is a Private Undertaking. It is agreed among the Parties that the Project 
is a private development and that the County has no interest therein except as 
authorized in the exercise of its governmental functions. The Project is not a joint 
venture, and there is no such relationship involving the County. Nothing in the 
Development Agreement shall preclude the Developer and any participating 
landowner from forming any form of investment entity for the purpose of 
completing any portion of the Project. 
  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Development Agreement has been executed by Summit 
County, acting by and through the County Council of Summit County, State of Utah, 
pursuant to Ordinance No. ____820, authorizing such execution, and by a duly 
authorized representative of Developer, as of the above stated date. 
 
COUNTY COUNCIL OF  
SUMMIT COUNTY , STATE OF UTAH 
 
By:___________________________________ 
                 Tanja Hansen, Chair 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
38
Acknowledgement 
____________________________ 
Summit County Clerk 
Approved as to Form 
____________________________ 
Summit County Attorney 
UTAH ATHLETIC FOUNDATION, a Utah non -profit 
corporation  
By: _____________________________________ 
STATE OF UTAH ) 
: 
COUNTY OF SUMMIT) 
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this __________ day of _______________, 
201___ by ______________________________. 
Notary Public Residing at: _______________ 
My commission expires: _________________ 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
39
') 
- , 
(') 
', j 
.\ 
,-, 
-~ ---~✓' 
BOOK OF EXHIBITS 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Exhibit A Project & Legal Description 
A.1 Project Description 
A.2 Project Area: Parcels & Acreage 
A.3 Project Area: UOP Master Plan & Boundary 
A.4 Kimball Junction Subdivision: 
Amendment to Lots 3 & 5 
A.5 Utah Olympic Park Boundary Survey 
Revised 12/2010) 
Exhibit B Final Site Plans 
Exhibit C Land Use and Zoning Charts 
Exhibit D Architectural Guidelines 
Exhibit E Landscaping Plan 
Exhibit F Lighting Plan 
Exhibit G Comprehensive Sign Plan 
Exhibit H Community Benefits 
Exhibit I Future Olympic Transportation & 
Security Staging Areas 
Exhibit J Exchange Agreement 
Exhibit K Supplementary SPA Submittal Materials 
K.1 Traffic Study 
K.2 Construction Management 
& Mitigation Plan 
3 
9 
23 
28 
41 
43 
47 
57 
101 
103 
125 
40
EXH~B~T:A. 
' • I • . 
Proj_ec;::t _& Legal 
Descr·iption 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 3 
41
EXHIBIT A.1 Project Description 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION 
UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPECIALLY PLANNED AREA 
3419 OLYMPIC PARKWAY, PARK CITY, SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH 
The Utah Olympic Park Specially Planned Area (UOP SPA) combines a unique history and an ambitious 
future. Utah Olympic Park (Park) was integral in attracting and hosting events of the 2002 Olympic 
Winter Games and now looks to further sustain its operation by adding complementary development. The 
proposed elements will promote and serve an expanded variety of programs and users. The Utah Athletic 
Foundation d.b.a. Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation, a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization, oversees the 
392 acres of the Utah Olympic Park (previously known in the 1990's as the Utah Winter Sports Park). 
The Core Missions ofthe Foundation include efforts to: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Maintain, operate, and enhance Utah's Olympic Legacy Facilities 
Engage and involve more people - especia1ly Utah's youth - in winter sport 
Inspire, educate, and entertain the public through unique & exciting public offerings 
Improve the quality of youth sport and physical activity programs in Utah 
Ensure the long-term viability & relevance of Utah's Olympic Legacy efforts 
The Utah Olympic Park SPA will provide opportunities for the Foundation to reach these goals and 
objectives by: 
• Creating a dynamic year round Olympic Sports Campus 
• Following a set of"Guiding Principles" for development thatfooksto attract buildjng types and 
uses that will support & complement the existing Olympic Winter Training Fadlities & 
Programs, including: • • • • 
o Sports Medicine/Sport Science Facilities 
o Athlete Housing/Lodging Opportunities 
o Office Campus 
o Added family/public oriented activities 
o Increased meeting/convention space 
The UOP SPA Master Plan proposes a unique mix ofland uses focused around existing and future centers 
of sport activities. The Master Plan clusters these uses within a central campus area, prov,iding for an 
efficient, pedestrian-friendly assembly of health, recreation, anq. sport centyi:ed facilities. These planned 
uses will provide for a viable long-term strategy that will build·upon the foundation thafex;ists at Utah 
Olympic Park while creating a new synergy of uses that wiHbenefit tl:1e Park long-terµi. These uses are 
envisioned to include Offices, Sport Science facilities, Recreational Training facilities, Athlete and 
Employee Housing, Tomist and Visitor Amenities and Resort Support services. 
The Master Plan proposes a mix of public and private facilities that wiH provide the Foundation with 
varied revenue streams that may include land lease agreements, for sale properties, increased 
tourism/visitation, meeting and convention facilities, and an enhanced recreational and community user 
base. 
Building upon the existing Park facilities provides a unique opportunity to create a sustainable operating 
model. The Olympic Legacy Foundation's Boai:d and leadership are motivated to find creative ways to 
"self-sustain" itself in perpetuity through public & private partrierships promoting quality development 
projects. These efforts and envisioned activity centers will further establish the Utah Olympic Park as a 
significant destination within Summit County and the Park City region for generations to come. 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 4 
42
EXHIBIT A.1 Project Description (continued) 
• ·---, 
, 1 DESIGN TEAM 
/ 
Utah Olympic Park 
Colin Hilton 
Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation 
3419 Olympic Parkway 
P.O. Box 980337 • 
Park City, UT 84098-0337 
435.658.4200 
Development Consultant 
Steve Brown 
Millcreek Consulting & Development 
3017 E. Kempner Road 
Salt Lake City, UT 84109 
801.277 .2525 
Land Planning/Landscape 
Architecture 
Eric Langvardt, RLA 
Langvardt Design Group 
1525 Westmoreland Drive 
Salt Lake city, UT 
801.505.8090 
Architecture 
Craig Elliott 
Elliott Workgroup 
364 Main Street 
P.O. Box 3419 
Park City, Utah 84060 
801.415.1839 
Civil Engineering 
Steve Schueler & Michael Demkowitz 
Alliance Engineering 
P.O. Box 2664 
Park City, UT 84060 
435.649.9467 
Traffic Engineer 
Jon N epstad & Preston Stringer 
Fehr and Peers 
2 I 80 South 1300 East, Suite 220 
Salt Lake City, UT 84106 
801.463. 7600 
Financial Analysis 
Lauren Kn.owles 
Lodestar West, 'Inc. 
PO Box 1011 
Park City, UT 84060 
435.901.8434 
EXHIBIT A.2 Project Area: Parcels & Acreage 
PROJECT AREA: PARCELS & ACREAGE 
The Olympic Park Specially Planned Area consists of the following parcels and acreage: 
PARCEL ACRES 
KJS-5-X 5.243 
.K.JS-6- 3.000 
PP-62-3-X 2.000 
PP-62-4-X 3.000 
PP-63-A-X 254.400 
PP-65-A-X. 124.940 
Total Olympic Park Pro_ject Area 392.583 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 5 
43
\ i 
EXH~B.~T B 
Final Site Plans 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 9 
44
45
CONDOMINIUM UNITS
MEDICAL/OFFICE BUILDING
ATHLETE AND WORKFORCE HOUSING
46
EXH~B~TC 
Land Use & Zoning 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 23 
47
EXHIBIT C Land Use & Zoning Charts (continued) 
Ma.ndlatoiry Landi. Use JPhuaninng Principles 
Dedication & Preservation ofViewshed/Environmental Features 
) 
Description: Preservation ofviewsheds shall, when possible, include the retention of all or major 
portions of all meadow and hillside viewsheds all ridgelines, and significant environmental features such 
as all waterways and non-jurisdictional wetlands, wildlife habitat, wildfire hazard areas, historic and 
cultural artifacts, and geologic features. This is to be accomplished by, among other things, minimizing 
the removal of vegetation from the site and the amount of over lot grading required to fit the project into 
the natural landscape. These important features of the predevelopment landscape shall be as identified on 
the applicable land use plan map or by field inspection at the time of a development application. 
Accomplished by: 
Retention of all visual hillside viewsheds and ridgelines within the Sun Peak/Silver Springs Neighborhood 
and West Mountain Neighborhood Planning areas as viewed from Highway 224. Development is restricted to 
the least environmentally and visually sensitive and most developable areas of the property. Development 
area is clustered in the existing saddle adjacent to existing structures and parking areas. Development is 
placed to minimize the removal of significant vegetation. 
Consistency with Desired Neighborhood Character 
Description: Development shall be compatible with the desired neighborhood development pattems and 
policies identified in the Snyderville Basin General Plan and both the applicable neighborhood planning 
r· 
area plan and land use plan map. Minor development that exceeds base densities sh:;iU ensure econ01ny of (" ·, 
service delivery not only for Summit County and special service districts, but also to residents of the "·· 
development. At least sixty percent (60%) of the total development parcel(s) that exceed base density 
shall be maintained as open space in a manner that is consistent with the goals and objectives of the 
Snyderville Basin Development Code. In certain instances, development, at the option of Summit County 
and when requested in writing by the developer, may make a cash in lieu of open sp<1ce contribution to 
Summit County for the purposes of acquiring open space and open use recreation facilities at another 
location. 
Accomplished by: 
Utah Olympic Park is an existing Center of development located in an established develQpment node. Utah 
Olympic Park property is compatible with desired West Mountain neighborhood development patterns of the 
General Plan and supports the recreational and resort nature of the region. The Resort Center is a 
complementary use to the existing West Mountain neighborhood, plus provides for on-site housing 
opportunities for employees and athletes of the proposed SP A uses. Ensures economy of service delivery to 
Summit County, service districts and residents of the Community through the use of a clustered "Resort 
Center" Land Plan. The plan meets and exceeds the 60% open space minimum. 
Community & Neighborhood Recreation Facilities 
Description: Development shall provide appropriate neighborhood recreation and trail facilities, in tenns 
of location, type, and variety that meet the specific neighborhood resident demands that will be generated 
by the development project. The areas designated for such uses shall not simply be left over spaces within 
a development. They shall be appropriate in terms of size and quality for the intended use. The specific 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 24 
48
) 
._.,/ 
EXHIBIT C Land Use & Zoning Charts (continued) 
recreation and trail facilities provided shall be adequate to satisfy the neighborhood demand. While 
consideration shall b.e given to standards established in the Code, the unique characteristics of the 
neighborhood shall be taken into consideration in determining specific requirements. The· long term care 
of these facilities shall be the responsibility of the developer or subsequent residents of the project. In 
certain instances, development with minimal units, at the option of Summit County and when requested in 
writing by the developer, may make a cash in lieu of facility contribution to the Snyderville Basin Special 
Recreation District to fulfill required neighborhood requirements. Written agreement apprpving the 
contribution and use of the funds shall require the consent of the Sriyderville Basin Special Recreation 
District. Community contributions shall include the provision/dedication of sufficient land to 
accommodate public trail links/connections identified on the Recreation and Trails Master Plan. A 
development's contribution may occur on or off site, so long as the contribution is consistent with the 
intent of and serves the purpose identified in the Master Plan. 
Accomplished by: 
The Resort Center development does not create significant resident demands for Neighborhood Recreational 
Facilities. Existing trails are available for on-site workforce and athlete resident's use. • • 
2 55' 
3 55' 
4 40' 
5 40' 
6 32' 
7 63' 
8 63' 
9 63' 
-63' 
11 50' 
12 50' 
13 50' 
14 50' 
Totals 
LAND USE & ZONING: Chm11 
23,950 
22,080 . 
2,800 
40,000 
6,200 
68;275 
38,000 
6,700 
20,ll0 
6,000 
20,500 
15,000 
7,500 
295,5~5 
COMMERCIAL. 
/RETAIL .• 
SUPPORT . 'i ., 
2,000· 
2,000 
3,875 • 
2,000 
9,875 
i PRINCiPLE' 
,.USES, 
Workforce/ Athlete Housing 
Workforce/Athlete Housing 
Workforce/ Athlete Housing 
Workforce/ Athlete Housing 
:Office/Medical 
Athlete Support/Reception 
Office/Athlete 
Stmport/Commercial 
Office/Athlete ~upport 
Office/Athlete Support 
Athlete Support 
Athlete Support 
Athlete Support/Residential 
Athlete Support/Residential 
Athlete Support/Residential· 
Notes: Development square footages may be placed in any development parcel within the SPA .. No 
maximum square footages within development parcels are established or requir~d provided the proposed 
development meets all SPA and/or Summit County Development Standards. • 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 25 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
49
Previous 
Parcels
New 
Parcels
Previous 
Height
Proposed 
Height
Previous Max 
sf
New Max sf Change 
in sf Previous Uses Proposed Uses
1 55 18,400 workforce/athlete housing
2 55 23,950 workforce/athlete housing
3 55 22,080 workforce/athlete housing
64,430
4 2 40 40 2,800 6126 3,326 workforce/athlete housing
athlete support and jump 
operations
5 40 40,000 office medical
6 32 6,200 athlete support/reception
7 63 68,275 office/athlete support/commercial
8 63 38,000 office/athlete support
152,475
9 63 6,700 office/athlete support
10 63 20,110 athlete support
11 50 6,000 athlete support
32,810
12 Moved 50 20,500 -20,500 athlete support/residential -
13 6 50 50 15,000 -15,000 athlete support/residential athlete support/lodging
14 Moved 50 7,500 31,850 24,350 athlete support/residential -
- 5 50 0 25,990 25,990
athlete 
support/operations/lodging
- 7 50 0 3,900 3,900 athlete support/operations
New 
Proposed 
Total SF
     545,230.00 
Total 
Change in 
SF -57,842
workforce/athlete housing
conference/lodging/office/sports 
performance/parking/welcome 
center
athlete 
support/storage/maintenance
63
1
3
4 24284
-8,526
55
63
43771
-20,659
101752
-50,723
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
50
EXHIBIT C Land Use & Zoning Charts ( contir-iued) • 
LAND USE & ZONING: Chart 2 
'Uses " A'.llowed ,Low Iippact Conditional Te111por-ar:y 
Accessory Buildings unqer 2,000sf including X Athlete Support; 
Accessory Buildiags between 2,000_sf and 
1 O,OOOsf including Atb'lete Suoo0rt X 
Accessory Buildings over 1 O,OOOsf including X Athlete Support· • • • 
·• 
Art/Sculpture/ Archit~ctui;al Jeon X 
Athlete Support Facilities X 
Bars, Taverns, Private Clubs X 
Beauty Shop, Barber X .. 
Bed and Breakfast Inn X 
Building and Maintenance Services X 
Car Port, Private X 
Child Care, C0mmeFcjal X ... 
,_-· 
Churches, Schools; Institutional Uses X 
·, 
' .. 
Construction Trailer/Offices ' X 
Cultural Activity X 
DweUing Unit, Accessory under 1,000sf X 
Dwelling Unit, _Loft X 
Dwelling Unit, Athlete, PoFmitory X 
Dwelling Unit, Multi-Family X 
Dwelling Unit, Multi-Family, Townhouse X 
Dwelling Unit, Single-Family Detached X 
Event Tent, Priv.ate X 
Food Cart, Outd9or/Mobile Food V~ndor X 
Health Care Facilities· X 
flotel, Inn X 
Indoor Entertainment, Commercial X 
Laundromat X 
Maintenance Facility, Park or HOA X 
Newsstand X 
Property Management Offices/Check-in X Facilities 
Offices, General X 
Offices, Medical and Dental X 
Open Recreation Uses X 
Outdoor Dining X 
Outdoor Display of Merchandise, on premise X 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 26 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
51
EXHIBIT C Land Use & Zoning Charts (continued) 
••• ) 
Parks X 
Parking Structure, stand-alone above ground X 
Parking Lot, Surface or under Building X Footprint 
Property Management X 
Public Facilities X 
Reception Center X 
Recreation, Public X 
Recreation and Athletic Facilities, Commercial X I 
Recreation and Athletic Facilities, Private X 
Restaurant, Deli or take out, Neighborhood X 
Restaurant, Full Service X 
Retail Sales, Associated with Recreation X Commercial 
Retail Sales, Food X 
Retail Sales, General X 
Ski Lifts, New X 
Signs X 
Skating Rink, Outdoor X 
Ski Lifts, Replacement X 
Ski Runs, New X 
Storage UOP or Maintenance X 
Swimming Pool, Public and Private X 
Telecommunication Facilities X 
Temporary Structures X 
Trailhead X 
Trails, Community Wide X 
Transportation services/ Facilities X 
Utility Facilities, Underground X 
Utility Facilities, Above-Ground X 
Utility Facilities, Maior X 
Vehicle Control Gate -x 
Vendor,Short-Term X 
Notes: 
1. All uses not listed herein but shown within the specific SPA Plan Book of Exhibits shall be allowed uses. 
2. Recreational open space areas may include all recreational activities and/or facilities necessa,y to support 
Utah Olympic Park goals and objectives. 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 27 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
52
LAND USE & ZONING: Chart 2 
Uses Allowed Low Impact Conditional Temporary 
Accessory Buildings under 2,000sf including 
Athlete Support X    
Accessory Buildings between 2,000sf and 
10,000 sf including Athlete Support 
 X   
Accessory Buildings over 10,000sf including 
Athlete Support 
  X  
Art/Sculpture/Architectural Icon  X   
Athlete Support Facilities X    
Bars, Taverns, Private Clubs   X  
Beauty Shop, Barber X    
Bed and Breakfast Inn   X  
Building and Maintenance Services X    
Car Port, Private  X   
Child Care, Commercial X    
Churches, Schools, Institutional Uses X    
Construction Trailer/Offices    X 
Cultural Activity   X   
Dwelling Unit, Accessory under 1,000sf X    
Dwelling Unit, Loft X    
Dwelling Unit, Athlete, Dormitory X    
Dwelling Unit, Multi-Family X    
Dwelling Unit, Multi-Family, Townhouse X    
Dwelling Unit, Single-Family Detached X    
Event Tent, Private X    
Food Cart, Outdoor/Mobile Food Vendor X    
Health Care Facilities X    
Hotel, Inn   X     X      
Indoor Entertainment, Commercial X    
Laundromat X    
Maintenance Facility, Park or HOA X    
Newsstand X    
Property Management Offices/Check-in 
Facilities  X    
Offices, General X    
Offices, Medical and Dental X    
Open Recreation Uses  X   
Outdoor Dining X    
Outdoor Display of Merchandise, on premise  X   
Parks X    
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
53
 
Stand alone Above-Ground Parking Structure   X  
Parking Lot, Surface or under Building 
Footprint X    
Property Management  X   
Public Facilities  X   
Reception Center X    
Recreation, Public  X    
Recreation and Athletic Facilities, Commercial X    
Recreation and Athletic Facilities, Private  X   
Restaurant, Deli or take out, Neighborhood  X   
Restaurant, Full Service  X   
Retail Sales, Associated with Recreation 
Commercial X    
Retail Sales, Food X    
Retail Sales, General  X   
Ski Lifts, New  X     X      
Signs  X   
Skating Rink, Outdoor X    
Ski Lifts, Replacement X    
Ski Runs, New  X     X      
Storage UOP or Maintenance X    
Swimming Pool, Public and Private  X   
Telecommunication Facilities  X   
Temporary Structures    X 
Trailhead X    
Trails, Community Wide X    
Transportation services/ Facilities  X   
Utility Facilities, Underground X    
Utility Facilities, Above-Ground  X   
Utility Facilities, Major   X  
Vehicle Control Gate X    
Vendor, Short Term    X 
     
Notes:     
1.  All uses not listed herein but shown within the specific SPA Plan Book of Exhibits shall be allowed 
uses. 
2.  Recreational open space areas may include all recreational activities and/or facilities necessary to 
support Utah Olympic Park goals and objectives. 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
54
C) 
Architectural 
Guidelines 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 28 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
55
EXHIBIT D Architectural Guidelines 
The purpose of the architectural design 
guidelines is to provide direction for 
development of the vertical elements of the 
Utah Olympic Park in order to achieve a 
built environment that is in harmony with 
the natural setting, existing structures 
where appropriate, and provides a 
comfortable~ distinctive, and stimulating 
environment. Two distinct styles of 
architecture exist at the park. These styles 
were developed in different eras with 
different goals. The first phase buildings 
are modern interpretations of mountain 
lodge structures. The second phase 
structures were built as machines of sport. 
The goal of the design of new structures is 
to incorporate both styles into a new 
architectural expression that connects the 
two previous styles and creates a strong 
aesthetic that can stand on it's own. 
UTAH 
OLYMPIC 
PARK 
Day Lodge depicting a modern interpretation of a mountain lodge. 
Joe Quinney Museum design inspired as machines of sport. 
A □ Gl 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 29 
( 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
56
EXHIBIT D Architectural Guidelines (continued) 
o Each new building or combination of 
buildings should have a distinct 
architectural concept that is consistent in 
theme but rich in subtle variation. 
11 Buildings should be designed to provide a 
clear, unified, and easily identifiable 
image. Methods to achieve this include 
using similar architectural styles and 
materials, complementary roof forms, 
signs, colors, and pavement. 
m All buildings should relate visually to one 
another, be compatible with adjacent 
buildings, and not obscure desirable views 
from nearby proposed buildings. 
11 Encouraged architectural qualities and 
design elements for Utah Olympic Park 
buildings are: 
e Building modulation and 
architectural details; 
ct Building entry accentuation; 
e Screening of equipment and storage 
areas; and 
e Landscaping to soften building 
exteriors and buffer between uses. 
e Minimize visual impact to Kimball 
Junction. 
Clearly identifiable building form. 
Landscaping as a buffer between uses. 
ADG2 
October 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 30 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
57
EXHIBIT D Architectural Guidelines (continued) 
fl The height and mass of Utah Olympic 
Park buildings should consider the visual 
and physical relationship to adjacent uses. 
A structure that dominates its 
environment by its relative size is 
prohibited. 
m The mass of a larger building should be 
broken down into a group of buildings 
clustered into traditional building 
compounds or a campus setting to create 
a sense of community and shelter. 
m Building design should employ clean, 
simple, geometric forms and coordinated 
massing to produce overall unity, scale, 
and interest. 
11 Varying building heights/massing and 
setbacks to define different functions such 
as offices and residential is encouraged. 
11 Buildings should relate to the terrain and 
each other in their massing and forms. 
Larger masses should be located at the 
centers of building compositions, with 
smaller forms stepping outwards and 
down. • 
m Design buildings to follow natural terrain 
and help break up mass. Use landscape 
materials to reinforce tiered building 
forms. "Stepped down approaches" are 
especially appropriate for breaking up 
larger structures. 
Clustered buildings with simple forms following the terrain. 
ADG3 
October 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 31 
( 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
58
EXHIBIT D Architectural Guidelines (continued) 
11 Variety in building forms should be 
employed to create visual character and 
interest. 
11 Facades with a high level of visual interest 
from both vehicular and pedestrian 
viewpoints on site are encouraged. The 
exterior character of all buildings should 
enhance pedestrian activity in their 
immediate vicinities. 
11 Long building facades should be broken up 
with architectural details. Facades with 
varied front setbacks are encouraged to 
provide visual interest. 
mAII building facades should provide 
building offsets. 
,- ) 11 Entrances to individual buildings should be 
readily identifiable to visitors through the 
use of recesses or pop-outs, roof elements, 
columns, or other architectural elements. 
Variety of form. 
" High level of visual interest. 
) 
·..,~____,./ 
ADG4 
October 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIB.ITS I 32 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
59
EXHIBIT D Architectural Guidelines (continued) 
m Roofs should be integral to the 
architectural theme of Utah Olympic Park 
buildings and contribute to the visual 
continuity. Rooflines of business park 
buildings should include variations to avoid 
long, continuous planes. 
m Rooftops should be considered as design 
elements from various viewpoints: at 
ground level, from other buildings, and 
from adjacent perimeter roadways. Mixing 
roof forms on buildings creates variety in 
the "roofscape." Roofs should also be 
interesting when seen from above in higher . . 
b 'Id' f I I f th Roof as an integral architectural theme. u1 mgs or rom upper eve s o e 
mountain terrain. 
111 Rooftop equipment shall be screened from 
view on all four sides by architectural 
features integrated with the design of the 
building. 
m Roof design shall allow solar panels to be 
integrated into the roof design, flush with 
the roof slope. Building orientation and 
shading design should minimize solar gain 
and maximize daylight harvesting. 
l}:'/ff:T 
: :~;. ·: 
~ ! ' 
Roof as a design element. 
ADG5 
October 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 33 
( 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
60
EXHIBIT D Architectural Guidelines (continued) 
' • 
' Materials and Color ' 
11 Materials should be chosen to withstand 
abuse by vandals or accidental damage by 
":'achinery. Fals~ facades and other . \,;r-,;;},.-'., <::,;) __ -·. 
simulated materials and ornamentation are f{({f/ ;'-,:-:::)::J'.-f'. 
discouraged. 
11 Clear or lightly tinted low-e glass (glazing) 
should be used, particularly at pedestrian 
levels where transparency between indoor 
and outdoor spaces is desirable. ~)fi· ;:,,,,.~t.1'J..,1. . {:'0 ,_...:...,.---... < '· 
11 The use of various siding material (i.e. 
masonry, concrete, metal, or wood siding 
to produce effects of texture and relief that 
provide architectural interest) are 
encouraged. 
11 Storage containers or accessory structures 
. • , .. ... ~- ,.. ' 
--,, __ : 
'~ ' . 
~' . ' 
Example of Material Palette. 
: ··) shall be architecturally treated on all four 
___,, exterior sides of the building. 
J 
11 Storage containers or accessory structures 
should employ-a variety of building forms, 
materials, colors and other architectural 
treatments to add visual interest. 
11 The use of compatible colors in a single 
facade or composition is required. 
Compatible colors add interest and variety 
while reducing building scale and breaking 
up plain walls. 
•A color palette should be used on Utah 
Olympic Park buildings to help reduce their 
perceived size. Contrasting trim and color Example of Material Palette. 
bands that help break up the vertical 
monotony of flat walls are encouraged. 
ADG6 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 34 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
61
EXHIBIT D Architectural Guidelines 
November 27, 2012 
Additional Information dated December 11, 2012 shown in orange 
Response to Questions and Comments about the Development Agreement 
Questions are shown in Italics. Response follows: 
ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN GUIDELINES: 
EXHIBIT 0. 1 (Incorporation of both styles) - Do all buildings have to be hybrids or can one building be 
more traditional and another less traditional? 
The intent is to combine the aesthetics of the existing buildings in the design of the new buildings. 
EXHIBIT 0.2 (Each new building should have an architectural .. .) - if there are 14 dorm buildings, does it 
mean each building should have a distinct architectural concept? Maybe say "each occupancy use" 
instead of "building" if we want housing to look alike? 
The intent is to create a greater interest in the architecture. See change to : "new building or 
combination of buildings" 
EXHIBIT D.2 (General Guidelines) - Buildings should be designed to provide ... Does this mean that 
image is identifiable for the rest of the phase or the project? 
This was intended to create a more cohesive project. 
EXHIBIT 0.2 (General Guidelines)-AII buildings should relate visually. .. Does this mean that image is 
identifiable for the rest of the phase or the project? 
It means that the buildings in the project should relate visually. It doesn't mean that they are to be exact 
copies or exactly the same. 
What hopefully will happen is that the common theme of materials will tie the separate buildings together 
into a new identity, and simultaneously allow for variety in building mass and form. 
EXHIBIT 0.2 (General Guidelines) - Encouraged architectural qualities ... Add "adherence to minimal 
visual impact to Kimball Junction." These should include lighting, use of reflective materials, overall 
"looming" appearance over Kimball Junction. 
Our first meetings with the Planning Commission resulted in a request to provide a greater presence to 
Kimball Junction. If this Commission wants less visibility that can be added. See addition of: "Minimize 
visual impact to Kimball Junction" 
EXHIBIT 0.3 (Height and Mass) -A structure that dominates its environment is strongly discouraged. 
Strike "strongly discouraged" and state "prohibited." 
See change to: "prohibited" 
364 Main Street * P.O. Box 3419 * Park City, Utah * 84060 * 435-649-0092 * elliottworkgroup.com 
000700 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 35 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
62
EXHIBIT D Architectural Guidelines 
EXHIBIT 0.3 (Height and Mass) - The mass of a larger building should be broken down ... Does this 
mean into separate buildings or the illusion of looking like separate buildings? 
That should be up to the Architect based on the program requirements of the building. Reference design 
images submitted. 
Understanding that the goal is to give the design architects and reviewing agency clear direction, I would 
say that there is no reason to create a visual illusion of separate buildings. The layout of the project with 
it's change in terrain and form for building pads provides significant variety. It does dictate that the 
building have real changes in facade plane and roof heights. Listing specific dimensions for these 
changes in plane though will not guarantee good architecture and might in turn hinder the approval of a 
great design. I trust the Planning Staff and Planning Commission to have a clear dialogue about the 
design of each building. 
EXHIBIT 0.3 (Height and Mass).,... Varying building heights/massing and setbacks ... Since it is not a 
residential project and more of a mixed use, define the other uses and not just include the residential. 
All this section is saying is to provide visual cues in the design that identify different uses. The two uses 
listed were merely listed as an example. Thus the use of "such as" in the sentence immediately before 
"offices and residential". 
EXHIBIT 0.3 (Height and Mass) - Design buildings to step back and down ... Strike "back and step down. 
11 
See change: "back and step down" 
EXHIBIT 0.4 (Building Design) - Variety in building forms ... On previous page it states uniformity and 
geometry, so coordinate the two pages. 
There is no conflict between these two sections. "Clean, simple, geometric forms" can have "variety". 
I would consider additional language or modifications from the planning commission for this section. 
EXHIBIT 0.4 (Building Design) - Facades with a high level of visual interest... Is it on site only or Kimball 
Junction? Add "on site" or "distance" to define it better. 
It is intended to be on site, since there is an intention to diminish the visual impression from Kimball 
Junction. See addition of: "on site" 
EXHIBIT 0.4 (Building Design) - Long building facades should be broken up ... Everything up to this point 
is not allowing them, so why is it even mentioned in this bullet? 
It provides another tool and is specific. No changes made. 
The reason for this is to ultimately allow some options for a potential building such as a bobsled and luge 
start house training facility. It will be a long narrow building by it's nature, but it could also be very 
expressive by using some of the ideas developed for the Olympics with the buildings being machines of 
sport. 
2 
~ 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 36 
o o o f30 o 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
63
EXHIBIT D Architectural Guidelines 
EXHIBIT D.4 (Building Design) - Rear and side wall elevations ... Strike "rear and sidewall" and state "all 
building facades should provide building offsets." 
See change: "All building facades should provide building offsets." 
EXHIBIT 0.5 (Roofs) - Rooflines of business park buildings should. .. Strike this sentence. 
See change: "Rooflines of business parl< buildings should include variations to avoid long, 
continuous planes." 
EXHIBIT 0.5 (Roofs) - Roofs should also be interesting when seen ... Is this even necessary since the ski 
jump and runs are the only ones on higher elevations? 
The park has multiple reasons to include this portion on roofs. Summer visitors go to the upper parts of 
the park to use recreation amenities. The added trail connections will provide hikers and bikers with 
views to the development and future TV broadcasts will be part of the park's future. 
Additional language requiring interesting roof forms could be added if deemed necessary. 
EXHIBIT 0.5 (Roofs) - Rooftop equipment should be screened from view. .. It should state "shall" not 
"should." 
See change: "shall" 
EXHIBIT D.5 (Roofs) - Building orientations and shading design ... It should state "shall minimize" not 
"should." Rooflines of business park buildings should ... Strike this sentence. 
Requiring minimization is too vague and in many instances may not be possible on this site. Sentence 
has been struck. 
Respectfully Submitted, 
• • ~. . . 
. ,gEmo~ 
3 
( 
OCTOBER 2013 
0 0 0 90 0 
UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 37 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
64
EXHIBIT D Architectural Guidelines 
SPORTS MEDICINE BUILDING ALONG PARK APPROACH 
(~' -"""' f \ 
eUio.tt . . . . worKgroup 
architecture 
. i[;~;i:f :j 
~ 
0::: 
~ 
(.) 
a.. 
~ 
>- ....I 
_J ~ 
0-
:c~ <( :::> 
I- ~ :::) 85 
~ ::, 
r:: z ::, 
0 
(.) 
>-,l 
" ::, 
<I) 
UTAH A~.~ 11~ 7NOATJON 
PAAK~"!:,UOQI 
Q 
SEFTEMBER!l,21111 
51-CETTITIE: 
ARCHITECTURAL 
VERNACULAR 
SHllJNUt.18ER. 
• El• lO 
) 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
65
( 
'--.__,..,· 
(--.,. 
\_) 
EXHIBIT D Architectural Guidelines 
-------; 
.,..,.-:-•,r::v-rs::,;-'s:::,.,, .. ....;,. :: -":l~."·r· ... ,~.~ .... 
OFFICE/RESORT SUPPORT MIXED USE BUILDING 
' ·~' 
emmt ~ifturflroup 
~ 
rl'.'. <( 
0.. 
t) 
0.. 
~ 
>- ...I 
....J ~ 0-
I~ <( :::> 
I-~ ::J a.. Cf) 
PREPAREOFOR: 
~ g 
::, 
8 
t: 
i ::, 
en 
UTAH A~~~f~ 1NOATION 
PAR\~UT..C:,&Ua 
Q 
SEP'TEMBERB,2011 
PROJECT: 000.DOOOJXI 
SHEET nllE: 
ARCHITECTURAL 
VERNACULAR 
SHlETNUMBER: 
o o o ~lo e 
UTAHOI.YMPICPARl(SPAPI.AHUPDATm800KOF[DHSITSJJ9 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
66
EXHIBIT D Architectural Guidelines 
OCTOBER 2013 
,.-----
( ' 
\ 
.,--_ 
I' 't 
' I 
-. t . · ,,., ,·: ,-_.~; < :~};~\::1fc;}"{ff~: '.] ·NEH/\l' 'EOcalHG>n '"'if''• :1• 
::~f;j{i';lilit}f /!~1:II]' 
~2 
UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 40 
·~ 
J 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
67
EXH~B~T E 
Landscqp:ing_Plan 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 41. 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
68
HV.1./l '.UNnO::> ll~~ns ~ 
~ 
<9 
~ ~-! 7Vl.111/118nS VdS I ~i~ij! ~2· 
)l~v'd 81dl/\JA 70 Hv'ln i ~.L ~·i ti t ~ 
d g 
~ 
w • f • 
~ !: d n • • 
)~}(}~-:--~----!•------------•----------------
/ />'°'1\ 1\;b I •1 ,, 'I l I 1 \d I 
;\ii\ I: 1:\1\ij I 
1'.i,y 13 ·: j. )NI\ J ·:,,,1·'!,i\!\\i' - ,·:c, ,,,,,.-' ',/! .. 1tl\J11l\,\~?k"" 
";t ~ - I 1\ q L'..::~..:~a§::::1~':;:: 
! 
l 
I 
! ! ! ! 11 
111111111111111 
~ II 1 
t::::::-/'.·.r:t:::i<''•,·.·/. • .. ~. • ·~· • .. - ':iii11 ; 1 1lllml1111l1i 
Ii\)//\ i _: ,_ -" • 1B;'.:· :- , !1tl1 .. 1 ~-+. • 
; .)i;,._. . . ,. . ijl. ~ . 1.1 z 
f:'/' • -'- :· • ..:_· ,ci:;:: • .:.._ /\ ~ m . 
!· - .,··- ' +· '\, a. ~ 
- '\. , ~ ' :\\\ 3 
~~ii ~*];SW '-<:::....'.\'::::::· '""'illill.,,,,~\ '"'. i .. 
\ \. 
~ a. 
wW u,a. 
«« mO 
11 "' □ 
z , 
:3 • • 
I f ; It 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
69
,.. 
EXH~B~T F 
Lig_hting ~=llan 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 43 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
70
EXHIBIT F Lighting Plan 
LIGHTING PLAN 
FOR THE UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPECIALLY PLANNED AREA 
3419 OLYMPIC PARKWAY,PARKCITY, SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH 
December 5, 2012 
The below statements correlate with the Utah Olympic Park Resort Center SPA Submittal, Exhibit B: 
Final Site Plans on sheet 19 showing conceptual locations. 
Lighting Standards within Utah Olympic Park shall conform to the Snyderville Basin Development Code 
Section 10-4-22 unless otherwise identified to deviate from those standards below. These standards are 
intended to allow reasonable enjoyment and practical use of all Olympic Park venues, facilities and 
amenities, providing adequate lighting levels of parking and pedestrian areas, while also protecting 
adjacent property owners and residents of Snyderville Basin. 
GENERAL STANDARDS 
High-pressure sodium is the lamp source to be utilized throughout the Snyderville Basin for all roadway, 
pathway, area and building facade illumination. Sport facility or outdoor recreation lighting is the only 
application where a metal halide lamp source may by used, subject to the limitati0ns herein. No 
floodlighting shall be pennitted. Light Standards may include prefabricatt;d or cust0m poles, arms and 
fixtures to complement the existing and proposed architectural and signage styles. Fixtures shall be of a 
full cutoff variety. Foot Candles shall meet or exceed the requirements within the €ode for each 
respective Light type. 
Lighting use will generally plan and implement fixture use so as t0 miµimize bleeding/spillover. 
Additionally, as technology and light fixture efficiencies are improved over time, the Utah Olympic Park 
commits to replace outdated fixtures with new energy efficient light.fixtures as.finances allow. 
LIGHTING APPLICATIONS 
Parking Lot Lighting 
A. For new parking areas, parking lot fixtures shall not be mo11ntedm0Fe than si~teen feet (16') 
above grade, as measured to the top of the fixture or a h0ri20ntal plane being lit by th.e fixture. 
Existing parking lot fixtures with above grade heights of twenty-four feet (24') are aUowed. Any 
enlargements to existing parking lots shall allow fixtures to 1:11atch the height, style, and type of 
existing fixtures. 
B. The fixture lamp shall not exceed four hundred ( 400) watts per p0le. 
C. Fixtures shall be used in interior parking/site installations only. 
D. Timers and motion sensor devices shall be used wherever practical to minimize light pollution 
within the Snyderville Basin. 
Roadway Lighting 
A. Roadway pole fixtures shall not exceed twenty-five feet (25') in height. 
B. Fixtures should house a high-pressure sodium lamp, not to exceed one hundred fifty (150) 
watts/pole. 
C. Fixtures should have die-cast aluminum housing, and shal'l be a type Ii, III or IV distribution 
pattern. 
D. Decorative roadway pole-mounted fixtures: 
• Shall not be mounted above sixteen feet (16') above grade. 
• Shall house a high-pressure sodium lamp, with no more than one hundred fifty (150) 
watts/pole. 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 44 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
71
EXHIBIT F Lighting Plan (continued) 
Area Lighting, Pedestrian Walkways, Plazas, etc. 
A. New area lighting fixtures shall not be mounted more than twelve feet (12') above grade directly 
below the fixture, as measured to the top of the fixture or a horizontal plane being lit by the 
fixture. For existing area lighting, any enlargements or modifications to these areas would look 
. to match those heights and lighting fixture type. 
B. The fixture shall house a high-pressure sodium lamp, not to exceed one hundred fifty (150) watts 
per pole. 
Building Canopy/Soffit Lighting 
A. !flighting an area with fixtures mounted on a canopy, or off of a soffit of a building, the fixture 
cannot be mounted above twenty feet (20'), as measured from the top of the fixture to the adjacent 
grade or the horizontal plane being lit by the fixture. Such lighting shall be minimized to the 
extent possible. 
B. The fixture should house a high-pressure sodium lamp, not to exceed one hundred fifty (150) 
watts. 
C. Canopy/soffit-mounted fixtures should be mounted a minimum distance of seventy feet (70') 
from the circulation area, or other critical light cutoff boundaries. 
D. Lights should be integrated into the buildings architectural features in order to maximize 
effectiveness while minimizing exposure. 
Building Facade Lighting 
Any proposal for building facade lighting is subject to County approval. As a general rule it will not be 
allowed. It may be considered if the following apply: 
A. The building surface being lit is not in the line of sight of any residential living unit. 
B. The facade lighting shall be turned off by ten o'clock (10:00 p.m.) each night, and not turned on 
until dusk the following day. 
Sport Lighting 
A. Sport lighting fixtures should not be mounted above seventy feet (70'), as measured from the top 
of the fixture to the adjacent grade or the horizontal plane being lit by the fixture. 
B. Fixtures should house lamps not to exceed one thousand five hundred (1,500) watts. 
C. Lighting for outdoor recreation uses should be shut off no later than eleven o'clock (11 :00 
p.m.). Lighting dm:ation may need to be expanded periodically for special events, facility 
maintenance that includes such activities as: ice making on the bobsled track, and snowmaking on 
the ski jumps. 
Landscape/Holiday Lighting 
Lighting may occur year round within public plaza ot public use spaces for holiday, seasonal or landscape 
lighting to include strand lighting on trees, over pedestrian spaces or up lighting on landscape or 
sculptural elements within or adjacent to these spaces. 
Existing Facility Lighting 
A. It is recognized that the original Utah Winter Sports Park (now named Utah Olympic Park) was 
built under the State of Utah oversight in the early 1990s. Therefore, lighting standards and 
facility specifications do not completely conform to local code. 
B. Where financially practical and prudent, the Utah Athletic Foundation commits to update and 
replace old and failing fixtures to meet local code. 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 45 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
72
EXHIBIT F Lighting Plan (continued) 
~1:1 11],l rfj',fi i I i' : 1 1 •• \; 
. 1~L'.(I]'r\:I}+~~ :~~~~~ • 
,;w • .LJ..j:.I LlJHJ! I 
n 41 ~}.! TTTT:\J , 
i~~il~i
1
'WH l,~1 .~ ,1fi'!R!\~~\1\~ ~~I~~ .. . 
! I I 11 rl I i I ! 11 \· \-H-1+1-mtW = ,';,: ....• ,J:.+~ :
1
:;( !\ i;,\\:S{··1\\\~Y~\I':~::.: .=c.c'.~ • .! ,' •. I 
'' 'I! I •l I '. y ' • - .,~~ ~ r,;~:;:'1:w{::f~~~~;~~~:~~~~~,~~~~1~f~~c~~~t\~i 
"'""·'·'&'"'~=,···~~,\\\\,1\\1~~\~\''~ ',\. ·. \'. .. 
-~=·"c::~::~:f ':~2~;C!~W~:lli~~;\~~~!. · • \>(,, 
\, '\_,~.,no,~•~•-•""" ,.=.,•~"'«'--•" \\ 
"~·-::-u~,_:.;;·•.r~~~~~" • \ _________ _j 
-OI.YMPICTOWEAUGHllN(ITQW.TCH 
·• .. •c:~i~i;;f~t\~i[it!tf;J:::j; .Ji ,~f~~~!=~~ 
0 MONUMENT/TENANT SIGN 
IIUll.OUIGIDENllFICATION 
GD VEHICULAR DIRECTIONAL SIGN 
INFOIU,l,\TIClN/DIRECTlONAGU~CE 
• PARKING AREA LIGHTING 
16' LIGHT STANDARD· TO MATCH EXISTING 
HIGHPR!!SSURESOOIIJMLAMP•MM•OOWATTS 
0 WALK!NAY AREA LIGHTING 
10' UGHTSTANDAAD·TO MATCH EXISTING 
HIGI-IPRESSURESODIUMLAMP•IMX 100WATTS 
• WALK!NAY BOLLARD LIGHTING 
t•:._.-_:::. 
NOTES: 
1. AU. PROPOSED UGHTING SHALL CONFORM TO SECTION \()-4..,22 Of THE StMlERW.LE 
BASINDEVELOPMENTCOOE. • 
2. ALL LIGl{TING WILL BE DESIGNED ev AN ELECTRICAL ENGINEER AT TIME OF FINAL SITE 
PLAN SUDMITIALS FOR EACli RESPECTIVE PHASE OF CONSTRUCTION. 
3 IIVILDINGUGHTlHGWIU.BEPROVIDEDi\TTNETIMEOFINDMOUALBUII.DINGPlAN • 
SUBMITTALS, • 
,.AOOCTION.o\LLANBSCAPEllGHTINGWILLBEPRO\IDEeWITHINPUBUCSPACESANBAT 
MONUM!:HT AND OIRECTIONAl.SIGNS i\S PER ~HE OEVEI.OPMENT AGREEMENT. 
5. Al.LSIGNAGEANO UGHTINB LOCATIONS SHOWff ARE SUBJECT TOMOOIACATIONS 
BASED ON ACTUAL SIT£ CONJITIONS AND SIGNAGE REQUIREt.lENTS. 
SEE SHEET 198 FOR PROPOSED SIGNAGE DESIGN STYLES, 
MATERIALS AND DIMENSIONS 
e 
~ 
B :ill· 60 1Zll 180 
• SCALE: 1~=60' 
-~ 
ct: 
<( 
0.. 
u 
0.. 
~ 
>- ....J 
...J ~ 
0 !:: g 
~ 
:r: co g 
~ 
::) ::, 
Cl) 0 
<( " !:: 
::> ~ 
:; :; 
::, 
<I) 
UTAH A~~J~~TNDATION 
PAAK~MOIIII 
• 
0CTO!fER21J1J 
SHEETllllr: 
LIGHTING AND 
SIGNAGE PLAN 
r--· I\ ,~\ 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
73
EXH~B~T G 
Comprehensive 
Sign Plan 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 47 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
74
EXHIBIT G Comprehensive Sign Plan 
COMPREHENSIVE SIGN PLAN FOR THE 
UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPECIALLY PLANNED AREA 
3419 OLYMPIC PARKWAY, PARK CITY, SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH 
December 5, 2012 
The below statements correlate with the Utah Olympic Park Resort Center SPA Submittal, Exhibit B: 
Final Site Plans on sheet 19 showing conceptual locations. 
A Comprehensive Sign Plan for Utah Olympic Park is permitted under the Snyderville Basin 
Development Code Section 10-8-2: Sign Regulations. Within the previously approved Utah Olympic 
Park Comprehensive Sign Plan dated October 24, 2007, Utah Olympic Park and Summit County agreed 
to memorialize certain pre-existing 2002 OlympjcSignage. Certain approvals shall continue for existing 
Utah Olympic Park signage within the current Development Agreement. 
GENERAL 
Within Utah Olympic Park, businesses and activity areas should be identified by an appropriate blend of 
permitted sign types including an Olympic Park Monument Sign, business area entry signs, freestanding 
signs, far;:ade mounted signs, projecting signs, suspended or supported signs, banners, directional signs, 
and window signs. Materials for all signs shall be compatible with the. sur,rounding architectures and 
mountain environment. Materials and color schemes of all exposed surfaces of signs shall complement 
the building located on the premises. • • 
Signs will generally conform to the character and sizes represented in the: attached illustrat,iohs. Signs 
shall be placed so as not to detract from the architectural elements an~ shall be located so as not to cause 
interruption to other architectural elements of buildings. Wood, metals, and materials simi'lar in 
appearance to existing facility architecture, signage, and the surrounding natural environment are the • 
materials of preference. • • 
HISTORICAL 2002 OLYMPIC WINTER GAMES SIGNAGE 
Olympic Towers 
Two Olympic towers exist, one at the roundabout entry to Olympic Parkway and one in front of the 
Olympic Plaza. They serve as permanent reminders of Utah's 2002 Olympic Winter Games and 
ongoing Olympic Legacy. Periodic maintenance on these towers includes rewrapping oftfie Olympic 
winter sport graphics and painting of the metal structures. Upkeep and maintenance of these towers is 
the sole responsibility of the Utah Athletic Foundation under license agreement with the United States 
Olympic Committee. The towers may be lit so long as they comply with County down lighting 
regulations. 
Existing Scoreboards 
The electronic scoreboards installed for the 2002 Olympics (20'x 60' in size) are permitted as shown 
in the attached visual. Any change in size or location is subject to Low Impact Permit review. 
Existing Flags 
The national flags located at the top and base of the jumping hills and sunounding the sliding track 
are permitted. • 
"Look of the Games" 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 48 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
75
EXHIBIT G Comprehensive Sign Plan (continued) 
Numerous buildings and sport support areas have graphics and Olympic marks that are historical and 
appropriate in their continued visibility. Examples include logo etchings on facility windows, large 
banners with winter athlete pictures, and numerous renditions of Olympic rings displays. These are 
permitted for continued visual display. 
UTAH OLYMPIC PARK MONUMENT ENTRY SIGN 
One project entry monument sign for the development is aHowed to represent Utah Olympic Park on a 
permanent basis. The entry sign may be designed to accommodate non-electronic changeable copy 
displays and/or banners affixed to the structure or other similar means promoting civic or special events. 
The size of the individual letters of the civic or special event shall be proportional to the size of the 
structure and will be as approved through a Low Impact Permit. 
Sign Location and Size 
The sign shall be located similar to previously approved in the October 24, 2007 Utah Olympic Park 
Comprehensive Sign Plan at the southwest corner of SR-224 and Olympic Parkway in the Summit 
County right~of-way. All parts of the sign and any landscaping above grade shall be located at least 
ten feet from the back of the curb. The display area of the sign shall not exceed forty-five (45) square 
feet. 
Sign Type and Material 
The monument sign shall be constructed with a monument base of stone, wood, concrete or a 
combination of the three. The display area (sign board) shall be made ofreal metal (non-reflective), 
wood, wood composite material, stone, or similar. Sign copy may be applied, painted, engraved, 
wood, or solid letters applied directly on the signboard. Colors may include Utah Olympic Park 
colors or colors which are neutral and compatible with the surrounding architectufes and mountain 
environment. 
Sign Copy 
The sign will include the permanent copy of "Utah Olympic Park" and may include the Utah Olympic 
Park logo. The copy "USA", the Olympic Rings, and the copy "U.S. Olympic Training Site" may be 
also included iri the f~cility identification. Cha_ngeable copy is intended to promote civic or special 
events. 
BUSINESS AREA ENTRY SIGNS 
Multiple business area entry signs for the development are allowed to represent business partner locations 
on a permanent basis. The project entry sign may include individual tenant names and loc~tions. The 
si2:e of the individual letters of the proje,ct name and individual t~nants shall be propqrtioria1· t? the size of 
the strncture. . • • • • • 
Sign Location and Size . . 
Signs shall be located at the entry location of the various building clusters as conceptually identified 
in sheet 19 of the Resort Center SP A Submittal Site Plans. The display area of the sign shall not 
exceed thirty (30) square feet. 
Sign Type and Material . . 
Signs shall be constructeq with a base of stone, wood, concrete or a combination of the three. • The 
display area (sign board)" shall be made of metal (non-reflective), wood, .wood composite materi~l, or 
Coroplast. The.copy may be applied, painted, engraved, wood, o~ solid letters applied directly on the 
signboard. Colofs may include the Utah Olympic Park colors or colors which are neutral and 
compatible with the surrounding architectures and mountain environment. 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 49 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
76
EXHIBIT G Comprehensive Sign Plan ( continued) 
Sign Copy 
The sign may include company or brand names. Discounts on activities shall not be advertised. 
FREESTANDING SIGNS 
Existing signs, as shown in attached illustrations, are permitted. New signs or ch~nges to existiqg signs 
are subject to Low Impact Permit review. Signs may be wood, metal, or a material that complements the 
building. The copy may be applied, painted, eBgraved, wood, or solid letters applied directly on the 
signboard. Colors rnay include the Utah,Olympic Park color,s or colors which ate neutral and ·compatible 
with the smrounding architectures and mountain enviromnent ·Sign copy shall identify a building or area, 
be directional in nature, or inter,pretive relative to the natural enviromnent, Utah's 2002 Olympic W•inter 
Games, or the ongoing Olympic Legacy. The copy shall not include advertisements, brand names or 
logos, excluding the Utah Olympic Park n.ame and logo. 
FACADE MOUNTEB ·SIGNS 
E_xisting signs, a~ shown fr:1attached illustrations, are permitted. New signs· or changes to existing signs 
are subject to Low Impact Permit review. Signs may be wood, metal, or a materialthat complements the 
buildin.g. The copy may be applied, painted, engraved, wood, or solid letters applied directly on the 
signboard. Colors may include the Utah Olympic Park colors or colors which are neutral and compatible 
with the surrounding architectures and mountain environment. Sign copy shall identify, the ~uildi~g or be 
directional in nature. The copy shall not include advertisements, brand names or logos, exc~U:ding the 
Utah Olympic Park name and logo. 
PROJECTING SIGNS 
The bottom of projecting signs shall be a sufficient height above ground to prevent damage or hazardous 
conditions. Signs shall be proportionate in scale to their respective buildings and are subject to Low 
Impact Permit review and approval. 
SUSPENDED OR SUPPORTED SIGNS 
The bottom of suspended or supported signs shall be located sufficiently and at a height sufficient to 
prevent damage or hazardous conditions. Signs shall be proportionate in scale to their respective 
buildings and are subject to Low Impact Permit review and approval. 
BANNERS & FLAGS 
Parking Lot Banners 
B~ners may be instaHed within parking lots. The bottom of the banners shall be a sufficient 'height 
above the parki0g lot or sidewalk to prevent damage or hazardous conditions. The size of the banner 
shall be proportional with the light pole on which it is placed. These banners will be made of nylon 
or other strong weather resistant fabric material. Each banner may contain artistic expressions and 
colors. Banners may display the Utah Olympic Park name and logo and/or advertise certain events. 
Pedestrian Area Banners 
Banners may be installed on decorative and/or light poles and building facades throughout Utah 
Olympic Park. The purpose of these banBers is to animate and identify key pedestrian environments. 
The bottom of the banners shall be a sufficient height above ground to prevent damage or hazardous 
conditions. The size of the banner shall be proportional with the pole oh which it is placed. Each 
banner may contain artistic expressions and colors. Banners may contain the Utah Olympic Park 
name and logo, the name and/or logo of certain tenants within Utah Olympic Park, and niay advertise 
certain events. 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 50 
( 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
77
EXHIBIT G Comprehensive Sign Plan (continued) 
DIRECTIONAL SIGNS 
Pedestrian & Vehicular Directional Signs 
Additional pedestrian and vehicular directional signs may be installed with the purpose of increasing 
safety, easing vehicular traffic, identifying pedestrian traffic areas, and differentiating between 
vehicular and pedestrian areas. 
Existing Directional Signs 
The directional sign on Olympic Parkway was installed by the Utah Department of Transportation 
prior to the 2002 Olympics and is permitted. Other directional signs, examples of which can be seen 
in Exhibit D, are necessary to direct patrons around the site and are permitted. 
WINDOW SIGNS 
Signs may be stenciled or etched on windows or doors and may contain the Utah Olympic Park name and 
logo, the name and/or logo of certain tenants within Utah Olympic Park, or hours of operation. 
SIGN ILLUMINATION 
Sign lighting shall comply with lighting standards established in the Snyderville Basin Development 
Code. Lighting for all signs, if illuminated and with the exception of the scoreboard, shall be from 
external illumination sources. However, back lighting is permitted so long as the light source is screened 
from view. All external illumination sources shall be shielded from public view. Light shall be 
concentrated on the sign face. The amount of light cast to areas other than the sign shall be reduced to the 
extent possible. 
Exposed neon tubing and/or individual light bulbs forming the sign copy shall not be permitted without 
approval of O.A. Exposed neon signs shall be permitted inside a business.if set bock ten ( 10) feet 
minimum from the storefront window (with permission). 
PROHIBITED SIGNS 
Unless otherwise addressed in this Comprehensive Sign Plan, those signs identified in Section 10-8-2(F) 
of the Snyderville Basin Development Code are prohibited unless approved by separate permit. 
PERMITS REQUIRED 
Except as provided herein, no sign shall be erected without securing any permits required under 
Snyderville Basin Development Code Section 10-8-2: Sign Regulations and ariy other permits specifically 
required hereunder. 
MINIMUM STANDARD 
These guidelines constitute a minimum standard for signs. The developer intends to operate above the 
minimum standard in terms of quality and expression. 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 51 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
78
EXHIBIT G Comprehensive Sign Plan (continued) 
Types of Signs 
Entrance Sign (changeable copy displays) 
Freestanding/Monument 
Primary Wall Sign 
Secondary Wall Sign 
Projecting Sign 
Suspended Sign 
Awning Sign 
Banners on Light Poles 
Temporary Signs 
Open House Off-Premise Signs 
Non-Commercial Opinion Signs 
Property Subject to Development or Construction 
Property Subject to Sale, Lease, Rent, or Auction 
Flags 
Window Signs 
Neon Signs 
Additional Sport Signoge 
Various Utah Olympic Park Banners 
Aerials Pool Jump Signs 
Numb·er 
2 
1 per building, area, activity, 
vehicular access, or directional 
area 
1 per building 
1 per building 
1 per building 
1 per building 
1 per building 
No more than 50% of signs 
per code 
N/A 
N/A 
per code 
N/A 
Existing Exemption 
N/A 
N/A 
,, 
Size' 
45 square feet (no advertising) 
30 square feet 
1:2 up to 60 square feet or up to 
75 sq ft if building fa~ade is 250' 
min length 
1/2 the size of primary wall sign 
6 square feet 
Not specified 
N/A 
15 square feet 
20 square feet 
N/A ' 
N/A 
20 square feet 
N/A 
Existing Exemption 
25% of the Window Area, 
N/A 
60 square feet maximum 
100 square feet 
Code ' location 
No Entrance to the UOP 
Yes Entry Location to the Buildings (see location map) 
Yes Building Facades 
Yes None proposed 
Yes Pending new development 
Yes Pending new development 
Yes Pending new development 
No Pending new development 
Yes Pending new development 
Yes Pending new development 
Yes Pending new development 
Yes Pending new development 
Yes Pending new development 
Yes Pending new· development 
Yes Pending new development 
Yes Pending new development 
Utah Olympic Park fully intends to make every effort to meet the intent of all sign regulations. Sign design will ensure that materials arid color schemes are compatible with Snyderville Basin's 
mountain environment with all materials and color schemes of exposed sign surfaces complementing the building located on the premises. Size and height will be determined by respective 
locations and purpose due to the scale of the various environments and particular snow loads, but generally with a maximum of height of 1 O' where not already exempted. 
/~OCTOBER 2013 ,....-."'. UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHl13IJ'$✓ 52 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
79
i j, 
'-.___), ' \, ; ,_ 
EXHIBIT G Comprehensive Sign Plan (continued) 
·;t1f::M 
bt~~•~~-~~s~~~~i;,~:lrit.-:~ 
OLYMPIC TOWER VEHICULAR DIRECTIONAL SIGN 
.,· 
ill
.~o::.c;_ 
,;Id.:~. ~?,~.:=- I •I ! I ' ~ J ~ ::\. ... --
~Ii" H, ~ 
';.IH' 
__ 1:f:Ln1 __ 
MONUMENT/TENANT SIGN 
~ I 1-
•.t, ·•~. i 
i ' ' 
-1ir· l ., 1 . ' 
f ( 
11•• I i - ----.- " • .,_., ___ ....... 1 
~~~'k'VJS~{~~,,;.J;;'iii;.t,;~;#')£:f~~~.•·; \.~ ,1ci,~:;~~·;1,;;.:,;,,~w~ ;,. )~i;:·:;;:✓r,~~\~r=:~tJ'.' .. ·. :;:~~'~"'" :i~~::~~ _': ; 
PEDESTRIAN DIRECTIONAL SIGNAGE 
11·.. . 
n
i· II,,., -~·I ·1>1/1 ::17
1·- - -. 1 : .' '. , • • • : ~ ' I J 
' ~ ' . : . • . ·, • 
·- ~~ -·- _: .. ;.,..,_,:t,• 
i OLYMPIC PARK TRAIUPATH SIGNAGE 
L ____________ , ~ 
T 
I :d -,~ I 
·,1 
-.:, 
! 
J.•:u:,:_:--v ·1: llr.!A'.u.(: __ ! 
LIGHT POLE BANNERS 
DCluru~ow fl..\':tirn:; 
O!Gi1ALH rnmrn 0~ 
131J!.MATTEntxvI1./Y1. 
\';lTlllJ.lf[fi'l'~UIACf'.OUTLA"'fR, 
CO~ffio\CTOl!WPRt)'.,1[>E 
l!AIJClfH';[;RA1;mS+HaF.OWAflE 
:t'rOIIF'(H)'t1TOP(IMLY. 
tllCkfL fAf·En' (;l'JOMIW'.1 AT 
e,)liOM.::01iUEnt/UJ;[Siroti.: 
::~Zt'.:TOP,~V[RiFfEDOll-mI 
,._) 
~ 
0:: 
<( 
CL 
u 
CL 
~ 
>- _J 
_J ~ Q_ 
I~ <(:::, 
I-~ 
:::> fu 
:i: 
g 
g 
:, 
8 
I-
~ 
" 
::, 
"' 
UTAH A~~=NDATION 
PNUCCITY,UTNl~Olle 
4M-85a-4200 ' 
• 
SllE:EThll(: 
SIGNAGE 
DETAILS 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
80
\ ___ ., 
UTAH OLYMPIC PARK MONUMENT ENTRY SIGN 
I 
'-~ 
___ j 
PRELIMINARY RENDERING & LOCATION 
(CONCEPTUAL ONLY AS PREVIOUSLY APPROVED OCTOBER 24, 2007) 
0 
PLANT LIST 
F'ROF05ED HC!U1ENT SIG< 
6EE 51-!EET Al.I 
OLYMPIC PARK DR. 
60' 5A'IDSTO-lE 80.JLDER ~VED 
U!TH LETTERS A'ID LOGO 001Fl:rn.:; 
U!THU.&DCBRAND~­
REGI.ILATICNS. 
Ji 
~ 
~ 
• 
DFlQl.l:;~T TOLERtNT LANDSCAPn-i:. 
unTH All!ctlATIC IJ;l<IGATICN S'r5TS1 
SA'ID5rp-E LANDSCAFE 
~-
,, u,::._ __ :~--d.~~"!'~~~if/,t;;;._~.t~'"t:=-;::=,:c=o,."'~"":;,;"'-;;,_
41
J/i.,-=~!il .. t-..l,_ ~~\T 
5A'D5TC!-lf LANDSCAPE •. .,'.;/. M!)'-0' 
60.JLDERS.12' TO ~2• ·-;,-;c,,.,-►1..r.,;:;' - ·,•.:~.~r •• ~.;..;;~~-·· 
....-. 
"O 
Q) 
::J 
C 
:i:i 
C 
0 u ......, 
C 
ro 
a 
C 
en 
C1) 
Q) 
> 
VI 
C 
Q) 
.s::::: 
Q) 
!,., 
0. 
E 
0 
u 
l? 
1-..... co ..... 
I 
X 
llJ 
LANDSCAPE FLAN 
I a I 
~ 
[ 
M i! 
~ 
·• 
I 
i ' 
~lOOT = Cf WA'!' 
1/8' • l'-0' 
KN Arclo6t,ptylo,uv,,11,1 
LC Cotorca!teir dmncll 'Lo.ula!l' 
HR Hal",OMrl!if'S\& Creeping Color,do !-lolly 
Ef u.!l!Jl.!rdfa!rl&t.!t.a 61,rl:Bl Flower 
BC Cieranhn sargulreun Blooclj 0-Bne,blll 
I<!; ,lq.illeg• ciorulo8 RDd<y Houl\8 In ColLJnOh'B 
BS f<IJdbed<JB lulgld8 'Gol,tuin' BIBcl<fy,d&J&an 
}l½~llt\~i ~~~ HIX.~ITE 
ca110lNA/1E 
M:EP RE5cUE 
TAU.UllEATGRASe 
Ha.NTAN~ 
~Ml<l<!' 
U/rctln-t", Blu 5AGE!lFaJ5H 
l!\LBS.ffi<ACl<E 
-s;:J­
"' "' ),--
~ 
=t 
::$-xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 
LOT' 
F'ROY ·31616 
t6EL -31155 
Bf.l'1A-318!l-4 
FRVI -23252 
ARmll-31067 
~ EilLK 
LBS. 
◄ too 
2030 
2030 
l.10 
IS.W 
"'" ,_,, 
~ 
CD 
I 
X 
LU 
LL. 
0 
:,,'. 
0 
0 
CD 
0 
LU 
~ 
0 
Cl.. 
::, 
z 
:s 
Cl.. 
<( 
Cl.. 
Vl 
:,,'. 
er: 
<( 
Cl.. 
u a: 
2: 
:'.:; 
0 
I 
;:: 
::, 
M ,.., 
0 
N 
er: 
LU 
CD 
~ 
0 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
81
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
82
.EXHIBIT G Comprehensive Sign Plan (continued) 
-- "i .,_ -'\:il'.f~;77~7)~r~---
\ ) LI --~,:,1-u-; 1-:-0,:'r'·::°c 
fflt1:-"J ... 
• ··-· t • 
"''"'1l•:·'.·n\1~i'r 1• 
~~mm 
-~tt~]fill~lJ 1 :.:. :--== - i1~~;~~~~}-~~~:\::\\\rf~;:~~~~~= ._ 
-. ~~'"'"'""··, ·, ··:··.- '.j::_11i)\~,\\~.•\\\l'/,\~-\\1\~\<'_';'7-i ', 
11111117,,IH.lilllln''i = i.:J.<_l~:.,,i·/\\\\\l\\\~i\\:.c:=:~.:::;::....=-~--1 .- ._ .. ttttttti -t1ttftrrm -. • __ ._ --•- _ .1, I·\,:.\\·.'{\\\/,\, , \\, \~\\\ \\ \ ;_-=:=-:::·_. • -·~-::.--\ ~ 
:)}\~\\~:\\,\{\:~ \~\.\\\\ ;\\:~;i~~ii~~v'\\ \I 
JHl "-" I'" I 'HI • .. •... > •• , ... ,·,"._-_,·.·,·.-\•\\\\•~•J\ \\'\\ \\\\\~-~~~~1·=-------.._ .. ' \ • ''" \II 
-..::.. __ • -~.... ••·---._:· .::·.~·-:\~:-:,·-.'\•··.··'\\\\\\\\\\ ,.\\\ \\\11 ·•.._\·.\\\\\\l • [±!-Y ~ ,•~• ,-:.----•0 ~c·c~-- "'"'"u~"'=\'\\I\ \\\\11\~\~~\\f~ • ,\•.\,\\.'I 
\ : - ·, • ·~~~~-~t::~f:::%~t0i\1itl, · . '\: 
,r;.v • -. ~~;~~}:-~-~ \ 
. \ •~•./',;;:, • .___,__Ot'<tl.'"Of'....,,.1-11.AHC! 
0 MONUMENT/TENANT SIGN • 
~UILDIHG_IOENTIFlCATION,, 
0 VEHICULAR DIRECTIONAL SIGN 
INFORMAnotWIRECTlOIW.GUID-'NCE 
e PARKING AREA LIGHTING 
16' UGKT BTN«JARD • TO MATCH EXISTING 
HIGHPRESSURJ_=-S0DlUMLAM_P•~4DOWATTS 
0 WALKWAY AREA LIGHTING 
16' LJGHTSTANDARO· TO MATCH EXlSTlNO 
HIGHPAESSURE.SOOIUW IAW'- MAX 100 WATTS 
• WALK.WA'( BOL½RD LIGHTING 
~-•1_1:}:,i':\\'~~4:.;,/:~:~;j:~_-_, ~~-A~$~;!/i::)) ,;:, El;!i=~:· ~b~~"="""'°""""'°"='...,,°''"'~ 
[.'.,'_;/1;'1) .',1\11 1 1"t'l1\·\\111.\',:-:\".·: ~ •:::t,~1; 11 1/,,,:111 1/ _2.AI.LtlGHTlNGWlttBEDESIGNEoeYANELECTRlCALENGINEERATlWEOFFl~Slt. E 
( /1// I// ,\,11 1;1 \ !\ • 1 1 \\ 1'1_\\'·:_-\:;,,.. 1/'ff./t<{l;,,1 11 /1 ti Pl..MISIJBMl':"ALSFOREACH~ECTIVEPHAS~OFCONS'l'RU_CTION • 
; 1 I I,,':,'/ ."I:;' I Ii!,\\\\\-·\\\\~•• . , rij\11 1\1 1 11 11 ,1 3. BUltOINGUOKTINOWILLBl:.PROVIDEDATTHETIMEOFINOMOUAI.BUllDINOPLNI 
-' ADOl110NAL LANDSCAPE LIGHT1NO WU. BE PROVIDED W!TttlN PUBLIC SPACES ANO AT 
MONUMENT N4> OIRECTIONAL SIGNS AS PER THE OEVEl.OPMENT AGREEMENT 
~- All SIGN,t,.GE ANO UOKTINO LOCATIONS SHOWN ARE SUBJECT TO MOOIFICATIONS 
BASEDONACTUAl.SITECONDmONSAND SIONAGE REQUIREMENTS. 
SEE SHEET 198 FDR PROPOSED SIGNAGE·DESIGN SlYLES, 
MATERIALS AND DIMENSIONS • 
e ~ •., 'o .30• 60 1ZD 180 
SCALE: 1•.,,50• 
I [:~;iiiilitl~lt.,.,,;,c,0.us,-,11.'.1:.ce.,.,c_cl.Ch.S~-"-jl~~'.i~i - ·-----1 
~ 
0:::: 
0: 
0 
a.. 
~ 
~ __J 
....J ~ 0-
I~ <t: -~ 
I-,- <( 
::::> ~ 
~ .::, 
g 
::, 
8 
!:: .:,; .::, 
ill 
l1TAH:1~=TION -
Q 
0CTOB£R2013 
ORAYiNBY: 
SPAsl.iBMITTAL 
SHEETllllE: 
• LIGHTING AND 
SIGNAGE PLAN 
19 
iii-AH01.1'MPIC,A1115"Al'lANU'°"no1001tOFEJ1D1nl~ 
( 
,,----.,.; 
( \ 
-~ ) 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
83
EXH~B~T H 
Comniurli-t;y B~n~:fit-? 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 57 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
84
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
85
EXHIB~T i 
Futu,re·- O·lympic 
Transportation & Security 
Staging Areas 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLY!v1PIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 101 • 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
86
--~-.:;. 
OCTOBER 2D13 
r--
~·. ;;::,·-~=:1?·~--:,,:;_. __ j . 
f 
-
3.1 ._-·:.,:_,, 
SPECTATOR SHUTTLE. 
• • • : :LOAD°rUNLOAD 
. -~-· •• 
\ L 
'·-:.-"-'-
\\1i:~;. :,,. 
.i'.-:.•··S,::::fNTERNALSHUTTLE 
···~' 
-::! 
Ii 
:1·. 
''. ;··,.·:: .::-,:c:::::=,.:~\.· 
• OPERATlQNS:bE'SfGN SET 
NOT i6A'.c0Nsf:Ri0cr10N 
. '•-~ .· =---~--~:~-7:- : . i . . . . =-.. -~- ~-- .. -
F.UTHR[.--OLYM P.>IC-TRANSE{©RI'ATION 
·-~~..;,.. -~--------.. _ ;'. ''. ---~-.:::t;-:··_::c·.:·~):~:.".'.~-.\'t~{t~:~-;:;---:·~:., -·:· .,_ 
& SECURITYSFAGINH'AR'EAS 
-- ..... ~,: ... 
.. ~\ __. 
As Propos-~d by the oi:lBiy~pi~"-i:eg;c~ :F~undati~n 
May 2012 
~ ¥ 
SALT LAKE 2002 
Q%) 
w 
w "' ~ 8 
~ ~ 
5 ~ ~-g w .-~= 
Z ~ J~ N 
1111H 
~ ~ !~ gJ 
~ a: mv: ..J ::. N 
~ :'.:j 
;;; 0 
l-1$COC'.l,ll"IIISHHCHR"'•C~ 
~ ... I LA~r ~c.1,~lll<G: CO'",::: r:A 
:,: .• - '<:1,--··: .. 
• 7,ow,~,e :::J \fl'\'~• o,o, oFF 
' .f ..... :.:::i~i~;~~. !:":'•:+~~;~., ·.c 
,-•✓:-
fil5i~7l~~j;~,~i;i. 
i0CCPT~Ki-l 2CVI 
5~.- l,l,!<.\'. C~GA\IZI\', COM\ll"llt 
<( 
LlJ 
a: 
<( 
'O 
Q) 
:6 
E 
0 
• -1 · ·sPECT ATOR'SECl:JRIJY.-:• • , • i•"f- • " J.. >; '. , . • . .-
• • • • ..... V / J ,, ., • .. - - • • VEl.liCLE SECURFiY . ·_.,:.:_ -~-- ~>-;SCREE NIN~ ..... ~.--~::' • ..: i---rxt:·:'( h;._;-\t:f•~-~ :~ ... / '-. -~--~•1 1 ' _.·/" ·f. 
:e·, -TEAM -~~~:: :~fli$1 ti.,.·i/,''%•;•'/ ,~,·;:;, ;SCRE~~IN,G- <! 
~•:j 'VEHICLE ~~~r .. J/.. •e;.;\,:eie1!1tte,!J~•;·,: • • •;~~e,.tLtt,;eae, -: ::
0
1. 
cjj' ST~GING ' • .. @q• • ~~~e'~~2~~~j~~i:1~!!• , 
•• ••••••• e,.i I J\rt' . -~-,~·t'·,,_,;;,1t,',-._;;;\~11,1~1~· :-, ••• e,.l I 1' · ' '? '-'·., ' ,.,,,, '"1 - - - --• ' ~' f ,..- , ,"' 1• -• l ~ J ~I"' ! ~ 
·• ... ..-<-,-.cc-• t,;;}•(;:.·.' , , • •hr·, - , 
~.:::I ·~_:·· ·.f":~~,~<::-~~~-~. ,~ ...,. •• 
·-·· 11,(-''.,:-~~.,. ••• ,) ·•n -- ·•in·'''\•· -·· 1 I f , ... ' . .l ·:~ ... ,· ,,, ,,.,. :!"J ~- l ,, i > '·'ll. 
··• ., • SPONSOR•-BUS •• '' , .. '·,:- '-'-t-;;· -rt,,.<: ~1 • • _- it! ·1 · ' ·,'·I 
,--.e-1 --·- ... LOAD,&, '···•r~:=·,SP-EC'fP.!:TqR,,LpAD& •• • .·~• .. , 
)' 
<Lb • [ I] 
NEW 
TRANSIT 
zCL O 
:5~::,::: -~ 
a..=> a: 1' ---:, <( 0 
'z- 0.. z UJ~ () • .c 
~El) a:: g,~ 
UJ :i: ·- :::i 
CJ~>-~;. 
<{ LlJ _J ::, ::= 
z0 o..., o 
<x::=,:c:.i:-"" ~ _J <( CJ) cil 
UJ-1- ·O.. 
:::iI :::i Q) 
z~ t- g, UJ- <( _J 
>L.LJ • 
_J .c 
Cf) Ol 
co '<ii 
o B C0 0 co 
:.:e I "'· . -sTAGING ,.- .. - ·~·?ii!~''., • -J~:-·· y.,:,~ . . • ::"'I 
_ ... _ ___ .. _ . • UN~o ... 0 Z0NE· ;_-r-.. • . . • 1 • ,.:,..,,,.__,_ ·i, UNLOAD.,_ . ' ;.;: lf-' ·. j 
• ••. :_ ,1:-·~.····,~· ... ·Y" ZONES' -:•,.r:"tf;/ ';"!c'y:'', •1 CENTER I I RlV'SIO,S: 
' ' 1 ~• . , • • ,z, • / i-:,.J.•~~/, , • ' l'"UII: SET NC. 1D 
e ~- , ...... ,1._ 1~.,.. _ , .. _,~.: .. ,-ti• - ; •- .:...J • 
.:'.~I ··•~ [-,-:-:./. 0 ,·, , 25i~i11-~·-'·.' ,--~:~· ::·f;.-- ... •.:...-:.: ... - . SPECTATOR 
OCTO!IEF. 31, 2001 
·--- -~ :, • - •• ..• • ..... ' -~ _ - • ~~/,ll(WAY-··¥:· -l1:.:...1.s \ J"""-·~•:iJ ·--··-· - -1., . _ .. ,.,._ AREA PLAN 
-~::-_c:;;:~--:-~-·-· ••••• ~ •• ·---~~'!:~:::!'!~~!-~!t~~=~-~~T~~~:~:::-=:~:, 1-·I -~~ .. : . -~:ute 2~~ .:: ' ... · ..... :··· (& '"'" ND 
I I LiTAHOLYMPIC PARK.SPA PJ:AN UP.!)ATED B,OOK OF EXHIBITS I10_2 _____ -
NOTE: THIS VENUE DRAWING 1S PRELIMINARY AND IS SUBJECT TO ADDITIONAL ~--.tr r
4
:i·[siul j , .. _§§] 
REVISIONS AND.UPDATES THROUGH THE GAMES PERIOD. ISSUE DATE: OCT. 31, 2001 t;R/A-1.".: ~~.:.£ .; 15-J .Jt-!! l<.,O 
/\ /~ 
' __ .,.,... 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
87
:E.~qha-rigS. ·Agreem-,E!n·t 
• . • . ~ • • . . ·" t . . ' . , . . 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 103 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
88
EXHIBIT J Exchange Agreement 
EXCHANGE AGREEMENT 
This Exchange Agreement ("Agreement") is made as of this __ day of _____ , 2013 
(the "Effective Date") by and between Summit County, a political subdivision of the State of 
Utah (the "County"), Snyderville Basin Special Recreation District, a local district of the 
State of Utah (the "District") and Utah Athletic Foundation, a Utah non-profit corporation 
(the "UAF") (individually referred to herein as a "Party" and jointly referred to herein as the 
"Parties"). The County and the District are collectively referred to herein as the "County 
Parties". 
WITNESSETH 
The County Parties are the fee title owners of a certain parcel of. real property identified 
as all of Lot 3 of the Kimball Junction Sllbdivision, First Amended, according to the official plat 
thereof recorded on November 4, 2010, as Entry Number 009097 55 in the Office of the Summit 
County Recorder, Book 2054 beginning at Page 0429 (the "!(JS Lot 3"). KJS L0t 3 is currently 
encumbered by that certain Declaration and Notice of Use Restri~ti0ns, dated November 20, 
2008, and recorded as Entry Number 00910221 in the 0ffice of the County Reco~der, Summit 
County, Utah, in Book 2055 beginning at Page 0792 (the "Covenant"); 
UAF is the fee tide owner of a certain parcel of r,eal proper,ty ide11tified' as all of Lot 5 of 
the Kimball Junction Subdivision, First Amended(~~ "l(JS Lot fn; • • • • 
. . . . 
UAF is seeking approval of a Development Agreement with .thy County to develop 
approximately seventy-one (71) acres within the Utah Winter Sports Park. ~JS Lot 5 is located 
within a visual corridor which the County desires to protect from development. In order to 
minimize the visibility of the UAF development, UAF and ·the Cou11ty have agr,eed to effectuate 
an exchange of properties in order to relocate development outside of the visuafcorridor; 
To accomplish the purposes of an exchange, U AF is wi:lling to deed to the County 
Parties a portion of KJS Lot 5, as more fully set forth in Exhibit A hereto (the "KJS Open 
Space"), together with 11.31 acres of land within the Utah Winter Sports Park that is adjacenfto 
KJS Lot 2, as more fully set forth in Exhibit B hereto (the "UOP Open Space") (together, the 
"County Open Space"), and the County Parties are willing to deed to UAF 5.22 acres ofland in 
KJS Lots 3and 5 which are adjacent to the Utah Winter Sports Park, as more fully set forth in 
Exhibit C h.ereto (the "UAF: Exparisi'on Parcel"). Prior to the qdsing, .the Cciunty Parties will 
secure a release or" the Covenant and any other development or use restrictions on the UAF 
Expansion Parcel; 
The County has determined that the UAF Expansion Parcel is Real Property Not in 
Public Use under Summit County Code § 1-11-4. The Parties have commissioned an 
independent appraisal of the various properties and have found that the fair market value of the 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 104 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
89
EXHIBIT J Exchange Agreement 
' .) County Open Space exceeds that of the UAF Expansion Parcel by approximately $35,000, which 
the County will provide as a credit against development fees to UAF. 
'•) 
NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the adequacy and receipt of 
which is hereby acknowledged, the paFties agree as follows: 
1. Property Exchange. 
( a) At the Closing, by Special ,warranty Deed, the County Parties shall convey to the 
UAF the UAF Expansion Parcel; and, 
(b) At the Closing, by Special Warranty Deeds, the UAF shall convey to the County an 
l!mdiv-ided 37% interest in. the ,County Open Space and to the District an undivided 
63% .interest in the County Open Space. 
2. Environmental Condition of Properties. Except for herbicides, -pesticides and other 
materials traditionally used in fanning in the area where the County Open Space and 
UAF Expansi0n Parcel are located, the Parties have no ActMal Knowledge of the presence 
or existence.0f any Hazardous Materials (as defined helow) or petroleum Mnderground 
storage tanks on the properties. From the Effective Date -through Cl0sing, the Parties 
shall not cause or pennit the presence, use, generation, release, discharge, storage, 
disposal, or transportation. of any Hazardous 1Materials on, under, to or from the 
. properties, except for herbicides, pesticides and other materials traditionaHy used in 
farming in the ·area where the pr0perties are located. • As used in this Agreement, the term 
"Hazardous Materials" shall mean any hazardoMs or toxic waste, substance or material 
as presently defined by the CompreheBsive Environmental Response, Compensation and 
Liability Act, 42 U.S.C.•A. Section .9601, et seq.; the Hazardous Materials Transportation 
Act, 49 U.S.C.A. Section 5101, .et seq.; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 
U.S.C.A. Section 6901, et seq.; the Toxic SubstaBces Control Act, 15 U.S.C.A. Section 
2601, et seq.; the Federal.Water,PoHutim:1 Control Act,-33 U.S-.C.A. Section 1251, et seq.; 
and any State environmental laws. 
3. Closing; Closing Date. The Closing shall occur (the "Closing Date"). on or before 
_____ , 2013. At the Closing, the parties shall do the following: (a) the County 
Parties shall execute and deliver to the UAF a special warranty deed .conveying good and 
marketable title to all of the County Parties' interests in the UAF Expansion Parcel, as 
more particMlarly set forth in Exhibit "D"; (b) the UAF shall execute m:1d deliver a 
special warranty deed conveying good and marketable title to the District of an undivided 
63% interest in the KJS Open Space and to the County of an 'tmdivided 37% interest in 
the KJS Open Space, as more particularly set forth in Exhibit "E"; ( c) the UAF shall 
execute and deliver a special warranty deed conveying good and marketable title to the 
District of an undivided 63% interest in the UOP Open Space and to the County of an 
undivided 37% interest in the UOP Open ~pace, as more particularly set forth in Exhibit 
"F"; and ( d) the Parties shall take. all other steps needed to. effectuate the, transactions • 
contemplated by this Agreement. All escrow, closing and othef'recording fees shall be 
divided one-half (½) each between UAF and the County Parties. Each party shall be 
OCTOBER'2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 105 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
90
EXHIBIT J Exchange Agreement 
responsiple· fot. paymen:t of •the fees and expenses of its counsel; if any, relating to the 
exchange. 
· 4. • Representations and Warranties. ·Each par-ty makes the following representations and 
warranties to the other, each of which shall survive closing: • 
a. Neither this Agreement nor the transaction contemplatedtby-thi_s.Agreement 
violates any agreement, judgment, regulation, rule, decree or . ord~r by which the 
represen.ting par,ty is. bourid, and no consent, appr0val of permission from any third party 
( which has not already been obtained) is J!equired in order for the represen.ting party to enter 
into this Agreement or to consummate the transaction contemplated by this Agreement. 
b.: • 1 To the besto:f each.p_ar,ty's actual lffiowledge, the UAF Parcel (in the case of 
County Parties) an.d the KJS Open Space·•and U0P~Open. Space Ein-the case 0fUAF) is free 
of any mortgages, liens, leases, easemen.ts, covenants, restrictioas, agreements or other 
encumbrances. • • 
c'.- Each party accepts the proper,ty which it receives hereunder ''as is," and 
except as·expressly ·set foFth herein, without any warranties of title, condition or fitness for 
ariy pm,pose whatsoever. • 
5. Conditon to Exchange. Unless waived by the paFty entitled to the benefit thereof, it 
shi:dl be a conditioa precedent. to each party's obligation to complete the exchange that 
such party shall have completed: its review of ti,tle on their respective parcels and shall be ,--
satisfied that .there are no mortgages, liens, leases, ·easements; coveaants, restrictions, C _, . .' 
agreemeats or other encumbrances to title that wouldimateriaUy affect such party's ability 
to. use ,the applicable parcels for their intended use. Each party may oqtain, at its own 
-cost, title insurance for the proper,ty: that it receives in the exchange. 
6. Notices. AU. notices provided for herein to be deemed delivered when: sent to the 
following: 
If to: the County: 
Stlmmit €ounty Man.ager 
Summit County Courthouse 
P.O. Box 128 
· 60N. Maia : 
CoalviUe, Utah 84017 . 
Ifto the District: 
District Director 
SnyderviUe Basin Special Recreation District 
5715 Trailside Dr. 
Park City, Utah 84098 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS J 106 
(_ __ ; 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
91
EXHIBIT J Exchange Agreement 
Ifto the UAF: 
Utah Athletic Foundation 
Utah Olympic Park 
3419 Olympic Parkway 
Park City, Utah 84098 
7. Entire Agreement; Amendment Waiver. This Agreement constitutes the entire 
agreem.enf b>etween the parties pertaining to any right or interest in and to the County 
Open Space and UAF Expansion PaFcel and supersedes all ,prior agreements, 
representations, and understandings of the parties. No supplement, modification, or 
amendment of .this Agreement shall be binding unless executed in writing b>y all parties. 
No waiver of an.y of the provisions of this Agreement shaU be deemed, or shaH constitute, 
a waiver of any other provisions, whether or not similar, nor shall any waiver constitute a 
continuing :waiver. No waiver shaH be ·binding unless executed in wr,iting by the party 
making the waiver. Oril,y a ;wfiting executed by all parties clearly stating its termination 
may cancel this Agreement. 
8. Severability. Any provision hereof which is prohibited or unenforceable in any 
jurisdiction will, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or 
unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof, and any such 
prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction will not invalidate or render 
unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction. 
9. Authority. Each Party represents and warrants that it has full authority to perfonn as 
herein provided, and has received all consents necessary or desirable in connection with 
the execution of this Agreement. 
10. Execution. This Agreement may be executed by the execution of one of more 
counterparts and may b>e executed by sending an electronic copy of an executed 
Agreement to the other party hereto. 
11. Dispute Resolution. The parties agree that any dispute, arising related to this Agreement 
may first be sub>mitted to mediation. If mediation is mutually agreed upon then, the 
dispute shall be submitted to mediation through a mediation provider unanimously agreed 
upon by the parties. Each party agrees to bear its own costs of mediation. If, however, 
any party is required to take legal action to pursue any rights under this Agreement, then 
the prevailing party shall be entitled to attorneys' fees and costs. Each of the Parties 
agrees that the other Parties shall be entitled to enforce specifically this Agreement and 
the terms and provisions hereof in any action instituted in any court having jurisdiction 
over the Parties and the matter, in addition to any other remedy to which they may be 
entitled, at law or in equity. 
12. No Brokers. All parties represent to each other that they have not engaged a real estate 
broker or other professional to whom monies· might be owed by reason of this 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 107 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
92
EXHIBIT J Exchange Agreement 
transaction. The parties agree to indemnify and hold the other harmless from any and an 
costs, expenses or damages resulting from any claims for brokerage fees or otlier similar 
forms of compensation made by any real estate broker or any other person or entity 
because of the option and future sale contemplated by this Agreement. 
13. Jurisdiction. This Agreement sha11 be governed by and const:tmed in accordance with the 
laws of the state of Utah. The parties conseHt to the jurisdiction:of the courts of the state 
of Utah aHd further agree that any action arising out of or relating to this Agreement may 
only be eommen.cedin .the courts of the st~te of Ut~h. The terms and prov,isions of the 
Agreemen.t are for the benefit of the County, the District and: the UAF only ,an.d; no other 
person. shaH nave any right or cause of a:etion on account tnereof 
14. Binding Effect. This Agreement stia'l'l, be binding upon aHd inure to the benefit of the 
, County, the District, an.d the UAF and tneir i:espective successors and assigns . 
• I 
15. Assignment. This Agreemen.t may be ·assigned· with- the ,prior wi;itten permissioH of the 
. non-assig0ing party or parties,• which permission will Hot be umeasonably withheld. 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 108 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
93
EXHIBIT J Exchange Agreement 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been duly executed by the parties hereto 
as of the date written above. 
OCTOBER 2013 
SUMMIT COUNTY 
By:-----------­
Its: Manager 
SNYDBRVILLE BASIN SPECIAL RECREATION 
DISTRICT· 
By: -~--------~­
Its: Chair, G0verning Board 
UTAH ATHLETIC FOUNDATION, 
j :, ' ,. 
• By: --~-~------­
Its: ,. 
--------------
., J 
•UTAH OLYMPIC·P.ARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS.,l 109 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
94
EXHIBIT J Exchange Agreement 
Exhibit "A" 
To 
Exchange Agreement 
KJS Qpen Space 
. All of Lot 5, Kimball Junction Subdivisio~; 1st Amended (Tax Identification# KJS-5-
lAM-X), according to the official plat tnereof on fiile with the Office of the Recorder, Summit 
County, Utan, as entry 1rnmber 00909755, in Book 2054 begilllling at Page 0429, excepting 
therefrom any and all portions of the foHowing tract of land: 
A parcel of land located in the,southhalfof Sectton 24, Township 1 Sollth, Range 3 East, Salt 
Lake Base and Meridian, said parcel being more particularly described as follows: 
Beginning at a point that is North 89°51 '00" West 1862.00 feet along the section line and North 
100.00 feet from the southeast·comer of Section 24', Township 1 South, Range 3 East, Salt Lake 
Base and Meridian, said point being on the northerly boundary of the Utah Olympic Legacy 
boundary survey, recorded December 30, 2011, as Entry No. S-7392, in the office of the Summit 
Collnty Recorder, and running thence along said D0llndary North 89°51 '00" West 852.91 feet to 
the easternmost comer of Lot 6, Kimbal'l Junction Subdivision First Amended, recorded October 
28, 20 l 0, as Entry No. 909755, in the office of the Summit County Recorder; thence along the 
easterly a11d northerly bollndaries of Lot 6 the following three (3) courses: 1) Nortn 23°24'55" 
West 129.74 feet (record South 23°21 '29" East 131.10 feet); thence 2) North 89°51'19" West 
(record South 89°47'53" East) 231.42 feet; thence 3) North 40°05'25" West (record South 
40°01 '59" East) 23 7 .52 feet to a point on tne Olympic Park road right-of-way; thence Sollth 
54°04'54" East 149.45 feet; thence South 70°14'23" East 188.63 feet; thence North 04°1 l'l 1" 
West 89.33 feet; thence North 24°53'15" West 130.77 feet; thence North 39°20'43" East 71.27 
feet; thence South 66°35'26" East 100.19 feet; thence South 29°55'56" East 139.72 feet; thence 
North 88°20'38" East 269.08 feet; thence North 63°50'23" East 142.73 feet to the Olympic Park 
road right-of-way; thence along said right-of-way South 58°51 '40" East (record South 58°47'30" 
East) 100.00 feet; thence South 08°53'13" West 59.38 feet; thence South 60°00'3 l" East 428.94 
feet to the point of beginning. 
~-rS-5- lfrM-)( 
pf- ~~- 3-X 
PP- ~J-'f-i-­
PP-~ 3~ A-x 
PP-,s-:-A- x 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 110 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
95
EXHIBIT J Exchange Agreement 
Exhibit "B" 
To 
Exchange Agreement 
UOP Open Space 
A parcel of land located in the northeast quarter of Section 25, Township I South, Range 3 East, 
Salt Lake Base and Meridian, said parcel being more particularly described as follows: 
Beginning at a point that is NoFth 89°51'0011West 1650.00 feetalong the secti01di11e and South 
00°,03'43
11 
East 1650.00 feet alm1g the.Utah Olympic Legacyboundary from ,the northeast comer 
of Section 25, Township J South, Range 3 East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian, said point being 
on the ·bmmdary of the Utah Olympic Legacy boundary survey, recorded Dec.ember 30, 2011, as 
Entry No. S-7392, in the office of the Summit County RecOFder, and r,unning thence along the 
boundary the following three (3) courses: 1) South 89°51'00" East 1650.00 feet; thence 2) South 
00°03'43
11 
East 296.24 feet; theuce 3)South 89°59'52
11 
West 1652.63 feet; thence North 
00°26'27
11 
East 300.64 feet to the point of beginning. 
Description contains 11.31 acres: 
OCTOBER 2013- UTAH OLYMPIC:PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 111 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
96
EXHIBIT J Exchange Agreement 
Exhibit "C" 
To: 
Exchang~ Agreement 
UAF Expansion Parcel . 
A parcel of land located in the south half of Section 24, Township 1 South, Range 3 East, Salt 
Lake Base and Meridian, said parcel being more particularly described as follows: 
Beginning at a point that is North 89°5 l'OO" West 1862.00 feet along the section line and North 
100.00 feet from the southeast comer of Section 24, Township 1 South, Range 3 East, Salt Lake 
Base and Meridian, said•point being on the northerly boundary of the Utah Olympic Legacy 
boundary survey, recorded December 30, 2011, as Entry No. S-7392; intne office of the Summit 
County R.ecoFder, a:nd running thence al0ng said boundary. North 8 9°51 '00" West 852 .91 feet to. 
the easternmost 1,omer of Lot 6, Kimbal'l Junction Subdivision First Am.ended, recorded October 
28, 20;10; as Entry No: 909755; in the office of.the Summit County RecoFder; thence a10rtg the • 
eastei;ly andnortheflylf,oundaries of Lot 6 thefoUowing three(3) courses:, 1) North 23'°44.!55'' , 
West 129,74 feet (refordi South 23°21'29" East t31.l0 .feet}; thence 2) N0rth 89°51'19" West 
(record South 89°47'53 11 East) 231.42 feet; thence:3) North 40°05125" West(record·South 
40°01'59
11 
East) 237.52 feet to a point on the Olympic Park road right-of-way; thence South 
54°04'54
11 
East 149.45 feet,· thence South 70°14'23" East 188.63 feet,· thence North 04°1 l'll ": ·• 
West 89.33 feet; thence North 24°53'15" West 130.77 feet; thence North 39°20'43
11 
East 71.27 C'l 
feet; thence South 66°35'26
11 
East 100.19 feet; thence South 29°55'56
11 
East 139.72 feet; thence 
North 88°20'38" East 269.08 feet; thence North 63°50'23" Eastl42.73 feet to.the Olympic Park 
road right-of-way; thence along said right-of-way South 58°51 '40
11 
East (record South 58°47'30" 
East) 100.00 feet; thence South 08°53'13
11 
West 59.38 feet; thence South 60°00'31" East 428.94 
feet to the point of beginning. 
Description contains 5 .22 acres. 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH-OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 112 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
97
EXHIBIT J Exchange Agreement 
) 
OCTOBER 2013 . 
Exhibit "D" 
To 
Exchange Agreement 
Special Warranty Deed 
UAF Expansion Parcel 
[see attached] 
UTAH OLYMPIC'PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 113 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
98
EXHIBIT J Exchange Agreement 
AFTER RECORDED, PLEASE RETURN TO: 
Utah Athletic Foundation 
Utah Olympic Park 
3419 Olympic Parkway 
Park City, Utah 84098 
SPE€IAL W ARRAN'FY i>EED 
FOR GOOD AND VALUABLE CONSIDERATION, Summit Coun.ty, a political 
subdivision of the State of Utah, having a mailing address at 60 N. Main, Coalville, Utah 84017, 
and the Snyderville Basin Special Recreation District, a special service district, having a mailing 
address at 5715 Trailside Drive, Park City, Utah 84098 (the "Grantors") hereby CONVEY 
AND WARRANT, against those claiming by, through and under the Grantors and not otherwise, 
to the Utah Athletic Fom1dation, a Utah non-profit corporation (the "Grantee"), having a 
mailing address at Utah Olympic Park, 3419 Olympic Parkway, Park City, Utah 84098, the 
Grantors' right, title and interest in and to that certain tract of land located in Summit County, 
State of Utah, as follows: 
See Exhibit A hereto and incorporated by this reference as if fully set forth herein 
SUBJECT TO all restrictions, reservations, conservation easements and other conditions 
of record as may be disclosed by a record examination of title. 
TO HA VE AND TO HOLD the Subject Property, together with all tenements, 
hereditaments, and appurtenances thereunto belonging, 1:mto the Grantee, and its successors and 
assigns, forever. The Grantors do hereby covenant to and with the Grantee that the Grantee is 
owner in fee simple of the Subject Property aHd that the Grantors will warrant and defend the 
same from all lawful claims whatsoever arising by, through and under the Grantors and not 
otherwise. 
The undersigned further hereby acknowledges and affirms to the below named Notary 
Public that the undersigned appeared before such Notary Public and either executed this Deed 
before such Notary Public or acknowledged to such Notary Public that the undersigned executed 
this Deed for the purposes stated in it. 
DATED as of the __ day of ________ , 2013. 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 114 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
99
J 
EXHIBIT J Exchange Agreement 
STATE OF UTAH 
COUNTY OF -------
) 
:ss. 
) 
Summit County 
By:---,------------------
Pririt Name: -------------Title: ----------------
Sn:xderville Basin Special Recreation District 
By: _____________ ---'---
Print Name: -------------Title: ----------'------''--------
The foregoing instru~ent was acknowledged before me.this • __ .day of 
________ ,2013,by. ,ofSumrpit: 
County. 
My Commission Expires: 
STATE OF UTAH 
COUNTY OF -------
NOTARY PUBLIC 
Residing at:-------~-----
) 
:ss. 
) 
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this __ day of 
_________ ., 2013, by _______________ , of Summit 
County. 
NOTARY PUBLIC 
Residing at: ____________ _ 
My Commission Expires: 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 115 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
100
EXHIBIT J Exchange Agreement 
EXHIBIT A 
A parcel of land located in the south half of Section 24, Township 1 South, Range 3 East, Salt 
Lake Base and Meridian, said parcel being more p&rticularly described as follows: 
Beginning at a point that is North 89°51 '00
11 
West 1862.00 feet along the section line and North 
100.00 feet from the southeast corner of Section 24, Township 1 South, Range 3 East, Salt Lake 
Base and Meridian, said°poirtt being on the northerly boundary of the Utah Olympic Legacy 
boundary survey, recorded December 30, 2011, as Entry No. S-7392, in the office of the Summit 
County Recorder, and rmming thence along said boundary North 89°51 '00
11 
West 852.91 feet to 
the easternmost comer 0t:Lot 6, Kimball Junction Subdivision First Amended, recorded October 
28,2010, as Entry No. 909755, in the office ·of tlie Summit County Recorder; thence along the 
easterly and northerly boundaries of Lot 6 the following three (3) courses: 1) North 23°24'55
11 
West 129.74 feet (recoFd South 23°21'29
11 
East 131.10 f~et); thence 2) North 89°51'19
11 
West 
(record South 89°47'53
11 
Ea1>t) 231.42 feet; thence 3) North 40°05'25" West (r~cord· Soath 
40°01'59" East) 237.52 feetto a point on the Olympic Park road right-of-way; thence South 
54°04'54" East 149.45 feet; thence South 70°14'23" East 1·88.63 feet; thence North 04°1l'il". 
West 89.33 feet; thep.ce North 24°53'15" West 130.77 feet; thence North 39°20'43" East 71.27 
feet; thence South 66°35'26
11 
East 100.19 'feet; tlience South 29°55'50" East 139.72. feet; thence 
North 88°20'3·8" East 269.08 feet; thence North 63°50'23" East 142.73 feet to the Olympic Park 
road right-of-way; thence along said right-of-way South 58°51 '40
11 
East (record South 58°47'30" 
East) 100.00 feet; thence South 08°53'13" West 59.38 feet; thence South 60°00'31" East 428.94 
feet to the point of beginning. 
Description contains 5.22 acres. 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS j 116 
() 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
101
EXHIBIT J Exchange Agreement 
) 
OCTOBER 2013 
Exhibit "E" 
To 
Exchange Agreement 
Special Warranty Deed 
KJS Open Space 
[see attached] 
UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS j 117 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
102
EXHIBIT J Exchange Agreement 
AFTER RECORDED, PLEASE RETURN TO: 
Summit County Attorney 
P.O. Box 128 
60N. Main 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
SPECIAL WARRANTY DEED 
FOR GOOD AND VALUABLE CONSIDERATION, Utah Athletic Foundation, a Utah 
non-profit corporation (the "Grantor"), having a mailing address at Utah Olympic Park, 3419 
Olympic Parkway, Park City, Utah 84098, hereby CONVEYS AND WARRANTS, against those 
claiming by, through and under the Grantor and not otherwise, to Summit Coun.ty, a political 
subdivision of the State of Utah, having a maHing address at 60 N. Main, Coalville, Utah 84017 
(as to an undivided 37% interest) and the Snyderville Basin. Special Recreation District, a 
special service district, having a mailing address at 5715 Trailside Drive, Park City, Utah 84098 
(as to an undivided 63% in.terest) (together, the "Grantees"), the Grantor's right, title an.d 
interest in and to that certain tract ofland located in Summit County, State of Utah, as follows: 
See Exhibit A hereto and incorporated by this reference as if fully set forth herein 
SUBJECT TO all restrictions, reservations, conservation easements and other conditions 
of record as may be disclosed by a record examination of title. 
TO HA VE AND TO HOLD the Subject Property, together with all tenements, 
hereditaments, and appurtenances thereunto belonging, unto the Grantees, an.d their successors 
and assigns, forever. The Grantor does hereby covenant to and with the Grantees that the 
Grantees are owner in fee simple of the Subject Property and that the Grantor will warrant and 
defend the same from all lawful claims whatsoever arising by, through and under the Grantor and 
not otherwise. 
The undersigned further hereby acknowledges and affirms to the below named Notary 
Public that the undersigned appeared before such Notary Public and either executed this Deed 
before such Notary Public or acknowledged to such Notary Public that the undersigned executed 
this Deed for the purposes stated in it. 
DATED as of the __ day of ________ ., 2013. 
Utah Athletic Foundation 
By: ________________ _ 
Print Name: --------------Title: ----------------
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 118 
() 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
103
EXHIBIT J Exchange Agreement 
STATE OF UTAH 
COUNTY OF ------'------
) 
:ss. 
) 
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this __ day of 
________ , 2013, by ______________ , of Summit 
County. 
NOT ARY PUBLIC 
Residing at: ____________ _ 
My Commission Expires: 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 119 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
104
EXHIBIT J Exchange Agreement 
EXHIBIT A 
All of Lot 5, Kimball Junction Subdivision, 1st Amended (Tax Identification# KJS-5-
lAM-X), according to the official plat thereof on file with the Office of the Recorder, Summit 
County, Utah, as entry number 00909755, in B,ook 2054 beginning at Page 0429, ex~epting 
therefrom any and all portions of the following.tract of land: • 
A parcel of land located in the south half of Section 24, Township 1 South, Range 3 East, Salt 
Lake Base and Meridian, said parcel being more particularly described as follows: 
Beginniag at a point that is North 89°5l'00"
1
West 1862.00 feet along the section Iine and North 
100.00 feet from the southeast comer ofSection.24, Township 1 South, Range 3 East, Salt Lake 
Base and Meridian, said point being on the northerly boundary of the Utah Olympic Legacy 
boundary survey, recorded December 30, 2011, as Entry No. S-7392, in the office of Hie Summit 
County Recorder, and running thence along said boundary North 89°51 '00" West 852.91 feet to 
the easternmost comer of Lot 6, Kimball Junction Subdivision First Amended, recorded October 
28, 2010, as Entry No. 9097~5, in the office of the Summit County Recorder; thence along the 
easterly and northerly boundaries of Lot 6 the following three (3) courses: 1) North 23°24'55
11 
West 129.74 feet (record South 23°21'29
11 
East 131.10 feet); thence 2) North 89°51'19
11 
West 
(record South 89°47'53
11 
East) 231.42 feet; thence 3) North 40°05'25
11 
West (record South 
40°01'59
11 
East) 237.52 feet to a point on the Olympic Park road right-of-way; thence South 
54°04'54" East 149.45 feet; thence South 70°14'23
11 
East 188.63 feet; thence North 04°11'11
11 
West 89.33 feet; thence North 24°53'15
11 
West 130.77 feet; thence North 39°20'4.3
11 
East 71.27 
feet; thence South 66°35'26
11 
East 100.19 feet; thence South 29°55'56" East 139.72 feet; thence 
North 88°20'38" East 269.08 feet; thence North 63°50'23
11 
East 142.73 feet to the Olympic Park 
road right-of-way; thence along said right-of-way South 58°51 '40
11 
East (record South 58°47'30
11 
East) 100.00 feet; thence South 08°53'13
11 
West 59.38 feet; thence South 60°00'31" East 428.94 
feet to the point of beginning. 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 120 
() 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
105
EXHIBIT J Exchange Agreement 
OCTOBER 2013 
Exhibit "F" 
To 
Exchange Agreement 
Special Warranty Deed 
UOP Open Space 
[see attached] 
UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 121 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
106
EXHIBIT J Exchange Agreement 
AFTER RECORDED, PLEASE RETURN TO: 
Summit County Attorney 
P.O. Box 128 
60N. Main 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
SPECIAL WARRANTY DEED 
FOR GOOD AND VALUABLE CONSIDERATION, Utah Athletic Foundation, a Utah 
non-profit corporation (the "Grantor"), having a mailing address at Utah Olympic Park, 3419 
Olympic Parkway, Park City, Utah 84098, hereby CONVEYS AND WARRANTS, against those 
claiming by, through and under the Grantor and not otherwise, to Summit County, a political 
subdivision of the State ofUtah,haviag a mailing address at 60 N. Main, Coalville, Utah 84017 
(as to aa undivided 37% interest) and the Snyderville Basin Special RecFeation District, a 
special service district, having a mailing address at 5715 Trailside Drive, Park City, Utah 84098 
(as to an undivided 63% interest) (together, the "Grantees"), the Grantor's right, title and 
interest in and to that certain tract ofland located in Summit County, State of Utah, as follows: 
See Exhibit A hereto and incorporated by this reference as if fully set forth herein 
SUBJECT TO all restrictions, reservations, conservation easements and other conditions (O>, 
of record as may be disclosed by a record examination of title. _ J 
TO HAVE AND TO HOLD the Subject Property, together with all tenements, 
hereditaments, and appurtenances thereunto beloaging, unto the Grantees, and their successors 
and assigns, forever. The Grantor does hereby covenant to and with the Grantees that the 
Grantees are owner in fee simple of the Subject Property and that the Grantor will warrant and 
defend the same from all lawful claims whatsoever arising by, thmugh and under the Grantor and 
not otherwise. 
The undersigned further hereby acknowledges and affirms to the below named Notary 
Public that the undersigned appeared before such Notary P1:1blic and either executed this Deed 
before such Notary Public or acknowledged to such Notary Public that the undersigned executed 
this Deed for the purposes stated in it. 
DATED as of the __ day of ________ , 2013. 
OCTOBER 2013 
Utah Athletic Foundation 
By:----------------­
Print Name: --------------Title: ----------------
UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 122 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
107
'· _) 
EXHIBIT J Exchange Agreement 
STATE OF UTAH 
COUNTY OF -------
) 
:ss. 
) 
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this __ clay of 
_________ , 2013, by ____ ~----------' of Summit 
County. 
NOTARY PUBLIC 
R~~iding at: ____________ _ 
My Commission Expires: 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPICPARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 123 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
108
EXHIBIT J Exchange Agreement 
EXHIBIT A 
A parcel of land located in the northeast quarter of Section 25, Township 1 South, Range 3 East, 
Salt Lake Base and Meridian,.said parcel betng more particularly d(;:scribe~ as follows: 
Beginning at a point that is North 89°51 '00" West 1650.00 feet along the section line and South 
00°03'43" East 1650.00 feet along the Utah Olympic Legacy boundary from the northeast comer 
of Section 25, Township 1 South, Range 3 East, .Salt Lake Base and Meridian, said point being 
on the boundary of the Utah Olympic Legacy boundary survey, recorded December 30, 2011, as 
Entry No. S-7392, in the office of the Summit County Recorder, and running thence along the 
boundary the following three (3) courses: 1) South 89°51 '00" East 1650.00fee~; thence 2) South 
00°03'43" East 296.24 feet; thence 3) South 89°59'52" West 1652.63 feet;.therice North • 
00°26'27" East 300.64 feet to the point of beginning. 
Description contains 11.31 acres. 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS I 124 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
109
I, )' •·, 
Supplementary SPA 
Submittal Documents 
In 1:he in1:eres1: or environmen1:al sus1:ainabili1:y, 1:he Full TraFFic 
Impact: 51:udy & Cons1:ruc1:ion Managemen1:/Mi1:iga1:ion Plan are 
available a1: 1:he Summit: Coun1:y vvebsi1:e or by con1:ac1:ing Coun1:y 
Planner, Amir Caus. 
OCTOBER 2013 UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPA PLAN UPDATED BOOK OF EXHIBITS j 125 
Exhibit 3: Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
110
FOURTH AMENDED DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT 1 
FOR THE UTAH OLYMPIC PARK SPECIALLY PLANNED AREA 2 
KIMBALL JUNCTION, SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH 3 
THIS 4TH AMENDED DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT is entered into as of this 4 
____day of ______, 2025, between the Utah Athletic Foundation, dba Utah Olympic 5 
Legacy Foundation (“UOLF”) , a Utah non-profit corporation ("Developer") and Summit6 
County, a political subdivision of the State of Utah, by and through its County Council 7 
(the "County"), for the Utah Olympic Park Specially Planned Area ("Olympic Park SPA"). 8 
The County and Developer are individually referred to herein as a "Party" and jointly 9 
referred to herein as the "Parties." 10 
Article 1 11 
DEFINITIONS 12 
*Any term not defined herein shall default to the definition within the Snyderville13 
Basin Development Code.14 
1.1 Affordable Athlete and Workforce Housing Unit (“AAWHU”) means an 15 
AWHU that is dedicated to fulfilling affordable housing requirements as 16 
delineated in Exhibit H. 17 
18 
1.2 Approved Uses means the approved uses which are shown on the Land Use 19 
and Zoning Charts, which are included in the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of 20 
Exhibits as Exhibit C and may or may not be shown on the Conceptual Master 21 
Plan included as Exhibit B. 22 
23 
1.3 Architectural Design Guidelines means the Architectural Design Guidelines for 24 
the Project, a copy of which is included in the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of 25 
Exhibits as Exhibit D. 26 
27 
1.4 Athlete and Workforce Housing Unit (“AWHU”) means a housing 28 
unit as designated by Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation for the use of 29 
Athletes and Workforce training or working at the Utah Olympic Park. 30 
AWHUs can leased on a long-term or short-term basis with priority 31 
given to Workforce, Athletes, Teams, Partner Organizations and 32 
Community Members in priority order. For the purposes of this 33 
Agreement AWHU are classified as Dwelling Units.  34 
35 
1.5 Athlete Dormitory Dwelling Unit means Athlete and Workforce 36 
Housing Unit (AWHU). 37 
38 
Exhibit 4: Clean Proposed DA 4th Amended
111
1.6 Athlete Support Facilities means AWHU, AAWHU and may include 39 
Hotel, Lodging, Commercial and any uses substantially related to the 40 
conduct of winter sports training, hosting of competitions and athletic 41 
events and that comply with all other covenants and restrictions 42 
applicable to the Utah Olympic Park. 43 
 44 
1.7 Building Permit means a permit issued pursuant to the requirements of the 45 
Snyderville Basin Development Code, International Building Code and related 46 
building codes as applicable in the Snyderville Basin Planning District, including 47 
permits for grading, footings and foundations and construction of other 48 
improvements. 49 
 50 
1.8 Code means the Snyderville Basin Development Code. 51 
 52 
1.9 Comprehensive Sign Plan means the Comprehensive Sign Plan for the Project 53 
which is included in the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits as Exhibit G. 54 
1.10 County means Summit County, a political subdivision of the State of Utah. 55 
1.11 Developer means the Utah Athletic Foundation, a Utah non-profit corporation, its 56 
affiliate entities, and its assignees or transferees. The Utah Athletic Foundation 57 
operates under the d.b.a. Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation operating facilities 58 
and programs at the Utah Olympic Park in Park City, Utah the Utah Olympic Oval 59 
in Kearns, Utah, and Soldier Hollow in Wasatch County, Utah. 60 
1.12 Development Agreement means this Development Agreement and any 61 
amendments. 62 
1.13 Director means the Summit County Community Development Director. 63 
1.14 General Plan means the Snyderville Basin General Plan of the County. 64 
1.15 Hotel, Inn means amenities may include but are not limited to conference areas, 65 
retail support, food and beverage, locker rooms, storage, and other uses 66 
customarily associated with hotels and recreational lodging. Hotel/Lodging units 67 
may be professionally or independently branded, managed, or operated.  68 
 69 
 70 
1.15.1 Hotel Room means a unit consisting of one room that may contain 71 
a kitchen, intended for temporary living and sleeping purposes and 72 
including a separate, exclusive bathroom.  73 
 74 
1.15.2 Hotel Suite means a unit consisting of more than one room that 75 
may contain a kitchen, intended for temporary living and sleeping 76 
purposes and including at least one separate, exclusive bathroom. 77 
Exhibit 4: Clean Proposed DA 4th Amended
112
1.16 Land Use Laws means zoning, subdivision, development, growth management, 78 
platting, environmental, open space, transportation and other land use plans, 79 
policies, ordinances and regulations existing and in force for the County as of the 80 
date of this Development Agreement, and as may be amended from time to time. 81 
1.17 Landscaping Plan means the Landscaping Plan based on the Master 82 
Conceptual Site Plan, as amended, for the Project which is included in the 83 
Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits as Exhibit E.  84 
1.18 Lighting Plan means the Lighting Plan for the Project based on the Master 85 
Conceptual Site Plan, as amended, which is included in Exhibit F of the Olympic 86 
Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits. 87 
1.19 Low Impact Development means when specifically designated as a low impact 88 
activity in the Development Agreement or in the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of 89 
Exhibits, such uses shall be subject to a Low Impact Permit review and approval 90 
by the Director in accordance with the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits 91 
and all applicable provisions of the Snyderville Basin Development Code. 92 
1.20 Master Conceptual Site Plan means the site plan, which are included in the 93 
Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits as Exhibit B, establishing anticipated 94 
development layout, architectural, landscaping, lighting, and other development 95 
details for the Project, as such are amended. 96 
1.21 Multi-family Dwelling Unit means a structure containing two or more 97 
individual dwelling units sharing common horizontal floors/ceilings 98 
that are intended for separate households, where each unit provides 99 
independent facilities for one or more persons, including provisions 100 
for sleeping, cooking, and sanitation. This term expressly includes, 101 
but is not limited to: 102 
 103 
1.21.1 Condominium Units: Individually owned residential 104 
units within a multi-family structure or complex governed 105 
by a condominium association or similar common 106 
interest community organization, where ownership 107 
includes a fractional interest in common amenities 108 
included in the building. 109 
1.22 Olympic Park means the Utah Winter Sports Park, Summit County, Utah. 110 
1.23 Olympic Park SPA means the zone district adopted and approved on March 14, 111 
2012 by Ordinance No. 821; on November 6, 2013, by Ordinance No. 819; and 112 
any additional amendments. 113 
1.24 Olympic Park SPA Plan means a comprehensive plan, set forth in this 114 
Development Agreement and SPA Plan Book of Exhibits and amendments 115 
Exhibit 4: Clean Proposed DA 4th Amended
113
hereto, establishing the Approved Uses and Final Site Plans and providing 116 
processes for obtaining Building Permits and other approvals for implementing 117 
the Olympic Park SPA. 118 
1.25 Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits means that portion of the Olympic 119 
Park SPA Plan which contains the Final Site Plans, Landscaping Plan, Lighting 120 
Plan, Land Use and Zoning Charts and all other guidelines and standards that 121 
shall be used to guide all development in the Olympic Park SPA and all other 122 
specific development parameters and regulations, including developer 123 
obligations, commitments, and contributions for carrying out the development in 124 
accordance with the Olympic Park SPA Plan. 125 
1.26 Phase means one of the proposed individual Phases as shown on the Final Site 126 
Plans. 127 
1.27 Phases means, collectively, the individual proposed Phases as shown on the 128 
Final Site Plans. 129 
1.28 Planning Commission means the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission. 130 
1.29 Project means the development of approximately 393 acres of land and 131 
appurtenant real property rights located in Summit County, Utah, the legal 132 
description of such land is attached hereto as Exhibit A of the Olympic Park SPA 133 
Plan Book of Exhibits, pursuant to the Olympic Park SPA Plan and this 134 
Development Agreement and any of its Exhibits hereto. 135 
1.30 Public Benefits means public infrastructure or public service facilities at the 136 
Project benefiting the public as further set forth and described in Article 7 below 137 
and in Exhibit H of the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits. 138 
1.31 Ridgeline Structures means structures located on ridgelines as viewed from 139 
Interstate 80, SR-224, SR-248, and U.S.-40. Development of Ridgeline 140 
Structures shall be prohibited except as outlined for Athlete Support uses in 141 
existing agreements with adjacent property owners, previous approved site 142 
plans, and resort lifts and runs.  143 
1.32 Ski Lifts, New means a mechanical device to transport passengers and cargo 144 
by means of chairs or enclosed compartments attached to a cable or to rails, 145 
including each of the devices described in Section 72-11-102 of the Utah Code 146 
Annotated, as amended. Includes ski tows and ski lifts. 147 
1.33 Ski Lifts, Modification means a minor modification of a lawfully created Ski Lift 148 
which is less than a fifteen percent (15%) increase of the existing total acreage of 149 
disturbed area for said Ski Lift but no greater than five (5) acres. 150 
1.34 Ski Run, New means a designated slope, trail, or course on a mountain or hill 151 
that is intended, prepared and maintained for snow sports. 152 
Exhibit 4: Clean Proposed DA 4th Amended
114
Ski Run, Modification means a minor modification of a lawfully created Ski Run which 153 
is less than a fifteen percent (15%) increase of the existing total acreage of said Ski 154 
Run but no greater than five (5) acres.  155 
Article 2 156 
RECITALS 157 
2.1 The recitals in the remainder of this Article 2, together with the findings set forth 158 
in Article 3, are an integral part of this Development Agreement and are a part of 159 
the consideration for each Party's entry into this Development Agreement. 160 
2.2 Developer is the record owner of the Project or has contractual rights to acquire 161 
any such portions thereof as are not owned of record by Developer. Developer, 162 
County and the Snyderville Basin Special Recreation District have entered into 163 
that certain Exchange Agreement, dated November 6,2013, attached hereto as 164 
Exhibit J, whereby various parcels of property have been exchanged between 165 
the entities. Such exchanges have enabled Developer to relocate portions of the 166 
proposed residential uses at the Project in order to, among other benefits, further 167 
minimize visibility to and from Kimball Junction. It is further agreed that such 168 
exchange will not alter the overall density rights for the Project. 169 
2.3 This Development Agreement serves to implement the Olympic Park SPA and 170 
Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits which are incorporated by reference 171 
herein. 172 
2.4 This Development Agreement and the Olympic Park SPA Plan resolve all issues 173 
associated with the development and construction of the Project except, as to the 174 
performance of any additional obligations which shall be specified in this 175 
Development Agreement. 176 
2.5 The County has adopted through Ordinance No. 819 an amendment to the 177 
General Plan, the Code and the Zoning Map classifying the Project as a Resort 178 
Center (RC) zone and setting forth therein such land use classifications and 179 
development locations as are permitted under this Development Agreement. 180 
2.6 Developer has proposed specific plans and plats with respect to the Project in 181 
response to direction and  guidance from the Director and the Planning 182 
Commission. 183 
2.7 The County therefore desires to establish the Olympic Park SPA under the SPA 184 
provisions of the Code and the General Plan for the purpose of implementing 185 
development standards and processes that are consistent therewith. 186 
2.8 The Development Agreement, which implements the Olympic Park SPA, provides 187 
detailed data regarding the Final Site Plans for the Project. The County and 188 
Developer agree that each shall comply with the standards and procedures 189 
Exhibit 4: Clean Proposed DA 4th Amended
115
contemplated by the Olympic Park SPA, this Development Agreement and its 190 
accompanying Exhibits, the Code, and the General Plan with respect to obtaining 191 
future Building Permits for any Phases or new construction within the Project. 192 
2.9 Developer and the County desire to clarify certain standards and procedures that 193 
will be applied to approvals of Building Permits for the Phases of the 194 
development and construction and to address requirements for certain Public 195 
Benefits. 196 
2.10 The County also desires to receive certain Public Benefits, and Developer is 197 
willing to provide these Public Benefits in consideration of the agreement of the 198 
County for increased intensity of uses in the Olympic Park SPA pursuant to the 199 
terms of this Development Agreement. 200 
2.11 The County, acting pursuant to its authority under Utah Code Annotated, Section 201 
17-27a-101 et seq., the Code and the General Plan, has made certain 202 
determinations with respect to the Olympic Park SPA, and, in the exercise of its 203 
legislative discretion, has elected to approve the uses, density, and general 204 
configuration of the Project and its future development pursuant to the Olympic 205 
Park SPA, resulting in  the negotiation, consideration and approval of this 206 
Development Agreement, after all necessary public hearings. 207 
Article 3 208 
FINDINGS 209 
The County Council of the County, acting in its legislative capacity, has made the 210 
following determinations with respect to the Olympic Park SPA Plan set forth in this 211 
Article 3, including all findings of fact and conclusions of law as are necessary to make 212 
each of such determinations: 213 
3.1 Following a lawfully advertised public hearing, Developer received a positive 214 
recommendation for amendments to this Development Agreement by action of 215 
the Planning Commission taken on _____________, 2025. 216 
3.2 The County Council held a lawfully advertised public hearing on ____________, 217 
2025, and during a lawfully advertised public meeting on that same date, 218 
approved this Amended Development Agreement under the processes and 219 
procedures set forth in the Code and General Plan. 220 
3.3 The terms and conditions of approval are incorporated fully into this 221 
Development Agreement. In making such approval, the County Council made 222 
such findings of fact and conclusions Of law as are required as a condition to the 223 
approvals, as reflected in the staff recommendation, as reflected in the minutes 224 
of the above referenced public meetings, and as reflected by the other 225 
enumerated findings herein. 226 
Exhibit 4: Clean Proposed DA 4th Amended
116
3.4 The Olympic Park SPA provides substantial, tangible benefits to the general 227 
public of the Snyderville Basin that significantly outweigh those that would be 228 
derived if the development occurred under the provisions of the existing zone. 229 
The provisions of those benefits and amenities have been taken into 230 
consideration by Summit County in granting increased residential and 231 
commercial densities on the Project. 232 
3.5 The Olympic Park SPA Plan, as reflected in and conditioned by the terms and 233 
conditions of the Development Agreement and the amendments thereto, is in 234 
conformity and compliance with the General Plan, any existing capital 235 
improvement programs, the provisions of the Code (including concurrency and 236 
infrastructure requirements), and all other development requirements of the 237 
County. 238 
3.6 The Olympic Park SPA Plan contains outstanding features which advance the 239 
policies, goals and objectives of the General Plan beyond mere conformity, 240 
including the following: (i) agreements with respect to design controls and 241 
limitations to minimize the visual impact of the Project; (ii) dedication and 242 
preservation of view shed and environmental features; (iii) taking advantageous 243 
use of natural depressions in topography to minimize the visual prominence and 244 
potential for ridge lining; (iv) appropriate location of density and uses; (v) the 245 
preservation of critical open space areas; (vi) the promotion of recreation uses 246 
and resort related Public Benefits that are appropriate to support the community 247 
and recreational nature of the area; (vii) contribution to community trails and 248 
parks including working with the Snyderville Basin Special Recreation District to 249 
identify possible trail linkages and trail heads; (viii) exceeding open space 250 
requirements for the Project; (ix) using efforts to minimize visibility of the 251 
residential housing to and from Kimball Junction; (x) provides incentives to 252 
private development partners to avoid depleting the endowment established 253 
to fund the operation of the venues operated by the Developer. 254 
3.7 There are unique circumstances that justify the use of a SPA, including 255 
preserving the long-term viability of the Olympic Park. County and Developer 256 
acknowledge that the existing facilities were built by the State of Utah without 257 
any zoning or building approvals. In order to preserve the long-term viability of 258 
the Olympic Park, additional funding is needed to avoid depleting the 259 
endowment established to fund the operation of the Olympic Park. Expanded 260 
commercial development within the Olympic Park SPA is one way to provide this 261 
funding. 262 
3.8 Developer has committed to comply with Affordable Housing Requirements 263 
consistent with other resort areas in Summit County and as delineated in Exhibit 264 
H herein. County acknowledges and agrees that to the extent that Developer 265 
exceeds the minimum unit equivalent Affordable Housing Requirements under 266 
Exhibit H, Developer may use such additional housing in any manner it sees fit 267 
consistent with the terms of this Agreement including  provisions for residential 268 
uses or Hotel, Inn, including, but not limited to, charging a higher rental rate and 269 
Exhibit 4: Clean Proposed DA 4th Amended
117
utilizing such housing as nightly rentals for visiting athletes, Olympic Park 270 
guests, or officials. 271 
3.9 Subject to the terms of this Development Agreement, Developer has committed 272 
to comply with all appropriate concurrency and infrastructure requirements of the 273 
Code, and all appropriate criteria and standards described in the Development 274 
Agreement and the amendments thereto, including any applicable impact fees of 275 
the County and its Special Districts (subject to Articles 6.1 and 6.2 below). 276 
3.10 There exist adequate provisions for mitigation of all fiscal and service impacts on 277 
the general public. 278 
3.11 Any construction management impacts shall be addressed in the Construction 279 
Management and Mitigation Plan established for the Olympic Park SPA and 280 
approved by the County Engineer, as required in Article 4.6 hereof. 281 
3.12 The approval of the Olympic Park SPA Plan will not adversely affect the public 282 
health, safety and general welfare of the residents of Summit County, it being 283 
acknowledged that the proposed Project will substantially enhance and benefit 284 
the public health, safety and general welfare of the residents of Summit County. 285 
3.13 The Olympic Park SPA Plan meets or exceeds development quality and 286 
aesthetic objectives of the General Plan and the Code, is consistent with the 287 
goal of orderly growth in the Snyderville Basin, and minimizes construction 288 
impacts on public infrastructure within the Snyderville Basin. 289 
3.14 The proposed development reasonably assures life and property within the 290 
Snyderville Basin is protected from any adverse impact of its development, it 291 
being acknowledged that the proposed Project will substantially enhance and 292 
benefit life and property within the Snyderville Basin. 293 
3.15 Developer shall take reasonably appropriate measures to prevent harm to 294 
neighboring properties and lands from development, including nuisances. 295 
3.16 Exemption from Code. The County Council acting pursuant to its authority under 296 
Utah Code Annotated 17-27a-101 et seq., as well as its regulations and 297 
guidelines, in the exercise of its legislative discretion, has determined that the 298 
Olympic Park SPA is exempt from the application of the Code solely to the extent 299 
that such a finding may be a condition precedent to approval of this 300 
Development Agreement. Where there is a direct conflict between an express 301 
provision of this Development Agreement and the Code or General Plan or other 302 
Land Use Laws, this Development Agreement shall take precedence; otherwise, 303 
the Code, General Plan, or other Land Use Laws shall control. 304 
 305 
Article 4 306 
Exhibit 4: Clean Proposed DA 4th Amended
118
APPROVALS/PHASED DEVELOPMENT OF THE PROJECT 307 
4.1 Approval. The approval and execution of this Development Agreement by the 308 
County and Developer constitutes approval of the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book 309 
of Exhibits (listed below), as if fully set forth herein at length and shall be binding 310 
upon the Parties hereto. 311 
 312 
4.1.1 Project and Legal Description of the Project (Exhibit A) – Amended 2025 313 
4.1.2 Master Conceptual Site Plan (Exhibit B) – Amended 2025 314 
4.1.3 Land Use and Zoning Charts (Exhibit C) – Amended 2025 315 
4.1.4 Architectural Guidelines (Exhibit D) 316 
4.1.5 Landscaping Plan (Exhibit E) – see amendments to 4.1.2 317 
4.1.6 Lighting Plan (Exhibit F) – see amendments to 4.1.2 318 
4.1.7 Comprehensive Sign Plan (Exhibit G) – see amendments to 4.1.2 319 
4.1.8 Community Benefits (Exhibit H) – Amended 2025 320 
4.1.9 Future Olympic Transportation and Security Staging Areas (Exhibit I) 321 
4.1.10 Exchange Agreement (Exhibit J) 322 
4.1.11 Supplementary SPA Submittal Materials (Exhibit K) 323 
4.2 Project Phasing. The Project may be constructed in Phases by Developer as 324 
shown in Exhibit B of the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits 325 
4.3 Parking. Parking of vehicles on the Property shall be in accordance with the 326 
Final Site Plans. The parking and display of UAF Sponsor vehicles shall be 327 
limited to the areas on the Property designated in the foregoing sentence and as 328 
identified in Exhibit B of the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits. 329 
4.4 Building Permit Required. Subject to Article 6. l, prior to the commencement of 330 
each structure, a Building Permit shall be required from the County in 331 
accordance with all applicable requirements of the Code, the International 332 
Building Code, and other related codes applicable to the Snyderville Basin 333 
Planning District. 334 
4.5 Compliance of Building Permits with Development Agreement. A Building Permit 335 
for each structure shall comply with the conditions specified in this Development 336 
Agreement. 337 
4.6 Construction Mitigation and Management Plan Required. A Building Permit will 338 
not be issued for any facility or structure within the Olympic Park SPA until an 339 
adequate Construction Management and Mitigation Plan has been established 340 
for the Olympic Park SPA and approved by the County Engineer, who may 341 
require changes to address any unforeseen impacts that occur during 342 
construction. The plan shall address the following matters specifically, together 343 
with any other related matters identified by the Summit County Community 344 
Development Director and Developer. A separate plan may be established for 345 
each Phase.  346 
Exhibit 4: Clean Proposed DA 4th Amended
119
4.6.1 Revegetation/erosion protection/runoff control 347 
4.6.2 Site grading 348 
4.6.3 Dust and debris control 349 
4.6.4 Recycling construction material waste 350 
4.6.5 Damage to public roadways as a result of construction 351 
4.6.6 Traffic control/construction management control 352 
4.6.7 Hours of construction 353 
4.6.8 Staging and screening of construction materials and equipment 354 
4.6.9 Construction lighting, construction security, and fire protection 355 
4.6.10 Solid Waste Disposal for construction wastes 356 
4.6.11 Parking 357 
4.7 Compliance with Concurrency Management Standards Required. In addition to 358 
compliance with the criteria required under the Code, the following service 359 
provider and concurrency information shall also be required and reviewed along 360 
with any Building Permit. Upon receiving such information, the Director shall 361 
prepare a report(s) identifying issues and concerns related to the proposal. The 362 
following additional information shall be provided: 363 
4.7.1 Water Service. 364 
4.7.1.1 A Feasibility letter for the proposed water supply issued by the 365 
State Division of Drinking Water. 366 
4.7.1.2 Evidence of coordination with the public or private water service 367 
provider, including an  agreement for service and an indication of 368 
the service area of the proposed water supplier, commitment 369 
service letter or other binding arrangement for the provision of 370 
water services. 371 
4.7.1.3 Evidence that water rights have been obtained including an 372 
application for appropriation or change application endorsed by 373 
the State Engineer pursuant to Section 73-3-10 of the Utah Code, 374 
and a certificate of appropriation or certificate of change issued in 375 
accordance with Section 73-3-16 of the Utah Code. The County 376 
shall not accept an application or certificate that has lapsed, 377 
expired or been revoked by the State Engineer. 378 
Exhibit 4: Clean Proposed DA 4th Amended
120
4.7.1.4 A certificate of convenience and necessity or an exemption 379 
therefrom, issued by the State Public Service Commission, for 380 
the proposed water supplier. 381 
4.7.2 Fire Protection. 382 
4.7.2.1 A letter from the Park City Fire District (PCFD) indicating that fire 383 
hydrants, water lines sizes, water storage for fire protection, and 384 
minimum flow for fire protection are adequate. These shall be 385 
determined using the standards of the Insurance Services Office 386 
which are known as the Fire System Grading Standards. In no 387 
case shall minimum fire flow be less than 1,000 gallons per 388 
minute for a period of two (2) hours. 389 
4.7.2.2 Written evidence to the County and the Park City Fire District 390 
(PCFD) verifying that an authorized water company shall be 391 
responsible for the perpetual and continual maintenance of all fire 392 
protection appurtenances, including annual flagging of all 393 
hydrants prior to November 1st of each year. 394 
4.7.3 Recreation. A letter from the Snyderville Basin Special Recreation District 395 
(Recreation District) indicating that all requirements of the Recreation 396 
District and the terms of this Development Agreement have been 397 
satisfied. 398 
4.8 Comprehensive Sign Plan Required. Although not currently permitted under the 399 
Development Code, the County Council, in their legislative capacity hereby finds: 400 
l ) that there exists currently, a comprehensive sign plan for the Project; and 2) 401 
that the existing sign regulations do not and cannot meet the needs of the 402 
Project and that given the nature of the Project and its uses, the Comprehensive 403 
Sign Plan which is included in the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits as 404 
Exhibit G, is appropriate for the Project. The Comprehensive Sign Plan 405 
addresses all design, size, location, lighting, and other related standards for all 406 
commercial business identification signs, residential development identification 407 
signs, directional signs, and any other signs that may be contemplated by the 408 
Developer. 409 
4.9 Lighting Plan Required. The Lighting Plan which is included in the Olympic Park 410 
SPA Plan Book of Exhibits as Exhibit F, is appropriate for the Project. The 411 
adopted Lighting Plan includes requirements that to the maximum extent 412 
possible, there be no bleeding or spillover from the lighting and that as 413 
technology and energy efficiency improves, use of those technologies is 414 
encouraged but not required so long as the intent to limit the impacts of lighting 415 
are met. 416 
4.10 Land Use and Zoning Charts. There is hereby adopted Land Use and Zoning 417 
Charts which sets forth the uses, densities and processes by which development 418 
Exhibit 4: Clean Proposed DA 4th Amended
121
at the Project shall occur. The Land Use and Zoning Charts are included in the 419 
Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits as Exhibit C. 420 
4.11 Design Review Committee. There is hereby established a Design Review 421 
Committee ("DRC") which shall be made up of five (5) members. The 422 
membership shall include two (2) members of the Snyderville Basin Planning 423 
Commission and one (1) planner from the Summit County Community 424 
Development Department. The remaining membership shall be appointed by the 425 
Developer. 426 
4.11.1 Prior to the submission of any development application for the Project, the 427 
DRC shall meet, review and confirm compliance with the Olympic Park 428 
SPA and the Architectural Guidelines. In addition to its compliance review, 429 
the DRC may make additional comments or recommendations to 430 
Developer with respect to the development application and Developer 431 
shall reasonably consider any such comments or recommendations and 432 
shall use reasonable efforts to address such comments or 433 
recommendations in the final development application for the Project filed 434 
with the County. 435 
4.11.2 Upon receiving notice from the Developer of any development application, 436 
the DRC shall meet and confer within sixty (60) days of that notice. 437 
Failure to meet within that time period shall be deemed an "approval" of 438 
the application which may then be filed with the County. 439 
4.12 Low Impact Permit Approval. Whenever in this Development Agreement a low 440 
impact activity or approval process is designated or required, the Developer shall 441 
submit for approval and review by the County all applicable information and 442 
documents in accordance with the provisions of Section 10-3-4 of the Code, as 443 
amended. With regard to this Development Agreement, the qualifications set 444 
forth in Section 10-3-4 of the Code shall be expanded to allow compliance with 445 
the terms and provisions of this Development Agreement. 446 
4.13 Conditional Use Permit Approval. Whenever in this Development Agreement a 447 
conditional use or approval process is designated or required, the Developer 448 
shall submit for approval and review by the County all applicable information and 449 
documents in accordance with the provisions of Section 10-3-5 of the Code, as 450 
amended. With regard to this Development Agreement, the qualifications set 451 
forth in Section 10-3-5 of the Code shall be expanded to allow compliance with 452 
the terms and provisions of this Development Agreement. 453 
4.14 Temporary Use Permit Approval. Whenever in this Development Agreement a 454 
temporary use or approval process is designated or required, Developer shall 455 
submit for approval and review by the County all applicable information and 456 
documents in accordance with the provisions of Section 10-3-3 of the Code, as 457 
amended. With regard to this Development Agreement, the qualifications set 458 
Exhibit 4: Clean Proposed DA 4th Amended
122
forth in Section 10-3-3 of the Code shall be expanded to allow compliance with 459 
the terms and provisions of this Development Agreement. 460 
4.15 Development Improvements Agreement Required. A Development 461 
Improvements Agreement ("DIA") shall be required. No building, grading, or 462 
other related development permit shall be issued for any project or structure 463 
within the Project until a Development Improvements Agreement in a form 464 
acceptable to Summit County has been accepted by the County. The Staff shall 465 
review the Developer's proposal for a Development Improvements Agreement 466 
and provide its recommendation to the County Engineer for approval. A separate 467 
Development Improvements Agreement may be established for each Phase of 468 
the development. Improvements which shall be guaranteed include: 469 
4.15.1 All utilities, including water and sewer service. 470 
4.15.2 All Public and Private roads, inclusive of all "Civil Improvements" 471 
associated with the roadway. 472 
4.15.3 All "Civil Improvements" associated with individual project site plans. 473 
4.15.4 Temporary and permanent, structural and non-structural soil conservation 474 
measures. 475 
4.15.5 Bus Shelters. 476 
4.15.6 Temporary and permanent, structural and non-structural run off control 477 
measures. 478 
4.15.7 Required buffering, screening, and landscaping. 479 
4.15.8 All public trails shall be constructed, with respect to timing and design, as 480 
required by this Development Agreement. 481 
4.15.9 All private trails. 482 
4.15.10 The County shall have the option of using the guarantee for Site 483 
Restoration, should development not be completed within the required 484 
construction schedule or complete the project per the approved Final Site 485 
Plans. The Development Improvements Agreement, in the form and 486 
amount of guarantee to be approved by the County Engineer, shall 487 
establish a security to complete improvements, warranties after 488 
completion, schedules for completing all improvements, and remedy 489 
provisions in the event of a default. It is understood by the Parties that 490 
Developer has previously installed most of the public improvements and 491 
that the security herein pertains in large part to site restoration and re-492 
vegetation. Said improvements shall be warranted by the Developer for a 493 
period of one full year of normal operation from the date of completion, as 494 
established by the County Engineer. The County shall retain 40% of the 495 
Exhibit 4: Clean Proposed DA 4th Amended
123
security for a period of 12 months from the date of completion of the 496 
improvements. 497 
4.16 Other Service Providers. Prior to the issuance of Building Permits, the Director 498 
shall secure input regarding the Project from all other affected agencies and 499 
service providers, including but not necessarily limited to the County Health 500 
Department and Rocky Mountain Power. 501 
 502 
Article 5 503 
VESTED RIGHTS 504 
5.1 Vested Rights/Approved Use, Density, and Configuration. Subject to the terms, 505 
conditions and requirements of this Development Agreement, Developer is 506 
hereby vested with respect to the Olympic Park SPA as to the uses, densities, 507 
design guidelines and methods, development standards, the Final Site Plans 508 
and other approval processes, as reflected in the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book 509 
of Exhibits and all other provisions of this Development Agreement and 510 
amendments hereto. Subject to the conditions and requirements of this 511 
Development Agreement, Developer shall have the vested right to construct the 512 
Project in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Development 513 
Agreement and amendments hereto. 514 
5.2 Reserved Legislative Powers/Future Changes of Laws and Plans/Compelling 515 
Countervailing Public Interest. Nothing in this Development Agreement shall limit 516 
the future exercise of the police power of  the County in enacting zoning, 517 
subdivision, development, growth management, platting, environmental, open 518 
space, transportation and other master plans, policies, ordinances and 519 
regulations after the date of the Development Agreement. Notwithstanding the 520 
retained power of the County to enact such legislation under the police power, 521 
such legislation shall only be applied to modify the vested rights described in 522 
Article 5.1, as well as other provisions of this Development Agreement, based 523 
upon policies, facts and circumstances meeting the compelling, countervailing 524 
public interest exception to the vested rights doctrine in the State of Utah. 525 
(Western Land Equities Inc v. City of Logan, 617 P. 2d 388 (Utah 1980), U.C.A. 526 
17-27a-508, or other successor case and statutory law). Any such proposed 527 
change affecting the vested rights of Developer and other provisions of this 528 
Development Agreement shall be of general application to all development 529 
activity in the Snyderville Basin; and, unless the County declares an emergency, 530 
Developer shall be entitled to prior written notice and an opportunity to be heard 531 
with respect to the proposed change and its applicability to the Olympic Park 532 
under the compelling, countervailing public policy exception to the vested rights 533 
doctrine. In the event that the County does not give prior written notice, 534 
Developer shall retain the' right to be heard before an open meeting of the 535 
Exhibit 4: Clean Proposed DA 4th Amended
124
County Council in the event Developer alleges that its rights under this 536 
Development Agreement have been adversely affected.  537 
5.3 Normal Operating Capacity / Special Event Permits. County acknowledges and 538 
agrees that there is existing operating capacity within the Olympic Park to 539 
accommodate up to 2,000 people at any one point and therefore the facility is 540 
recognized for having that approved normal operating capacity. 541 
5.3.1 Accordingly, the County Council in its legislative capacity hereby waives 542 
the requirement under the Code that Developer apply for and obtain a 543 
special event permit for events and activities it is hosting within the 544 
Olympic Park for capacities of 2,000 people and less. Developer shall use 545 
every reasonable effort to encourage trip reduction including: carpool, 546 
transit, HOV, and non-motorized access. 547 
5.3.2 Developer shall ensure that at least one first aid station staffed and 548 
equipped with the minimum equipment and staffing level of at least two 549 
(2) state-licensed or certified medical providers, such as an emergency 550 
medical technician, paramedic, nurse, physician's assistant or medical 551 
doctor are present to staff each first aid station over the duration of the 552 
event. 553 
5.3.2.1 The first aid station(s) shall be clearly marked, identifiable and 554 
strategically located to provide expedient medical care for those 555 
attending or participating in the events at the Olympic Park. 556 
5.3.2.2 The first aid station(s) shall be easily accessible by emergency 557 
vehicles. The Developer shall provide the Park City Fire District 558 
(PCFD) with a map of the gathering site which includes the 559 
locations of first aid station(s), emergency vehicle ingress and 560 
egress routes, landing zones (if applicable) and rendezvous 561 
locations. 562 
5.3.2.3 Developer shall ensure that the staff person in charge of the first 563 
aid station(s) keeps accurate records of patients and treatment, 564 
and that the health officer is notified of all cases involving 565 
serious injury or communicable disease in accordance with 566 
R386-702 (Communicable Disease Rule) and R3 86-703 (Injury 567 
Reporting Rule). 568 
5.3.3 Temporary structures and/or facilities, such as tents, food vendor carts, 569 
etc., that are part of any such activities, shall be required to apply for and 570 
receive standard use permits as required by the County and the Park City 571 
Fire Special Service District.  572 
5.3.4 At the discretion of the County's Community Development Director, should 573 
the Olympic Park show repeated failures to satisfy local regulatory 574 
Exhibit 4: Clean Proposed DA 4th Amended
125
agencies (such as Health and Fire District), then the Community 575 
Development Director shall have the ability to require traditional special 576 
event permits of the Developer up until regular compliance has been met 577 
for any events under 2,000 people. 578 
5.3.5 Expected crowds greater than 2,000 people for any given event (i.e., an 579 
Olympic event) must comply with County regulations regarding the 580 
application for and the obtaining of a Special Event Permit for such event. 581 
5.4 Towers and Recreational Structures. Non-building structures at the Olympic Park 582 
SPA that are in excess of thirty-two (32) feet such as existing chairlift towers, 583 
adventure course towers and recreational towers and non-building structures of 584 
a similar type and nature shall be deemed support infrastructure and shall be 585 
deemed a conforming use. The Developer shall follow the permitting process as 586 
outlined in Exhibit C to obtain any appropriate permit from the County for future 587 
non-building structures. 588 
5.5 Interconnection. Developer supports and shall work in good faith to coordinate 589 
with the Master Developer of Canyons Resort and other parties involved, to 590 
make a physical transportation interconnect between Canyons Resort, Olympic 591 
Park, and Kimball Junction. Such an interconnect shall be reviewed through the 592 
Low Impact Permit approval process. 593 
Article 6 594 
FEES AND MITIGATIONS 595 
 596 
6.1 SPA Rezone Application. Development Agreement Application. Development 597 
Review. Engineering and Related Fees. Pursuant to the provisions of Resolution 598 
2010-13, Developer agrees to pay the sum of prior to final approval of the 599 
Development Agreement by the County Council. Except as expressly provided 600 
below in this Article 6, Developer shall receive no further credits or adjustments 601 
toward any other development review, platting, site planning, or similar standard 602 
engineering review fees or other fees generally applicable to development 603 
application or building permit review and approval. The County may charge such 604 
standard planning and engineering review fees, standard building permit review 605 
fees, and other fees as are generally applicable at the time of application, 606 
pursuant to the provisions of Resolution 2010-13, as amended, or other 607 
applicable statutes, ordinances, resolutions, or administrative guidelines. County 608 
acknowledges and agrees that pursuant to the terms of the Exchange 609 
Agreement between County and Developer as more particularly described in 610 
Article 2.2 above, Developer is entitled to a credit against the above described 611 
development fees in the amount of Thirty-five Thousand Dollars ($35,000.00). 612 
Impact Fees: The Olympic Park SPA shall be subject to all impact fees which are 613 
currently imposed and are in effect as of the date of this Development Agreement. The 614 
fees shall be payable in accordance with the payment requirements of the particular 615 
Exhibit 4: Clean Proposed DA 4th Amended
126
impact fee ordinance and implementing resolution. Notwithstanding the agreement of 616 
Developer to subject the Olympic Park SPA to impact fees under the above-stated 617 
conditions, Developer does not waive Developer' s rights under any applicable law to 618 
challenge the reasonableness of the amount of the fees within thirty (30) days following 619 
imposition of the fees on the Olympic Park SPA  620 
6.2 Considerations for Community Benefits. The County acknowledges that 621 
Developer is a not-for-profit entity and will be supplying a substantial benefit to 622 
the community. In addition, it is a central purpose of the Project to preserve the 623 
long term viability of the Olympic Park by obtaining additional funding and to 624 
incent private development partners to avoid depleting the endowment 625 
established to fund the operation of the Olympic Park. Accordingly, the County 626 
agrees to reasonably consider, to the extent allowed by applicable law, the 627 
following avenues of potential assistance: 628 
6.3.1 Economic Development Tools such as Tax Increment Financing, , 629 
public infrastructure districts, special service district designations, creation 630 
of political subdivision of the State, or similar land designations that would 631 
assist the Utah Athletic Foundation in its long-term sustainability efforts. 632 
6.3.2 County merit-based grant allocations, such as or similar to Transient 633 
Room Tax (TRT) or resort communities sales and use tax, to assist the 634 
Utah Athletic Foundation in efforts to further enhance the outlined 635 
community benefits. 636 
6.4 Future Olympic Games In the event that, during the term of this Development 637 
Agreement, the State of Utah is chosen to host another Olympic Games and, as 638 
a result of such Olympic Games, the Olympic Park is identified as an official 639 
competition venue, the County will look to assist these efforts by: 640 
6.4.1 Allowing transportation and security staging areas in designated areas of 641 
property located below the Olympic Park and in the surrounding Kimball 642 
Junction area, as conceptually outlined in the Olympic Park SPA Plan 643 
Book of Exhibits as Exhibit I, subject to any terms and conditions deemed 644 
necessary by the County and the Snyderville Basin Special Recreation 645 
District together with any releases or waivers required by that certain 646 
Declaration and Notice of Use Restrictions, dated November 20, 2008, to 647 
ensure that any area of disturbance is immediately and effectively  648 
restored upon termination of the Olympic Games. 649 
6.4.2 Provide planning support and assistance to any bid / organizing committee 650 
efforts. 651 
6.4.3 Fairly negotiate any community services agreements and support staging 652 
a future effort. 653 
Exhibit 4: Clean Proposed DA 4th Amended
127
6.4.4 Designate the Utah Olympic Park as a “Major Sporting Event Venu” 654 
pursuant to SB333, 2025 General Legislative Session. 655 
6.5 Transportation Special Service District. When public bus service to the Olympic 656 
Park is made available by the County, Developer agrees to be annexed into the 657 
Kimball Area Transportation Special Service District and pay such assessments, 658 
on an equal basis, as are required of other property owners therein. 659 
6.6 Traffic Capacity. Developer's traffic report, Exhibit K. 1, acknowledged limitations 660 
in traffic capacity with the accessing area. Limitations for Phase I of the project, 661 
as identified in the traffic report, have been corrected with the cooperative efforts 662 
of Summit County and UDOT by implementing dual lefts at Olympic Park and 663 
SR-224. The Developer acknowledges the need for additional access capacity 664 
prior to construction of Phase 2 as identified in Exhibit K.1. The Snyderville Basin 665 
Transportation Master Plan identifies means to provide the required capacity. 666 
These concepts or others as amended in the Transportation Master Plan will 667 
need to be implemented in advance of Phase 2 construction. 668 
 669 
 670 
 671 
Article 7  672 
PUBLIC BENEFITS 673 
7.1 Contribution of Public Benefits. As a consideration for the County's entry into the 674 
Development Agreement, Developer shall provide the following Public Benefits 675 
beyond those public impacts created by the Project: 676 
7.1.1 UAF Property Open Space Preservation. Developer shall preserve the 677 
natural open space areas owned by the Developer and shown on the 678 
Master Conceptual Development Plan in the same general condition as 679 
those areas are presently found. Any disturbance of those areas for 680 
construction staging or the installation of utility lines shall be restored 681 
within one (1) year of completion of said construction or installation. 682 
7.1.2 Trails. Developer shall contribute to community trails and parks including 683 
working with the Snyderville Basin Special Recreation District to identify 684 
possible trail linkages and trail heads. 685 
7.1.3 Recreational Programs. Provide affordable, subsidized long term 686 
community recreation programs (especially for Summit County's youth). 687 
7.1.4 Olympic Winter Sport. Provide unique public program offerings that 688 
highlight our region's support and interest in Olympic Winter Sports. 689 
Exhibit 4: Clean Proposed DA 4th Amended
128
7.1.5 Olympic Legacy Foundation. Provide local organizational leadership 690 
towards initiatives of Utah's Olympic Legacy Foundation that ties in 691 
statewide interests to Summit County. 692 
7.1.6 Education Outreach. The nature of the Utah Athletic Foundation (d.b.a. 693 
"Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation") is to promote an ongoing legacy 694 
of the Olympic movement's efforts, to include efforts to promote sport 695 
and physical activity for all (especially for the community's youth) and 696 
to promote educational curriculum and community partner programs 697 
that have similar interests. It is the intent of the leadership of the Utah 698 
Athletic Foundation to utilize the Olympic Park for numerous and 699 
diverse community meetings and educational components that will 700 
serve a broad regional and statewide interest. 701 
 702 
Article 8 703 
SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS 704 
8.1 Binding Effect. This Development Agreement shall be binding on the successors 705 
and assigns of Developer in the ownership or development of any portion of the 706 
Olympic Park SPA. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a purchaser of the Project or 707 
any portion thereof shall be responsible for performance of Developer's 708 
obligations hereunder as to the portion of the Project so transferred in 709 
accordance with the provisions of Article 8.2 herein. 710 
8.2 Transfer of the Project. Developer shall be entitled to transfer any portion of the 711 
Project subject to the terms of the Development Agreement and any 712 
amendments upon written notice to the County. In the event of any such 713 
complete transfer of all or a portion of Developer's interests in the Project, the 714 
transferee shall be deemed to be Developer for all purposes under this 715 
Development Agreement with respect to that portion of the Project transferred. 716 
Developer's obligation to notify the County shall terminate with respect to 717 
portions of the Project on which all of the improvements required by this 718 
Development Agreement have been substantially completed as evidenced by a 719 
certificate of occupancy granted by the County. 720 
8.3 Release of Developer. In the event of a transfer of all or a portion of the Project, 721 
Developer shall obtain an assumption by the transferee of Developer's 722 
obligations under this Development Agreement, and, in such event, the 723 
transferee shall be fully substituted as Developer under the Development 724 
Agreement, and Developer shall be released from any further obligations with 725 
respect to this Development Agreement as to the parcel so transferred. 726 
8.4 Obligations and Rights of Mortgage Lenders. The holder of any mortgage, deed 727 
of trust, or other security arrangement with respect to the Project, or any portion 728 
Exhibit 4: Clean Proposed DA 4th Amended
129
thereof, shall not be obligated under this Development Agreement to construct or 729 
complete improvements or to guarantee such construction or completion, but 730 
shall otherwise be bound by all of the terms and conditions of this Development 731 
Agreement and any amendments which pertain to the Project or such portion 732 
thereof in which it holds an interest. Any such holder who comes into possession 733 
of the Project, or any portion thereof, pursuant to a foreclosure of a mortgage or 734 
a deed of trust, or deed in lieu of such foreclosure shall take the Project, or such 735 
portion thereof, subject to any pro rata claims for payments or charges against 736 
the Project, or such portion thereof, deed restrictions, or other obligations which 737 
accrue prior to the time such holder comes into possession. Nothing in this 738 
Development Agreement shall be deemed or• construed to permit or authorize 739 
any such holder to devote the Project, or any portion thereof, to any uses, or to 740 
construct any improvements thereon, other than those uses and improvements 741 
provided for or authorized by the Development Agreement and any 742 
amendments, and, as would be the case in any assignment, the purchaser of the 743 
Project from the holder shall be subject to all of the terms and conditions of the 744 
Development Agreement, including the obligation to complete all required 745 
amenities and improvements and to comply with all parking provisions. 746 
  747 
Exhibit 4: Clean Proposed DA 4th Amended
130
 748 
Article 9 749 
DEFAULT, TERMINATION AND ARBITRATION 750 
9.1 Default. 751 
9.1.1 Events of Default. Default under this Development Agreement occurs 752 
upon the happening of one or more of the following events or conditions: 753 
9.1.1.1 A warranty, representation or statement made or furnished by 754 
Developer to the County in this Development Agreement, including 755 
any attachments hereto, is materially false or proves to have been 756 
materially false in any material respect when it was made. 757 
9.1.1.2 A finding and determination made by the Summit County Manager 758 
by substantial evidence that the Developer has not complied in 759 
good faith with one or more of the material terms or conditions of 760 
this Development Agreement. 761 
9.1.1.3 Any other event, condition, act or omission by Developer, which 762 
materially interferes with the intent and objective of this 763 
Development Agreement, after the expiration of all notice and cure 764 
periods. 765 
9.1.2 Notice and Cure of Default. Within ten (10) days after the occurrence of 766 
default, the County shall give Developer (the "defaulting party'.') written 767 
notice specifying the nature of the alleged default and, when appropriate, 768 
the manner in which the default must be satisfactorily cured. Developer 769 
shall have sixty (60) days after receipt of written notice to cure the default. 770 
After proper notice and expiration of the sixty (60) day cure period without 771 
cure, the County may terminate or amend this Development Agreement 772 
by giving written notice in accordance with the procedure adopted by the 773 
County. Failure or delay in giving notice of default shall not constitute a 774 
waiver of any default, nor shall it change the time of default. 775 
Notwithstanding the sixty (60) day cure period provided above, in the 776 
event more than thirty (30) days is reasonably required to cure a default 777 
and Developer, within the sixty (60) day cure period, commences actions 778 
reasonably designed to cure the default, then the cure period shall be 779 
extended for such additional period as Developer is prosecuting those 780 
actions diligently to completion. 781 
9.1.3 Non-Waiver.  Neither Party waives any claim of defect in performance of 782 
this Development Agreement by the other Party. 783 
Exhibit 4: Clean Proposed DA 4th Amended
131
9.1.4 Other Remedies. All other remedies at law or in equity which are 784 
consistent with the provisions of this Development Agreement are 785 
available to the Parties to pursue in the event there is a breach. 786 
9.2 Termination 787 
9.2.1 Termination Upon Repudiation. An express repudiation, refusal or 788 
renunciation of this Development Agreement, if the same is in writing and 789 
signed by the Developer, shall be sufficient to terminate this Development 790 
Agreement and a public hearing on the matter shall not be required. 791 
9.2.2 Termination Upon Completion of Development. This Development 792 
Agreement shall terminate when the Project has been fully developed and 793 
Developer's and the County's obligations in connection therewith are 794 
satisfied, or at the expiration of the term of this Development Agreement 795 
as set forth in Article 10.5. The County shall record a notice that this 796 
Development Agreement has been fully performed and therefore has 797 
been terminated. 798 
9.2.3 Effect of Termination on Developer Obligations. Termination of the 799 
Development Agreement as to any Developer of the Project or any portion 800 
thereof shall not affect any such Developer's obligations under this 801 
Agreement or obligations to comply with the terms and conditions of any 802 
applicable zoning, or subdivision plat, site plan, Building Permit, or other 803 
land use entitlements approved with respect to the Project, nor shall it 804 
affect any other covenants or any other development requirements 805 
specified or created pursuant to the Development Agreement. Termination 806 
of the Development Agreement shall not affect or invalidate in any manner 807 
Developer's obligations of mutual release under Article 10.8 or 808 
indemnification and hold harmless under Article 10.16. 809 
9.2.4 Effect of Termination on the County Obligations. Upon any termination of 810 
the Development Agreement, the entitlements (including density), 811 
conditions of development, limitations on fees, and all other terms and 812 
conditions of the Development Agreement and any amendments shall no 813 
longer be vested by reason of the Development Agreement with respect 814 
to any portion of the Project then undeveloped and not then covered by a 815 
Building Permit application. Those undeveloped portions of the Project 816 
may be subject to then existing planning and zoning law. Upon such a 817 
termination, the County shall no longer be prohibited by the Development 818 
Agreement from making any changes or modifications to such 819 
entitlements, conditions, or fees applicable to such undeveloped portions 820 
of the Project. Further, with respect to the improved portions of the 821 
Project, the County shall remain obligated to recognize and apply the 822 
development standards and configuration contained in the Olympic Park 823 
SPA Plan Book of Exhibits. 824 
Exhibit 4: Clean Proposed DA 4th Amended
132
9.2.5 Reversion to Regulations for Unimproved Portions of the Project. Should 825 
the County terminate the Development Agreement under the provisions 826 
hereof, Developer's remaining unimproved portions of the Project will 827 
thereafter comply with and be governed by the applicable County 828 
Development Code and General Plan then in existence, as well as with all 829 
other provisions of Utah State law. 830 
Article 10 831 
GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS 832 
10.1 No Addition to Project. No property may be added to the Project or to the 833 
Olympic Park SPA for purposes of the Development Agreement, except by 834 
written amendment. This Development Agreement shall not affect any land other 835 
than the Project. 836 
10.2 Development Agreement to run with the Land. The Development Agreement and 837 
any amendments shall be recorded against the Olympic Park. The agreements 838 
contained herein shall be deemed to run with the land and shall be binding on 839 
and shall inure to the benefit of all successors in ownership of the Project. 840 
10.3 Construction of Development Agreement. The Development Agreement shall be 841 
construed so as to effectuate the public purpose of resolving disputes, 842 
implementing long-range planning objectives, obtaining public benefits, and 843 
protecting any compelling, countervailing public interest, while providing 844 
assurances of continued vested development rights under the Development 845 
Agreement. 846 
10.4 Laws of General Applicability. Where the Development Agreement refers to laws 847 
of general applicability to the Olympic Park SPA and other properties, that 848 
language shall be deemed to refer to laws, which apply to, all other developed 849 
and subdivided properties within the Snyderville Basin of Summit County. 850 
10.5 Duration. The term of this Development Agreement shall commence on, and the 851 
effective date of this Development Agreement shall be, the effective date of the 852 
Ordinance approving this Development Agreement. The initial term shall be for a 853 
ten (10) year period. Prior to the expiration of any ten (10) year term, the 854 
Developer may request in writing an additional ten (I 0) year extension of this 855 
Development Agreement from the County Council. The written request may be 856 
made no more than two (2) times for a total duration of thirty (30) years if both 857 
extensions are granted. The County Council shall review the extension 858 
request(s) to ensure that the Developer is in compliance with this Development 859 
Agreement and that the request does not jeopardize the health, safety and 860 
welfare of the citizens of Summit County. Absent any negative determination 861 
from the County Council in the course of the above described review, the County 862 
Council shall approve the extension request. At the expiration of this 863 
Development Agreement, or the renewal period, the Olympic Park shall become 864 
Exhibit 4: Clean Proposed DA 4th Amended
133
subject to the then existing Development Code and General Plan and all 865 
development rights vested under this Development Agreement shall expire. 866 
10.5.1 Permitted Extension Requests 867 
 868 
 Entry Number Summary of 
Amendment 
Adopted 
Original 
Development 
Agreement 
00989488 
(Ordinance 820) 
N/A November 
6, 2013 
First 
Amendment 
01097502 Amendments to 
Exhibit H and 
Engineering 
Standards 
July 16, 
2018 
Second 
Amendment 
01117394 Amendments to 
Exhibit H and 
restricted 
affordable 
housing 
August 
30, 2019 
Third 
Amendment 
01216610 Extends original 
DA term for an 
additional ten 
years 
August 3, 
2023 
    
    
 869 
10.6 Amendments. 870 
10.6.1 Substantial Amendments. Any amendment to the Development 871 
Agreement that alters or modifies the Terms of the Development 872 
Agreement or permitted uses, adds or removes of any lands, increases 873 
density or intensity of use, deletes any major public amenity described 874 
herein, or provisions for reservation and dedication of land, including 875 
open space dedications, shall be deemed a "Substantial Amendment" 876 
and shall require a noticed public hearing and recommendation by the 877 
Planning Commission and a noticed public hearing and decision by the 878 
County Council pursuant to the Equal Dignities Rule prior to the 879 
execution of such an amendment. 880 
10.6.2 Administrative Amendments. Unless otherwise provided by law, all 881 
amendments to the Development Agreement that are not Substantial 882 
Amendments shall be Administrative Amendments and shall not require 883 
a public hearing or recommendation of the Planning Commission prior 884 
to the execution by the Parties of such an amendment. The Director is 885 
Exhibit 4: Clean Proposed DA 4th Amended
134
hereby empowered to make all final Administrative Amendment 886 
decisions. 887 
10.6.3 Effect of Amendments. Any amendment to the Development Agreement 888 
shall be operative only as to those specific portions of this Development 889 
Agreement expressly subject to the amendment, with all other terms 890 
and conditions remaining in full force and effect without interruption. 891 
10.7 Conflicts. 892 
10.7.1 To the extent there is any ambiguity in or conflict with the provisions of 893 
the Development Agreement and the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of 894 
Exhibits (including, without limitation, the Final Site Plans, Lighting 895 
Guidelines, Landscaping Plan, and Architectural Design Guidelines 896 
therein), the more specific and/or more restrictive provision or language 897 
shall take precedence over more general provisions or language. 898 
10.7.2 The County has reviewed the Code and General Plan and has 899 
determined that Developer has substantially complied with the 900 
provisions thereof and hereby finds that the Olympic Park SPA is 901 
consistent with the purpose and intent of the relevant provisions of the 902 
Snyderville Basin Development Code and General Plan. The Parties 903 
further agree that the omission of a limitation or restriction herein shall 904 
not relieve Developer of the necessity of complying with all applicable 905 
County Ordinances and Resolutions not in conflict with the provisions of 906 
this Development Agreement, along with all applicable state and federal 907 
laws. 908 
10.8 Mutual Releases. At the time of, and subject to, (i) the expiration of any 909 
applicable appeal period with respect to the approval of this Development 910 
Agreement without an appeal having been filed or (ii) the final determination of 911 
any court upholding this Development Agreement, whichever occurs later, and 912 
excepting the Parties' respective rights and obligations under this Development 913 
Agreement, Developer, on behalf of itself and Developer's partners, officers, 914 
directors, employees, agents, attorneys and consultants, hereby releases the 915 
County and the County's council members, officials, employees, agents, 916 
attorneys and consultants, and the County, on behalf of itself and the County's 917 
council members, officials, employees, agents, attorneys and consultants, herby 918 
releases Developer and Developer's partners, officers, directors, employees, 919 
agents, attorneys and consultants, from and against any and all claims, 920 
demands, liabilities, costs, expenses of whatever nature, whether known or 921 
unknown, and whether liquidated or contingent, arising on or before the date of 922 
this Development Agreement in connection with the application, processing or 923 
approval of the Olympic Park SPA, Olympic Park SPA Plan, and the 924 
Development Agreement and amendments, to include any claims for vested 925 
development rights by any Developer on property which is within the Olympic 926 
Park SPA. 927 
Exhibit 4: Clean Proposed DA 4th Amended
135
10.9 State and Federal Law. The Parties agree, intend and understand that the 928 
obligations imposed by the Development Agreement are only such as are 929 
consistent with state and federal law. The Parties further agree that if any 930 
provision of the Development Agreement becomes, in its performance, 931 
inconsistent with state or federal law or is declared invalid, the Development 932 
Agreement shall be deemed amended to the extent necessary to make it 933 
consistent with state or federal law, as the case may be, and the balance of the 934 
Development Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. 935 
10.10 Enforcement. The Parties to this Development Agreement recognize that the 936 
County has the right to enforce it rules, policies, regulations, and ordinances, 937 
subject to the terms of this Development Agreement, and may, as its option, 938 
seek an injunction to compel such compliance. In the event that Developer or 939 
any user of the subject property violates the rules, policies, regulations or 940 
ordinances of the County or violates the terms of the Development Agreement as 941 
amended, the County may, without electing to seek an injunction and after thirty 942 
(30) days written notice to correct the violation (or such longer period as may be 943 
established in the discretion of the County Council or a court of competent 944 
jurisdiction if Developer has used its reasonable best efforts to cure such 945 
violation within such thirty (30) days and is continuing to use its reasonable best 946 
efforts to cure such violation), take such actions as shall be deemed appropriate 947 
under law until such conditions have been honored by Developer. The Parties 948 
further recognize that Developer has the right to enforce the provisions of the 949 
Development Agreement by seeking an injunction to compel compliance to the 950 
extent not inconsistent with the County's reserved legislative and police powers, 951 
as well as the County's discretionary administrative decision-making functions 952 
provided for herein. Both Parties shall be free from any liability arising out of the 953 
exercise of its rights under this paragraph; provided, however, that any Party 954 
may be liable to the other for the exercise of any rights in violation of Rule 11 of 955 
the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure, Rule 11 of the Federal Rules of Civil 956 
Procedure and/or Utah Code Annotated Section 78-27-56, as each may be 957 
amended. 958 
10.11 No Waiver. Failure of a Party hereto to exercise any right hereunder shall not be 959 
deemed a waiver of any such right and shall not affect the right of such Party to 960 
exercise at some future time said right or any other right it may have hereunder. 961 
Unless the Development Agreement is amended by vote of the County Council 962 
taken with the same formality as the vote approving this Development 963 
Agreement, no officer, official or agent of the County has the power to amend, 964 
modify or alter this Development Agreement or waive any of its conditions as to 965 
bind the County by making any promise or representation not contained herein. 966 
10.12 Entire Agreement. This Development Agreement constitutes the entire 967 
agreement between the Parties with respect to the issues addressed herein and 968 
supersedes all prior agreements, whether oral or written, covering the same 969 
subject matter. The Development Agreement may not be modified or amended 970 
Exhibit 4: Clean Proposed DA 4th Amended
136
except in writing mutually agreed to and accepted by both Parties to the 971 
Development Agreement and recorded. 972 
10.13 Notices. Any notice, confirmation or other communication hereunder (each, a 973 
"Notice") shall be given in writing by certified mail, postage prepaid, or personally 974 
or by nationally-recognized overnight courier, at the following addresses, or by 975 
facsimile to the following facsimile numbers provided the transmitting facsimile 976 
machine shall automatically prepare a confirmation or successful facsimile 977 
transmission: 978 
 979 
To the County: 980 
 981 
The County Council  982 
Summit County Courthouse 983 
P.O Box 128 984 
Coalville, Utah 84017 985 
Facsimile: (435) 336-3030 986 
 987 
 988 
Summit County Director of Community Development 989 
P.O Box 128 990 
Coalville, Utah 84017  991 
 992 
With a copy to: 993 
David L. Thomas 994 
Chief Civil Deputy Summit County Attorney 995 
P.O. Box 128 996 
Coalville, Utah 84017 997 
Facsimile: (435) 336-3287  998 
 999 
To Developer: 1000 
Colin Hilton  1001 
President / CEO 1002 
Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation  1003 
PO Box 980337 1004 
3419 Olympic Parkway  1005 
Park City, Utah 84098  1006 
Facsimile: (435) 658-4250 1007 
 1008 
With a copy to: 1009 
 1010 
Allison BehjaniRay Quinney & Nebeker P.C. 1011 
36 South State Street, Suite 1400 1012 
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111  1013 
Facsimile: (801) 532-7543 1014 
Exhibit 4: Clean Proposed DA 4th Amended
137
 1015 
 1016 
Or to such other addresses, such other facsimile numbers, or the attention of 1017 
such other person as either Party or their successors may designate by written 1018 
notice. Notice shall be deemed given upon actual receipt, if personally delivered, 1019 
when transmitted if delivered by facsimile, one (1) business day following deposit 1020 
with a reputable overnight courier that provides a receipt, or on the third (3rd) 1021 
day following deposit in the United States mail in the manner described above. 1022 
 1023 
 1024 
10.14  Applicable Law. This Development Agreement is entered into under and 1025 
pursuant to, and is to be construed and enforceable in accordance with, the laws 1026 
of the State of Utah. 1027 
10.15 Execution of Development Agreement. This Development Agreement and any 1028 
amendments may be executed in multiple counterparts or originals or by 1029 
facsimile copies of executed originals; provided, however, if executed and 1030 
evidence of execution is made by facsimile copy, then an original shall be 1031 
provided to the other Party within seven (7) days of receipt of said facsimile 1032 
copy. 1033 
10.16 Indemnification and Hold Harmless. Developer agrees to and shall indemnify 1034 
and hold County, its officers, agents, employees, consultants, attorneys, special 1035 
counsel and representatives harmless from liability: (1) for damages, just 1036 
compensation, restitution, judicial or equitable relief arising out of claims for 1037 
personal injury, including death, and claims for property damage which may arise 1038 
from the direct or indirect operations of Developer or its contractors, 1039 
subcontractors, agents, employees or other persons acting on their behalf; and 1040 
(2) from any claim of damages, just compensation, restitution, judicial or 1041 
equitable relief due by reason of the terms of or effect arising from the 1042 
Development Agreement. Developer agrees to pay all costs for the defense of 1043 
the County and its officers, agents, employees, consultants, attorneys, special 1044 
counsel and representatives regarding any action for damages, just 1045 
compensation, restitutions, judicial or equitable relief caused or alleged to have 1046 
been caused by reason of Developer's actions in connection with the Olympic 1047 
Park SPA or any claims arising out of the Development Agreement. This hold 1048 
harmless agreement applies to all claims for damages, just compensation, 1049 
restitution, judicial or equitable relief suffered or alleged to have been suffered by 1050 
reason of the events referred to in this paragraph or due by reason of the terms 1051 
of, or effects arising from the Development Agreement regardless of whether or 1052 
not the County prepared, supplied or approved the Development Agreement, 1053 
plans or specifications, or both, for the Project. Developer further agrees to 1054 
indemnify, hold harmless, and pay all costs for the defense of the County, 1055 
including fees and costs for special counsel to be selected by the County, 1056 
regarding any action by a third party challenging the validity of the Development 1057 
Agreement or asserting that damages, just compensation, restitution, judicial or 1058 
Exhibit 4: Clean Proposed DA 4th Amended
138
equitable relief is due by reason of the terms of, or effects arising from the 1059 
Development Agreement. County may make all reasonable decisions with 1060 
respect to its representation in any legal proceeding. 1061 
10.16.1 Exceptions to Hold Harmless. The agreements of Developer in Article 1062 
10.16 shall not be applicable to (i) any claim arising by reason of the 1063 
negligence or intentional actions of the County, or (ii) any claim reserved 1064 
by Developer under the terms of this Development Agreement for just 1065 
compensation. 1066 
10.16.2 Hold Harmless Procedures. The County shall give written notice of any 1067 
claim, demand, action or proceeding which is the subject of Developer's 1068 
hold harmless agreement as soon as practicable but not later than ten 1069 
(10) business days after the assertion or commencement of the claim, 1070 
demand, action or proceeding. In the event any such notice is given, the 1071 
County shall be entitled to participate in the defense of such claim. Each 1072 
Party agrees to cooperate with the other in the defense of any claim and 1073 
to minimize duplicative costs and expenses. 1074 
10.17 Relationship of Parties. The contractual relationship between the County and 1075 
Developer arising out of the Development Agreement is one of independent 1076 
contractor and not agency. It is specifically understood by the Parties that: (a) the 1077 
Olympic Park SPA Plan is a private development; (b) County has no interest in, 1078 
responsibilities for, or duty to third parties concerning any improvements to the 1079 
Olympic Park unless the County accepts the improvements pursuant to the 1080 
provisions of this Development Agreement or in connection with subdivision plat, 1081 
site plan, deed, or map approval; and (c) Developer shall have the full power and 1082 
exclusive control of the Project subject to the obligations of Developer set forth in 1083 
the Development Agreement. 1084 
10.18 No Third Party Beneficiaries. This Development Agreement is not intended to 1085 
affect or create any rights or obligations on the part of third parties. 1086 
10.19 Computation of Time. In computing any period of time pursuant to the 1087 
Development Agreement, the day of the act, event or default from which the 1088 
designated period of time begins to run shall be included, unless it is a Saturday, 1089 
Sunday, or legal holiday, in which event the period shall begin to run on the next 1090 
day which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday. 1091 
10.20 Titles and Captions. All section titles or captions contained in the Development 1092 
Agreement are for convenience only and shall not be deemed part of the context 1093 
nor affect the interpretation hereof. 1094 
10.21 Savings Clause. If any provision of the Development Agreement, or the 1095 
application of such provision to any person or circumstance, shall be held invalid, 1096 
the remainder of the Development Agreement, or the application of such 1097 
Exhibit 4: Clean Proposed DA 4th Amended
139
provision to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is held 1098 
invalid, shall not be affected thereby. 1099 
10.22 Force Majeure. Any default or inability to cure a default caused by strikes, 1100 
lockouts, labor disputes, acts of God, inability to obtain labor or materials or 1101 
reasonable substitutes therefore, enemy or hostile governmental action, civil 1102 
commotion, fire or other casualty, or other similar causes beyond the reasonable 1103 
control of the Party obligated to perform, shall excuse the performance by such 1104 
Party for a period equal to the period during which any such event prevented, 1105 
delayed or stopped any required performance or effort to cure a default. 1106 
10.23 Severability. If any provision of the Development Agreement, or the application of 1107 
such provision to any person or circumstance, is held invalid, void, or 1108 
unenforceable, but the remainder of this Development Agreement can be 1109 
enforced without failure of material consideration to any Party, then the 1110 
remainder of the Development Agreement shall not be affected thereby and it 1111 
shall remain in full force and effect, unless amended or modified by mutual 1112 
consent of the Parties. If any material provision of the Development Agreement 1113 
is held invalid, void, or unenforceable or if consideration is removed or 1114 
destroyed, the Developer or the County shall have the right in their sole and 1115 
absolute discretion to terminate the Development Agreement by providing written 1116 
notice of such termination to the other Party. 1117 
10.24 Project is a Private Undertaking. It is agreed among the Parties that the Project 1118 
is a private development and that the County has no interest therein except as 1119 
authorized in the exercise of its governmental functions. The Project is not a joint 1120 
venture, and there is no such relationship involving the County. Nothing in the 1121 
Development Agreement shall preclude the Developer and any participating 1122 
landowner from forming any form of investment entity for the purpose of 1123 
completing any portion of the Project. 1124 
  1125 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Development Agreement has been executed by Summit 1126 
County, acting by and through the County Council of Summit County, State of Utah, 1127 
pursuant to Ordinance No. ____, authorizing such execution, and by a duly authorized 1128 
representative of Developer, as of the above stated date. 1129 
 1130 
COUNTY COUNCIL OF  1131 
SUMMIT COUNTY , STATE OF UTAH 1132 
 1133 
By:___________________________________ 1134 
                 Tanja Hansen, Chair 1135 
Exhibit 4: Clean Proposed DA 4th Amended
140
 1136 
 1137 
Acknowledgement 1138 
1139 
____________________________ 1140 
Summit County Clerk 1141 
 1142 
 1143 
Approved as to Form 1144 
1145 
____________________________ 1146 
Summit County Attorney 1147 
1148 
UTAH ATHLETIC FOUNDATION, a Utah non -profit 1149 
corporation  1150 
 1151 
1152 
By: _____________________________________ 1153 
1154 
STATE OF UTAH ) 1155 
: 1156 
COUNTY OF SUMMIT) 1157 
 1158 
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this __________ day of _______________, 1159 
201___ by ______________________________. 1160 
1161 
Notary Public Residing at: _______________ 1162 
My commission expires: _________________ 1163 
1164 
Exhibit 4: Clean Proposed DA 4th Amended
141
Community Development Department
P.O. Box 128
60 North Main Street
Coalville, Utah 84017
summitcounty.org 
STAFF REPORT
To:   Snyderville Basin Planning Commission   
From:   Jennifer Leslie  
Date of Meeting: August 26, 2025
Date of Report:  August 20, 2025
Type of Item:  Conditional Use Permit - P ublic Hearing, Possible Action
Process:  Administrative Review
File #:   25-067
Proposal 
The applicant proposes to construct a 5,710 sf Major Accessory Building on Parcel PP-87-8. The 
Major Accessory Building will be 26’ in height and will be used exclusively by the owners of the 
property as a garage and storage space. The proposed Major Accessory Building shall be 
constructed in the same location as an existing Major Accessory Building that will be 
demolished. 
Project Description
Project Name:    Wright Accessory Building
Applicant(s):    Rosemary Stum, Lloyd Architecture
Property Owner(s):   Nathan Wright
Location:    4865 N 400 W, Park City
Zone District:     Rural Residential (RR)
Parcel Number and Size:   PP-87-8 (4.80 acres)
Type of Process:   Administrative
Final Land Use Authority:  Snyderville Basin Planning Commission (SBPC)
Vicinity Map
142
2 
 
Background 
Parcel PP-87-8 is a 4.80-acre property in the Old Ranch Road neighborhood accessed from 400 
West, a private road. The property is not within a platted subdivision.  
 
The property is currently developed with a single-family dwelling (SFD) built in 1969. The SFD is 
approximately 4,253 sqft with attached garage space. The property is also developed with 
multiple accessory structures including two Minor Accessory Buildings, one Secondary 
Accessory Building, and one Major Accessory Building that is used as a barn. The barn has its 
own driveway area and has a footprint of approximately 15,800 sf.  
 
The applicant intends to demolish all the existing structures on the property and rebuild a new 
SFD, Minor Accessory, and Major Accessory Building. A Low Impact Permit (LIP) was approved 
by the Community Development Director on July 21, 2025 for the new SFD on a lot outside of a 
platted subdivision. The LIP also approved Private Recreation uses as shown in the site plan, 
which includes an outdoor sport court and swimming pool. 
 
The proposed Major Accessory Building is 5,710 sqft and 26’ high. The building will be used 
exclusively by the owners of the property as a garage and storage space. The proposed Major 
Accessory is positioned in the same location as the existing Major Accessory Building that will 
be demolished. The Code establishes that Major Accessory Buildings are conditional uses in the 
RR zone. 
 
Analysis and Findings 
Chapter 2 - Zone District Requirements 
The subject property is located in the Rural Residential (RR) zone district.  
 
Code Requirement Analysis Finding 
Setbacks 
Front = 30’ 
Side = 12’ 
Rear = 12’ 
Accessory Building  
Front = 150.75’ 
Side = 45’ (north), 314.33’ (south) 
Rear = 12’  
COMPLIES 
Height 
The maximum height allowed is 32’ from 
existing or finished grade, whichever 
results in a greater measurement.  
Proposed Accessory Building 
Height 
26’ 
COMPLIES 
 
Chapter 2 – Lot of Record 
This property complies with the definition of a Lot of Record in the Snyderville Basin 
Development Code. This property is described by a deed that was recorded in the Office of the 
Summit County Recorder (Entry No. 256012) between August 1, 1977 and January 14, 1993, 
and complied with the zoning requirements in effect at the time of its creation. There have 
been no changes to the legal description since the deed was recorded.  
 
143
3 
 
Conditional Use Permit Criteria for Approval 
No conditional use permit shall be approved unless the applicant demonstrates that: 
  
Standard 1: The use is in accordance with the General Plan. 
  
Analysis: Chapter 2 of the Code conforms to the General Plan, as stated in Section 10-2-
16. Chapter 2 lists “Major Accessory Buildings” as conditional uses, therefore, the 
proposal is compatible with the General Plan. Code amendments adopted via Ordinance 
930 on September 8, 2021 updated the criteria for Accessory Buildings. The 
amendments were specifically passed to preserve the natural, scenic, and historic 
qualities of the Snyderville Basin, which is directly supportive of goals within the General 
Plan.   
 
Standard 2: The use conforms to all applicable provisions of this Title, including, but not limited 
to, any applicable provisions of this Section and Chapter 4 of this Title, the General Plan, and 
State and Federal regulations;  
 
Analysis: See table below.  
 
Code Requirement Analysis Finding 
Environmental Criteria 
*Air Quality 
*Water Quality 
*Watershed Protection 
*Erosion Protection 
*Sewage Disposal 
*Wildlife Habitat 
The project will not produce 
emissions that conflict with the 
State’s air quality standards. The 
proposal does not include any 
point-source discharge. The Summit 
County Stormwater Department 
reviewed the proposal and did not 
raise concerns regarding non-point 
discharge or water runoff concerns. 
The proposal is not within 1,500’ 
above or 100’ below any springs 
used for culinary or public water.  
The proposal will utilize a private 
septic system. The proposal will not 
adversely affect critical wildlife 
habitat.  
COMPLIES 
Critical Lands 
*Wetlands 
*Slopes Exceeding 30% 
*Ridgelines 
*Avalanche Zones 
*Geologic Hazards 
The proposal will not encroach into 
any wetlands, slopes exceeding 
30%, ridgelines, avalanche zones, or 
geologic hazard areas.  
COMPLIES 
Open Space This project compli es with the base 
zone density and is therefore 
COMPLIES 
144
4 
 
exempt from open space 
requirements.  
Water and Water Supply 
Prior to preliminary approval by 
the county, a source, or sources, 
of water to the proposed project 
must be identified. The source 
must be consistently available at 
sufficient quantities to supply 
domestic and irrigation needs 
according to state regulations. In 
all cases a well, or wells, of 
sufficient capacity at each 
proposed building location will be 
required prior to building permit 
issuance. 
There is an existing well on the 
property. The Water Right (35-
14492) for the well includes 
sufficient culinary water for a 
residence and accessory unit, plus 
.09 acre feet of outdoor water. The 
Water Right includes sufficient 
water for all of the proposed uses 
on the property, including the pool. 
The property owners have also 
purchased additional water rights 
via a Water Quit Claim Deed 35-
8409 (a41701), 35-8455 (a41701), 
and 35-11528 (a41701). The 
property owners are in the process 
of converting the Deed to an OSE. 
COMPLIES 
Sanitary Sewer 
A line extension agreement must 
be accepted by SBWRD prior to 
development permit approval 
The proposal is not within 300’ of an 
existing SBWRD line. The project will 
be served by a septic system. The 
applicant submitted passing 
percolation test results to the 
Summit County Health Department. 
COMPLIES 
Fire Protection 
Ability to serve a development to 
provide fire protection shall be 
provided, in writing, for all 
developments. 
The Park City Fire District services 
the area. PCFD did not raise 
concerns regarding the proposal.  
COMPLIES 
Loading and Unloading 
Applicant shall demonstrate 
adequate loading and unloading 
space is available within the 
development. 
This proposal is neither commercial 
nor industrial and therefore does 
not require loading and unloading 
space.  
COMPLIES 
Parking 
A minimum of two parking spaces 
are required per single-family 
dwelling.  
There are more than two parking 
spaces available on site, including 
within the attached garage to the 
SFD and within the Major Accessory.  
COMPLIES 
Transportation Infrastructure and 
Access Design 
The maximum grade of this 
driveway does not exceed 10% and 
is a minimum of 16ft wide. It only 
serves 1 dwelling.  
COMPLIES 
Public Utilities No evidentiary letters are required COMPLIES 
145
5 
 
A letter shall be obtained from the 
public utility companies that will 
provide service. 
prior to CUP approval. Utility 
providers reviewed the application 
and did not raise concerns.  
Mail Delivery 
Locations for mail delivery should 
be shown on the final site plan 
and written approval from the 
postmaster.  
There is already an existing SFD on 
the property that receives mail.  
COMPLIES 
Solid Waste and Recycling 
Garbage and Recycling Containers 
need to be located within a 
completely enclosed structure.  
There is sufficient space within the 
garages to completely enclose the 
solid waste and recycling. Because 
the property is not in the Mountain 
Remote (MR) zone, a Memorandum 
of Understanding (MOU) is not 
required. 
COMPLIES 
Snow Removal and Storage 
Development shall provide 
adequate area for snow removal.  
Snow removal and storage locations 
are shown on the site plan. There is 
sufficient space. Because the 
property is not in the MR zone, a 
MOU is not required.  
COMPLIES 
Police and Security 
Prior to submitting an application 
for development approval, the 
applicant shall obtain certification 
as to compliance with this 
standard. 
There is adequate access for law 
enforcement purposes. Because the 
property is not in the MR zone, a 
MOU is not required. 
COMPLIES 
Parks, Trails, and Trailheads 
All development shall provide 
neighborhood park facilities in a 
manner that is sufficient to meet 
the specific recreational demands 
generated by the development. 
No new recreational demand is 
being generated by this proposal. 
There is no need to provide 
neighborhood park facilities. There 
is not a trail identified for this area 
in the Snyderville Basin Master 
Trails Plan document.  
COMPLIES 
ADA Access 
All building intended for public use 
shall be accessible to the disabled, 
as per the requirements of the 
international building code and the 
Americans with disabilities act. 
The building is not intended for 
public use.  
COMPLIES 
Special Site Design Requirements 
*Existing Uses 
*Building Site Plan 
*Privacy 
On-site privacy for adjacent land 
uses will not be affected as there is 
already an existing home and barn 
on the property. Side and rear yards 
COMPLIES 
146
6 
 
*Number SFD on a Lot 
*Intersecting Streets & Clear 
Visibility 
*Clear front, side, and rear yards 
*SFD Design Elements 
 
will remain clear. Only one SFD is 
proposed on the property. The 
proposed use is consistent with 
existing neighborhood uses. The lot 
is not a corner lot. There are no 
CC&Rs to guide the design of the 
SFD.  
Architectural Regulations for All 
Structures 
Neither the siding, nor roof 
materials are prohibited design 
styles. The siding is proposed to be 
wood with a metal roof. The North 
and South facades are 
approximately 78’ long. There is a 
façade shift that cumulatively is 
greater than 10’ combined with 
horizontal and vertical shifts. No 
greater than 75% of the façade 
appears unbroken.  
COMPLIES 
Landscape Regulations 
All new development requiring a 
land use permit shall comply with 
the landscape requirements.  
According to Section 10-4-20-B, the 
use of water pursuant to water 
shares and/or water rights are 
exempt from landscaping 
requirements. This property has one 
Order of the State Engineer (OSE 
35-14492) that demonstrates 
sufficient water rights for the 
proposal.  
COMPLIES 
Lighting Regulations 
All development permit 
applications that propose exterior 
outdoor lighting or street lighting 
shall include a lighting plan. 
All lighting for the Accessory 
Building and the SFD are full cutoff 
fixtures that are downward directed 
and fully opaque so that light only 
escapes from the bottom of the 
fixture. The total outdoor light 
output is approximately 10,000 
lumens, which includes the lighting 
on the Accessory Building and the 
SFD. Soffit and wall mounted lights 
are mounted at between 8’ and 9’ 
3” from finished grade.  
COMPLIES 
Height Regulations 
The maximum height allowed is 32’ 
from existing or finished grade, 
whichever results in a greater 
measurement.  
The height of the proposed            
Major Accessory Building is 26’.  
COMPLIES 
147
7 
 
 
Standard 3: The use is not detrimental to public health, safety and welfare; COMPLIES 
 
Analysis: The plans for the proposed Major Accessory Building and SFD have been 
reviewed by the Summit County Sherrif’s Office, the Health, Building, and Engineering 
Departments and no concerns were raised regarding the proposed uses to public health, 
safety, and welfare.  
 
Standard 4: The use is appropriately located with respect to public facilities; COMPLIES 
   
Analysis: The proposed property is near existing road and public safety facilities within 
an established neighborhood area within the Snyderville Basin. The property has been 
developed with a SFD since 1969 and has had sufficient access to public facilities.  
 
Standard 5: The use is compatible with the existing neighborhood character and with the 
character and purpose provision of the applicable zoning district and will not adversely affect 
surrounding land uses. COMPLIES 
 
Analysis: The Snyderville Basin General Plan establishes that development in the Old 
Ranch Road neighborhood should “compatible with the large lot single family detached 
dwellings and equestrian uses”. The proposed style and types of uses are consistent 
with nearby development within the neighborhood and the RR zone district.  
 
Special CUP Standards: In addition to the standards established in this section and in chapter 4 
of the Code for particular uses, all conditional uses within a zoning district shall conform to the 
following standards and criteria. 
 
Analysis: See table below.  
 
Code Requirement Analysis Finding 
Escrow for Extraordinary Costs 
The commission may require the 
applicant subject to an 
application for CUP approval to 
establish or post a bond for 
infrastructure improvements, 
including any conditions of 
approval. 
The Summit County Engineering 
Department reviewed this proposal 
and did not recommend that they 
post a bond for infrastructure 
improvements.  
COMPLIES 
No Reduction in Level of Services 
The proposed development shall 
not cause a reduction in the 
adopted level of service for any 
public facility. 
No negative impacts to public roads 
or services are anticipated by the 
proposed development.  
COMPLIES 
Lighting See analysis under Standard 2 table COMPLIES 
148
8 
 
above. 
Preserve Topography, Soils, 
Critical Areas, etc. 
The natural topography, soils, 
critical areas, watercourses and 
vegetation shall be preserved 
whenever possible.  
No sensitive soils, critical areas, or 
watercourses are on site. The site is 
already disturbed with a large 
Accessory Building and SFD. The site 
will expand upon previously disturbed 
areas and utilize existing 
infrastructure like driveways.  
COMPLIES 
Roads  
All roads shall provide free 
movement for safe an efficient 
use within a development. 
There are no proposed roads on the 
site.  
COMPLIES 
Vehicle and Pedestrian 
Passageways 
Vehicular and pedestrian 
passageways shall be separated 
from public rights of way. 
Pedestrian pathways shall be 
provided. 
The proposed use does not require 
any pedestrian or vehicular 
improvements.  
COMPLIES 
Scale of Buildings 
Buildings shall provide a human 
scale.  
The proposed buildings comply with 
all height requirements and are 
designed to meet the character of the 
neighborhood. They are at human-
scale.  
COMPLIES 
Runoff 
Volume of post- development 
runoff shall not exceed pre-
development runoff. 
The Summit County Stormwater and 
Engineering Departments reviewed 
the proposal and did not identify an 
increase in runoff. 
COMPLIES 
Landscaping See analysis under Standard 2 table 
above. 
COMPLIES 
 
 
Accessory Building Criteria: 10-8-17 
Section 10-8-17 outlines the criteria for accessory buildings.  
  
Analysis: See table below.  
 
Code Requirement Analysis Finding 
The Accessory Building shall be 
incidental and subordinate to 
the principal structure.  
The building will be incidental to the proposed 
SFD on the site. 
COMPLIES 
149
9 
 
A lot may have one Major and 
one Minor Accessory Building. 
An additional 400 sf of 
coverage is allowed for 
secondary accessory 
structures.  
The proposed Major Accessory will be the only 
one on the site. The building identified as a 
pool house on the site plan is considered a 
Minor Accessory Building. The Minor 
Accessory is 354 sf and is less than 75% of the 
building footprint of the principal structure 
(the proposed SFD) on-site.  
COMPLIES 
A Minor and Major Accessory 
Building may not be combined 
to create a larger structure.   
The proposal will not combine accessory 
structures. 
COMPLIES 
Existing accessory structures 
shall be counted toward the 
total square footage and 
number of buildings allowed 
on the lot.   
All existing structures on-site will be removed 
and demolished. As conditioned, prior to 
receiving a Building Permit for the proposed 
Major Accessory Building, there shall be no 
other accessory structures on the lot.  
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
Accessory Buildings shall be 
under the same ownership or 
control as the principal use or 
structure.  
The proposed building will be owned by the 
current property owners and will not be sold 
separately.  
COMPLIES 
No Accessory Building shall be 
established or constructed 
before the principal use is in 
operation or under 
construction.  
The principal use of the lot is residential and 
has been used as a residence. Although the 
existing dwelling is proposed to be 
demolished, a new SFD was reviewed and 
approved on July 21, 2025 by the Community 
Development Director through Low Impact 
Permit #25-133.  
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
No sign, except those 
permitted in Section 10-8-2 of 
the Code, shall be maintained 
in connection with an 
Accessory Building. 
There are no signs proposed.  COMPLIES 
A Major Accessory Building 
must be located on lots 
greater than 1 acre. The 
allowed Major Accessory 
Building size for a lot between 
4 and 5 acres is 10,000 sf. 
The footprint of the proposed building is 
5,710 sf, which is under the maximum 
footprint size allowed by the lot size.  
COMPLIES 
No Accessory Structure may 
encroach into required 
setbacks.  
The proposal complies with all setbacks.  COMPLIES 
The height of Major 
Accessory Buildings may not 
exceed 26’.  
The proposed height of the Major Accessory is 
26’ from Grade, Finished and 25’6” from 
Grade, Natural. The Minor Accessory is 20’ in 
COMPLIES 
150
10 
 
height from natural and existing grade. 
 
Public Notice, Meetings and Comments  
This application was publicly noticed as a public hearing with possible action with the SBPC for 
the August 12, 2025 meeting. Notice was physically posted and published online prior to the 
meeting. Courtesy postcards were mailed to property owners within 1000’ of the subject 
property. The item was published in the Park Record. Staff made an error with the address 
published on the agenda for the August 12th meeting; therefore, the project was moved to the 
next available meeting (August 26, 2025). New postcards were mailed to neighbors to provide 
notice of the meeting date change. 
 
As of the date of this report, no public comment was received by Staff.  
 
Recommendation 
Staff recommends that the Snyderville Basin Pl anning Commission (SBPC) review the proposal, 
conduct a public hearing, and a pprove the application, pursuant to the following findings of 
fact, conclusions of law, and conditions of approval. 
 
Findings of Fact: 
1. On April 25, 2025, the Summit County Community Development Department received a 
complete application for a Conditional Use Permit (CUP) for a Major Accessory Building 
at 4865 N 400 W, Park City (the property).  
2. The property is identified as Parcel PP-87-8 and is 4.80 acres.  
3. The property is a Lot of Record in the Rural Residential (RR) zone.  
4. According to Summit County records, the property is owned by Nathan H Wright 
Trustee. Nathan Wright signed the CUP application form.  
5. The property is currently developed with a single-family dwelling (SFD), a large 
accessory building, and multiple smaller accessory buildings.  
6. The intent of this proposal is to permit a new Major Accessory Building on the property. 
All existing structures on-site will be removed and demolished.  
7. Although the existing dwelling is proposed to be demolished, a new SFD was reviewed 
and approved on July 21, 2025 by the Community Development Director through Low 
Impact Permit #25-133.  
8. As conditioned, prior to construction of the proposed Major Accessory Building, there 
shall be no other accessory structures on the lot.  
9. The height of the proposed Major Accessory Building is 26’.  
10. The footprint of the proposed building is 5,710 sf, which is under the maximum 
footprint size allowed by the lot size. 
11. The setbacks of the proposed Major Accessory Building are as follows: front = 150.75’, 
north side = 45’, south side = 314.33’, rear = 12’. 
12. The Major Accessory Building will be used as garage and storage space for the property 
owners. The Major Accessory Building is not intended for public use.  
151
11 
 
13. On-site privacy for adjacent land uses will not be affected by this proposal.  
14. Neither the design/siding/roof materials of the proposed SFD nor Major Accessory 
Building are prohibited design styles. The North and South facades are approximately 
78’ long. There is a façade shift that cumulatively is greater than 10’ combined with 
horizontal and vertical shifts. No greater than 75% of the façade length appears 
unbroken.  
15. The building identified as a pool house on the site plan is considered a Minor Accessory 
Building. The Minor Accessory is 354 sf, 20’ in height, and is less than 75% of the building 
footprint of the SFD approved in LIP #25-133. 
16. The proposal will not combine accessory structures. There are no signs proposed.  
17. The principal use of the lot is residential and has been used as a residence. The 
proposed new SFD will be constructed simultaneously.   
18. The project will not produce emissions that conflict with the State’s air quality 
standards. The proposal does not include any point-source discharge. The Summit 
County Stormwater Department reviewed the proposal and did not raise concerns 
regarding non-point discharge or water runoff concerns. The proposal is not within 
1,500’ above or 100’ below any springs used for culinary or public water.  
19. No sensitive soils, critical areas, or watercourses are on site and the proposal will not 
adversely affect critical wildlife habitat. There are no proposed roads.  
20. The proposal will not encroach into any wetlands, slopes exceeding 30%, ridgelines, 
avalanche zones, or geologic hazard areas.  
21. This project complies with the base zone density and is therefore exempt from open 
space requirements. 
22. The proposal is not within 300’ of an existing SBWRD line. The project will be served by a 
septic system. The applicant submitted passing percolation test results to the Summit 
County Health Department. 
23. There are more than two parking spaces available on site, including within the attached 
garage to the SFD and within the Major Accessory Building. 
24. The maximum grade of this driveway does not exceed 10% and is a minimum of 16ft 
wide. It only serves 1 dwelling.   
25. There is sufficient space within the garages to completely enclose the solid waste and 
recycling.  
26. There is sufficient space for snow removal and storage locations shown on the site plan.  
27. The property contains an existing well. The Water Right (35-14492) for the well includes 
sufficient culinary water for a residence and accessory unit, plus .09 acre feet of outdoor 
water. The Water Right includes sufficient water for all of the proposed uses on the 
property. 
28. All lighting for the Accessory Building and the SFD approved via LIP #25-133 are full 
cutoff fixtures that are downward directed and fully opaque so that light only escapes 
from the bottom of the fixture. The total outdoor light output is approximately 10,000 
lumens, which includes the lighting on the Accessory Building and the SFD. Soffit and 
wall mounted lights are mounted at between 8’ and 9’ 3” from finished grade. 
29. Staff and service providers reviewed the proposal.  
 
152
12 
 
Conclusions of Law:  
1. The use is in accordance with the general plan. 
2. The use conforms to all applicable provisions of the Code, including, but not limited to, 
any applicable provisions of Section 10-3-5, Chapter 4, and state and federal regulations. 
3. The use is not detrimental to public health, safety, and welfare. 
4. The use is appropriately located with respect to public facilities. 
5. The use is compatible with the existing neighborhood character and with the purpose 
provisions of the applicable zone district, and will not affect surrounding land uses. 
 
Conditions of Approval: 
1. A demolition permit must be obtained and all existing Accessory Buildings shall be 
removed from the site prior to approval of a Building Permit for the proposed Major 
Accessory Building,  
2. The SFD shall receive a CO prior to a final inspection of the Major Accessory Building.  
3. The improvements shall be as shown in Exhibits A and B.  
4. The Major Accessory Building is for the private use of the property owners and not for 
any commercial uses. Amendments to this permit are required to accommodate any 
proposed commercial activities.  
5. Any modifications to this permit shall be done in accordance with Section 10-3-5 I of the 
Snyderville Basin Development Code.  
6. The Major Accessory Building shall not be sold separately from the primary residence on 
the property.  
7. All lighting on the accessory building shall be done in accordance with the lighting 
submitted with this application and shown in Exhibit C. Any deviations from the lighting 
in Exhibit C shall comply with all lighting requirements in the Snyderville Basin 
Development Code.  
8. Prior to building permit issuance, all service provider requirements shall be satisfied.  
9. All necessary approvals and permits must be obtained, and fees paid, prior to 
recommencing any construction activity including but not limited to the County Health 
Department, Park City Fire District, County Engineer, County Building and County 
Planning Departments. 
10. This Conditional Use Permit shall expire one year from the date of approval unless the 
conditional use permit activity has begun, or an extension is requested in writing by the 
applicant and granted by the Community Development Director. 
 
 
 
Attachments  
Exhibit A – Site Plan 
Exhibit B – Floor Plan 
Exhibit C – Lighting 
 
153
44'-113
4"
OHU OHU OHU OHU OHU OHU OHU OHU OHU OHU OHU OHU OHU OHU OHU OHU OHU OHU OHU
OHU
OHU
OHU
OHU OHU OHU
OHU
OHU OHU
OHU
OHU OHU OHU
6440
6439
6438
6437
6437
6436
6436
6436
6436
6435
6435
6435
6434
6434
6433
6432
6431
6433
6433
6433
6436
6437
248'-111
2"
314'-43
4"
150'-33
4"
477'
440'
NOT INCLUDED IN THIS PERMIT.
STRUCTURE SUBMITTED IN
SEPARATE PERMIT
PROPOSED BARN
SEE ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS
NOT INCLUDED
IN THIS PERMIT.
STRUCTURE
SUBMITTED IN
SEPARATE
PERMIT
WORK LIMIT LINE
01-01
SNOW
STORAGE
AREA
SNOW
STORAGE
AREA
400 W
SNOW
STORAGE
AREA
6439
6438
6437
6436
6437
6435
6436
6436
6436
CODE DESCRIPTION
01 PAVEMENTS, RAMPS, CURBS
CRUSHED STONE DRIVE01-01
NOTE: ALL UNHATCHED AREAS OUTSIDE OF THE
BUILDING FOOTPRINT AND IN THE WORK LIMITS
WILL BE FINISHED WITH NEW OR EXISTING
PLANTINGS.
 Apr 08, 2025 - 5:15pm
P:\0202-Wright Farms\D-CAD\02. Sheets\Barn\CUP\CUP100 - CUP - Site Plan.dwg
4 5321
4 5321
B
C
D
E
F
B
C
D
E
F
AA
PROJECT NAME:
  CLIENT JOB NO.
CREATION DATE
DATE REVISED
BY:DESCRIPTIONXX
L101
CONDITIONAL USE
PERMIT
PARK CITY, UT
WRIGHT RESIDENCE
859 S 800 E,
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84110
www.loci-slc.com
801.906.0399
DRAWN BY
PROJECT MANAGER
4865 NORTH 400 WEST,
CH
DD
04/11/2025
0 4020
SITE PLAN
EXHIBIT A
154
BIMcloud: LABIM26 - BIMcloud Basic for Archicad 26/WRIGHT Wednesday, April 9, 2025 30
Lloyd Architects
573 E 600 South
Salt Lake City, UT 84102
801.328.3245
inquiries@lloyd-arch.com
lloyd-arch.com
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
(STAMP LOCATION)
[CONSULTANT LOGO]
Project # #4 DIGIT ID
Print Date
#### ####
Drawing Revisions Date
#### ####
A101
© 2023 Lloyd Architects
WRIGHT RESIDENCE
4865 N 400 W Park City 84098 UT
PP-87-8
FOR: NATHAN AND BETSY WRIGHT
MAIN FLOOR PLAN
N
UP
DN
W01BW02BW04B W03B
W15BW14B
W13B W16B
W12B
W11B
W10B
W09B
W08B
W07B
W06B
W05B
104B103B
101B
102B
105B
W20B W19B W18B W17B
111B
110B
67
A430
106B 107B 108B 109B
20'-4"4'-8"30'-0"4'-8"20'-4"
5'-0"20'-0"13'-6"13'-6"19'-1163/64"5'-01/64"
7'-415/16" 21'-43/8"
19'-11"
100'-0"
6433.8'
100'-0"
6433.8'
2
A200
1
A200
2
A201
1
A201
W-1
A430
W-1
A430
0203
F-1
01
04
04
04
00
04
04
04
04
06
05
W-03
W-03
W-02 W-01
W-01
W-01
W-01
W-01
04
04
BARN 1
1
A302
1
A302
2
A302
2
A302
2
A301
2
A301
1
A301
1
A301
BB
AA
FF
GG
6
6
4
4
3
3
1
1
5
5
2
2
CC
DD
EE
19'-101/2"4'-8"30'-0"4'-8"19'-101/2"
5'-41/2"3'-0"7'-8"3'-0"20'-6"20'-93/4"3'-0"7'-41/4"3'-0"5'-41/2"
5'-0" 20'-0" 13'-6" 13'-6" 20'-0" 5'-0"
12'-91/2"13'-6"13'-6"13'-6"12'-91/2"
2'-01/2"2'-111/2"66'-1"
2'-41/2" 9'-10" 12'-91/2" 14'-61/2" 14'-61/2" 9'-11/2" 7'-0" 8'-101/2"
10'-2"1'-9"3'-8"3'-27/8"1'-41/8"
2'-5"9'-9"7'-9"
6'-11" 2'-33/8"
W-03
W-03
W-01
W-01
W-01
W-01
W-01
W-01
W-02
IN PROGRESS
5'-0"
X
X
XX-##
PRIMARY ENTRANCE CLEARANCE
(SEE PLANS FOR EXACT DIMENSIONS)
30" X 48" CLEAR SPACE
60" TURNING RADIUS
BATHROOM CLEAR SPACE
5 6 "X6 0 "W C( T Y P EA )
5 6 "X4 8 "W C( T Y P EB )
60" X 30" TUB
PLAN KEY NOTES
01. - GAS HEATER
02. - STACKED WASHER/DRYER
03. - SINK
04. - FLOOR DRAIN
05. - INTERIOR STAIR; SEE STAIR DETAILS
06. - INTERIOR STAIR RAILING; SEE STAIR
DETAILS
07. - RAILING
08. - EXHAUST VENT FAN
WALL TYPE. SEE A501
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
FLOOR/ROOF TYPE. SEE A500
FINISH CALLOUT . SEE 01/A610
(E) WALL
PROPOSED / INFILLED WALL
PLAN GENERAL NOTES
SEE ALSO 50MAIN FLOOR PLAN
1. SEE STRUCTURAL, MECHANICAL, ELECTRICAL
DWGs. FOR ADDITIONAL INFO.
SCALE: 1/4" = 1'-0"1 BARN MAIN FLOOR PLAN
hello
EXHIBIT B
155
BIMcloud: LABIM26 - BIMcloud Basic for Archicad 26/WRIGHT Tuesday, July 1, 2025  30
Lloyd Architects
573 E 600 South
Salt Lake City, UT 84102
801.328.3245
inquiries@lloyd-arch.com
lloyd-arch.com
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
(STAMP LOCATION)
[CONSULTANT LOGO]
Project # WRIG
Print Date
#### ####
Drawing Revisions Date
#### ####
A200
© 2025 Lloyd Architects
WRIGHT BARN
4868 N 400 W
Park City, UT 84098
BUILDING
ELEVATIONS
A
A
B
B
F
F
G
G
C
C
D
D
E
E
W29BW30B W23B W22B
102B
0909
W05BW06BW07BW08BW09BW10BW11BW12B
W28B W27B W26B W25B W24B
MAIN FLOOR
100'-0"
LOFT
115'-11"
EXISTING GRADE LINE
1
1
3
3
4
4
6
6
2
2
5
5
26'-0"
TO F.G. AND E.G.
8'-0"
8'-0"
W20B W19BW04B W03B W02B W01B W17BW18B
W21B
101B
10
11
MAIN FLOOR
100'-0"
LOFT
115'-11"
EXIST
INGG
RADE
LIN
E
MATERIAL & COLOR LEGEND
LUNAWOOD THERMO
SPRUCE WOOD SIDING
SUPPLIER: DELTA MILLWORKS
SIZE: 8" VERTICAL
COLOR: CUSTOM FINISH 27228
LINE #2 SMOOTH
STANDING SEAM METAL
ROOF
SUPPLIER: TBD
SIZE: 16" SEAMS
COLOR: GALVANIZED STEEL
INP R O G
RESS
BLDG. ELEVATION & SECTION
KEY NOTES
01. EXHAUST VENT FAN
02. SNOW PROTECTION; TYPE, AMOUNT , AND
LAYOUTS TO BE DETERMINED BY ROOFING
INSTALLER
03. GUTTER TO MATCH ROOF FINISH
04. DOWNSPOUT TO MATCH ROOF FINISH
00. WALL MOUNTED GOOSENECK LIGHT
FIXTURE; SEE SPEC SHEET
BLDG. ELEVATION & SECTION
GENERAL NOTES
SEE ALSO G100 GENERAL NOTES
1. FLOOR BENCHMARK ELEVATIONS MEASURED
TO T .O. CONCRETE OR SUBFLOOR
2.
SCALE: 1/4" = 1'-0"2 SOUTH BARN ELEVATION
SCALE: 1/4" = 1'-0"1 EAST BARN ELEVATION
156
BIMcloud: LABIM26 - BIMcloud Basic for Archicad 26/WRIGHT Tuesday, July 1, 2025  30
Lloyd Architects
573 E 600 South
Salt Lake City, UT 84102
801.328.3245
inquiries@lloyd-arch.com
lloyd-arch.com
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
(STAMP LOCATION)
[CONSULTANT LOGO]
Project # WRIG
Print Date
#### ####
Drawing Revisions Date
#### ####
A201
© 2025 Lloyd Architects
WRIGHT BARN
4868 N 400 W
Park City, UT 84098
BUILDING
ELEVATIONS
G
G
F
F
B
B
A
A
E
E
D
D
C
C
W38BW40B W39B W32BW33B
109B 108B 107B 106B
09
W37B W36B W35B W34B
11 11 11 11
10
MAIN FLOOR
100'-0"
LOFT
115'-11"
EXISTING GRADE LINE
6
6
5
5
4
4
3
3
2
2
1
1
26'-0"
TO F .G. AND E.G.
9'-3"
W15B W14B 105B
103B
104B
08
W16B W13B
N FLOOR
100'-0"
LOFT
115'-11"
EXISTING GRADE LINE
MATERIAL & COLOR LEGEND
LUNAWOOD THERMO
SPRUCE WOOD SIDING
SUPPLIER: DELTA MILLWORKS
SIZE: 8" VERTICAL
COLOR: CUSTOM FINISH 27228
LINE #2 SMOOTH
STANDING SEAM METAL
ROOF
SUPPLIER: TBD
SIZE: 16" SEAMS
COLOR: GALVANIZED STEEL
INP R O G
RESS
BLDG. ELEVATION & SECTION
KEY NOTES
01. EXHAUST VENT FAN
02. SNOW PROTECTION; TYPE, AMOUNT , AND
LAYOUTS TO BE DETERMINED BY ROOFING
INSTALLER
03. GUTTER TO MATCH ROOF FINISH
04. DOWNSPOUT TO MATCH ROOF FINISH
00. WALL MOUNTED GOOSENECK LIGHT
FIXTURE; SEE SPEC SHEET
BLDG. ELEVATION & SECTION
GENERAL NOTES
SEE ALSO G100 GENERAL NOTES
1. FLOOR BENCHMARK ELEVATIONS MEASURED
TO T .O. CONCRETE OR SUBFLOOR
2.
SCALE: 1/4" = 1'-0"2 NORTH BARN ELEVATION
SCALE: 1/4" = 1'-0"1 WEST BARN ELEVATION
157
Rega 24" Folded Sconce
Designer: Kelly Wearstler
Item # KW 2782BZ
Height: 24"
Width: 5.25"
Extension: 3.25"
Backplate: 4.5" x 24" Rectangle
Finishes: AB, BZ
Lightsource: Dedicated LED
Wattage: 12w (1000lm)
Weight: 6 Pounds
EXHIBIT C
158
From: Rosemary Stum
To: Jennifer Leslie
Cc: Nathan Wright
Subject: Re: Wright Barn CUP - File 25-067
Date: Tuesday, April 29, 2025 12:33:11 PM
Attachments: ts_kw2782bz.pdf
Jennifer, 
See attached and the link for the lighting fixtures for the house and the barn. 
Customizable Vintage
Indoor/Outdoor LED Barn Light
cocoweb.com
 
Rosemary Stum, AIA
Associate
 width= 385.420.5739 
573 E 600 S, Salt Lake City, UT 84102
lloyd-arch.com
159
Community Development Department
P.O. Box 128
60 North Main Street
Coalville, Utah 84017
summitcounty.org
STAFF REPORT
To: Snyderville Basin Planning Commission
From: Jennifer Leslie, County Planner
Date of Meeting: August 26, 2025
Date of Report: August 20, 2025
Type of Item: Plat Amendment - Public Hearing, Possible Action
Process: Administrative Review
File #: 25-131
Proposal
The applicant proposes to move the southernmost building envelope on Lot 303A of the 
Timberline No. 3 Subdivision by approximately 30 ft north and 20 ft east. The proposed building 
envelope is 1,548 sf, which is the same size as the existing envelope. 
Project Description
Project Name: Timberline No. 3 Subdivision Lot 303A Amendment 
Applicant(s): Tyler York
Property Owner(s): Bitchby LLC
Location: 4922 Ponderosa Dr
Zone District: Hillside Stewardship (HS)
Parcel Number and Size: TL-3-A-303A-AM (1.36 acres)
Final Land Use Authority: Snyderville Basin Planning Commission (SBPC)
Vicinity Map
160
2 
 
Background 
The Timberline No. 3 Amended Subdivision includes twenty-three (23) lots and was recorded on 
in 1973. Lots 303, 304, 305, 306, and 307 were together amended as the Amended Plat of Lots 
303, 304, 305, 306, & 307, Timberline Subdivision Plat No.3 Amended in 2003. The 2003 
amendment added building envelopes to the applicable Lots.   
 
Lot 303A contains two building envelopes. The southernmost envelope is approximately 1,580 
sf. The northernmost envelope is approximately 22,295 sf and is developed with a single-family 
dwelling built in 2015.  
 
Tyler York, the Registered Agent of Bitchby LLC, the property owner, requests to adjust the 
southernmost building envelope on Lot 303A. The proposed amendment will move the 
envelope approximately 30 ft north and 20 ft east of its current placement. The proposed 
envelope is approximately 1548 sf. The applicant provided topography for the site. The 
proposed amendment would not move the building envelope into any slopes in excess of 30% 
or other critical areas. The building on the proposed envelope will be able to comply with all 
required setbacks.  
 
The proposed amendment will accommodate a future accessory structure on the property. 
Without the amendment, any structure placed within the envelope will interfere with driveway 
access to the dwelling. 
 
Staff and service providers reviewed the application and found that, as conditioned, the 
proposal complies with all applicable standards.  
 
Analysis and Findings 
Section 10-3-18 (I) of the Snyderville Basin Development Code sets the following grounds for 
vacating or changing a plat: 
 
Standard 1: If the county manager or land use authority is satisfied that neither the public nor 
any person will be materially injured by the proposed vacation, alteration or amendment, and 
that there is good cause for the vacation, alteration, or amendment, the county manager or 
land use authority may vacate, alter or amend the plat, any portion of the plat, or any road or 
lot. 
  
Analysis: The requested amendment would allow future construction on the property to 
occur outside of an established driveway that provides access to a single-family 
dwelling. The applicant has stated that they intend to construct and accessory dwelling 
on the southernmost building envelope. Accessory buildings are allowed and/or 
permitted uses in the Hillside Stewardship zone. Staff and service providers reviewed 
the proposal and raised no concerns. Staff finds no evidence that the public nor any 
person would be materially injured by the amendment. COMPLIES 
161
3 
 
 
Standard 2: No plat amendment shall be approved which results in an increase in density. 
 
Analysis: Density is defined in the Code as, “The number of dwelling units per acre with 
respect to residential land uses.” The applicant is requesting to amend the location of a 
building envelope on an existing residential lot. The amendment would not result in an 
additional residential unit. An existing single-family dwelling exists on the property. 
COMPLIES 
 
Public Notice, Meetings and Comments  
This item was noticed as a public hearing with possible action by the Snyderville Basin Planning 
Commission. The notice was physically posted on County property, published in The Park 
Record, and mailed to nearby land owners within 1,000’ from the property boundaries.  
 
As of the date of this report, no public comment has been received. 
 
Recommendation 
Staff recommends that the SBPC review the proposed plat amendment, conduct a public 
hearing, and approve the application, pursuant to the following Findings of Fact, Conclusions of 
Law, and Conditions of Approval. 
 
Findings of Fact: 
1. The Summit County Community Development Department received a complete 
application for a subdivision plat amendment for the Lot 303A of the Timberline No 3 
Subdivision on July 25, 2025.  
2. Lot 303A of the Timberline No. 3 Subdivision is identified as Parcel TL-3-A-303A-AM (the 
property) and is located at 4922 W Ponderosa Dr.  
3. The property is owned by Bitchby LLC. Tyler York, the Registered Agent of Bitchby LLC, 
signed the application form as the property owner and applicant.  
4. The property is in the Hillside Stewardship (HS) Zone and is 5.05 acres.  
5. The property is in the Timberline No. 3 Amended Subdivision, which was recorded on 
March 29, 1973 (Entry No. 119198).  
6. Lots 303, 304, 305, 306, and 307 were together amended as the Amended Plat of Lots 
303, 304, 305, 306, & 307, Timberline Subdivision Plat No.3 Amended on March 17, 
2003 (Entry No. 119198). 
7. The property includes two building envelopes as shown on the subdivision plat. The 
southernmost most building envelope is approximately 1,584 sf. The northernmost 
envelope is approximately 22,295 sf and is developed with a single-family dwelling built 
in 2015. 
8. The intent of this application is to adjust the southernmost building envelope so that a 
future building does not conflict with the existing driveway on-site.  
162
4 
 
9. The proposed amendment will move the building envelope approximately 30 ft north 
and 20 ft feet east of its current placement. The proposed size approximately is 1,548 sf.  
10. The proposed amendment would not move the building envelope into any slopes in 
excess of 30% or other critical areas. 
11. Density is defined in the Snyderville Basin Development Code as, “The number of 
dwelling units per acre with respect to residential land uses.”  The amendment would 
not result in any additional density. 
 
Conclusions of Law:  
1. Neither the public nor any person will be materially injured by the proposed 
amendment. 
2. The amendment would not result in an additional residential unit. 
 
Conditions of Approval: 
1. All service provider requirements shall be satisfied. 
2. Prior to issuance of a building permit, the amended plat shall be recorded in the Office 
of the Summit County Recorder. 
 
Attachments  
Exhibit A: Proposed Amendment 
Exhibit B: Amended Plat of Lots 303, 304, 305, 306, & 307, Timberline Subdivision Plat No.3 
Amended  
 
163
N 87°27'57" E    193.83'
S 89°45'20" E    71.52'
N 78°34'34" E    106.03'
N 0°05'46" E    498.97'
S 89°54'14" E    162.49'
N 9°40'44" W    185.31'
N 2°34'31" E    200.00'
N 89°54'14" W    152.91'
S 9°40'45" E    201.88'
S 8°22'33" W    697.70'
S 80°19'10" W    129.00'
150.68'
150.00'
145.00'
S 68°00'00" W    468.18'
S 71°39'56" E   189.98'
S 72°40'12" E   165.36'
N 2°15'35" E   397.13'
N 1°55'57" W   337.52'
S 81°54'30" W   124.80'
12.00'
12.00'
11.36'
L1
L2
L3
L4
78.55'
N 80°19'15" E   47.47'
__________________________________________
      SATTAR N. TABRIZ
}S.S.
AND THAT THE SAME HAS BEEN CORRECTLY SURVEYED AND MONUMENTED ON THE GROUND AS
SHOWN ON THIS PLAT.
SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
OWNER'S DEDICATION
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
GENERAL NOTES
TIMBERLINE SUBDIVISION PLAT NO. 3 AMENDED
LOT 303A
TIMBERLINE SUBDIVISION PLAT NO. 3 AMENDED
LOT 303A
I, SATTAR N. TABRIZ, DO HEREBY CERTIFY THAT I AM A PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYOR, AND
THAT I HOLD CERTIFICATE NO. 155100, IN ACCORDANCE WITH TITLE 58, CHAPTER 22, OF THE
PROFESSIONAL ENGINEERS AND LAND SURVEYORS ACT; I FURTHER CERTIFY THAT BY AUTHORITY
OF THE OWNERS I HAVE COMPLETED A SURVEY OF THE PROPERTY DESCRIBED ON THIS
SUBDIVISION PLAT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 17-23-17, HAVE VERIFIED ALL MEASUREMENTS
AND HAVE SUBDIVIDED SAID TRACT OF LAND INTO A LOT, AND EASEMENTS HEREAFTER TO BE
KNOWN AS:
LOT 303A, TIMBERLINE SUBDIVISION PLAT NO. 3 AMENDED, ACCORDING TO THE OFFICIAL PLAT
THEREOF ON FILE AND OF RECORD IN THE SUMMIT COUNTY RECORDER'S OFFICE.
NOTE: ALL OTHER LOTS ARE SHOWN FOR INFORMATION PURPOSES ONLY AND ARE NOT A PART
OF THIS PLAT.
KNOWN ALL BY THESE PRESENTS THAT BITCHBY, LLC THE OWNER OF THE DESCRIBED TRACT OF
LAND ABOVE, HAVING CAUSED THE SAME TO BE SUBDIVIDED INTO 1 LOT TO BE HEREAFTER KNOWN
AS:
THE UNDERSIGNED OWNER HEREBY DEDICATES AND CONVEYS TO ANY AND ALL PUBLIC UTILITY
COMPANIES A PERPETUAL NON-EXCLUSIVE EASEMENT OVER THE PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENTS
SHOWN ON THIS PLAT. THE SAME TO BE USED FOR THE INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE AND
OPERATION OF UTILITY LINES AND FACILITIES SUBJECT TO ANY EXISTING EASEMENTS,
DECLARATIONS, COVENANTS, CONDITIONS, AND RESTRICTIONS.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WE HAVE HEREUNTO SET OUR HANDS THIS ____ DAY OF ____________
20 ___, A.D.
STATE OF ________________
COUNTY OF ______________
ON THIS ______ DAY OF _______________, 20 ___, PERSONALLY APPEARED BEFORE ME
__________________________________________,  WHO BEING BY ME DULY SWORN
DID SAY THAT HE/SHE IS THE  _____________________________________OF
____________________________________, L.L.C. , AND THAT HE/SHE/THEY EXECUTED THE
FOREGOING OWNERS DEDICATION IN BEHALF OF SAID LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY BEING
AUTHORIZED  AND EMPOWERED TO DO SO BY THE OPERATING AGREEMENT OF THE LIMITED
LIABILITY COMPANY, AND HE/SHE DID ACKNOWLEDGE TO ME THAT TO THAT SUCH LIMITED LIABILITY
COMPANY EXECUTED THE SAME FOR THE USE AND PURPOSES STATED THEREIN.
________________________________________
NOTARY PUBLIC
MY COMMISSION EXPIRES:
RESIDING IN __________________ COUNTY, _______________________________
1. COURSES AND DISTANCES SHOWN ON THIS MAP ARE RECORD DIMENSIONS TAKEN FROM
RECORDED PLATS.
2. THIS PLAT IS SUBJECT TO NOTES, AND OTHER INFORMATION AS SHOWN ON PRIOR RECORDED
PLATS. THE PURPOSE OF THIS PLAT IS ONLY TO MODIFY THE BUILDING ENVELOPE ON LOT 303A.
PUBLIC SAFETY ANSWERING POINT APPROVAL GOVERNING BODY APPROVAL AND ACCEPTANCE BY LAND
USE AUTHORITY
COUNTY TREASURERCOUNTY ENGINEER COUNTY ATTORNEY COUNTY RECORDER
PRINT NAME: ___________________________________________________________
AS AUTHORIZED FOR BITCHBY, LLC, A UTAH LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY
FIRE DISTRICT
(S 00°05'46" W 2694.59' SECTION LINE)
BASIS OF BEARING
LOT 304A
TIMBERLINE SUBDIVISION PLAT NO. 3
AMENDED
LOT 305A
TIMBERLINE SUBDIVISION PLAT NO. 3
AMENDED
LOT 307A
TIMBERLINE SUBDIVISION PLAT NO. 3
AMENDED
LOT 306A
TIMBERLINE SUBDIVISION PLAT NO. 3
AMENDED
WEST QUARTER CORNER, SECTION 10,
TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 3 EAST,
SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN,
SOUTHWEST CORNER, SECTION 10,
TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 3 EAST,
SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN,
LOT 303A
5.05 ACRES
1000.39'
20' WIDE SANITARY
SEWER EASEMENT
20' WIDE SANITARY
SEWER EASEMENT
LOT 52A
LOTS 51 & 52 SUMMIT PARK
PLAT "A"
AMENDED
LOT 52A
LOTS 51 & 52 SUMMIT PARK
PLAT "A"
AMENDED
LOT 322
TIMBERLINE 3 AMENDED
LOT 302
TIMBERLINE 3 AMENDED
LOT 300
TIMBERLINE 3 AMENDED
LOT 308
TIMBERLINE 3
AMENDED
LOT 309
TIMBERLINE 3
AMENDED
LOT 310
TIMBERLINE 3
AMENDED
LOT 311
TIMBERLINE 3
AMENDED
LOT 312
TIMBERLINE 3
AMENDED
LOT 43
TIMBERLINE 1
LOT 44
TIMBERLINE 1
BUILDING ENVELOPE TYP.
20' WIDE SANITARY
SEWER EASEMENT
BUILDING ENVELOPE TYP.
BOUNDARY LINE
CENTERLINE
RIGHT OF WAY
LOT LINE
DEED LINE
RADIAL LINE
BUILDING ENVELOPE LINE
MONUMENT
BOUNDARY CORNER
EASEMENT LINE
LOT ADDRESS
4922 W.
WEST PONDEROSA DRIVE
EXISTING 50' PRIVATE R/W
4922 W.
FOR REVIEW
EXHIBIT A
164
EXHIBIT B
165
Community Development Department
P.O. Box 128
60 North Main Street
Coalville, Utah 84017
summitcounty.org
STAFF REPORT
To: Snyderville Basin Planning Commission
From: Jennifer Leslie, County Planner
Date of Meeting: August 26, 2025
Date of Report: August 20, 2025
Type of Item: Conditional Use Permit (CUP)
Process: Administrative Review
File #: 24-128
Project Description
Project Name: Altitude Lofts, Unit  3 – Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU)
Applicant(s): Molly Guinan, Elliott Workgroup
Property Owner(s): Altitude 3 LLC
Location: 4123 N Forestdale Drive, #3
Zone District: Service Commercial (SC)
Parcel Number: ALTLC-3
Type of Item: Conditi onal Use Permit (CUP)
Process: Administrative Review
Final Land Use Authority: Snyderville Basin Planning Commission (SBPC)
Proposal
The applicant, on behalf of the owner, is requesting Conditional Use approval for an Accessory 
Dwelling Unit (ADU) in Unit 3 of the Altitude Lofts Condominiums. The applicant states that the 
three-level unit will include a ground floor garage, second-floor offices and conference area, 
and third floor ADU that is 999sf. 
Vicinity Map
166
2 
 
Background 
On August 15, 2024, the applicant submitted a complete application for a Conditional Use 
Permit (CUP) application to construct an Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) within the third floor of 
Unit 3 of the Altitude Loft Condominiums, located at 4123 Forestdale Dr Unit #3. The Altitude 
Loft Condominium plat was recorded on September 8, 2022 (Entry No. 1194835) after two shell 
buildings (Buildings A and B) were approved through a Low Impact Permit on May 26, 2022 (File 
#21-178). The Altitude Loft Condominiums are subject to the Park City Business Center 
Development Agreement and associated Parking Management Plan (Entry No. 1190794).  
 
The proposal for Unit 3 will include space for garage on the ground floor, office space and 
conference room on the second floor, and a 999 sf ADU on the third floor. The ADU will be 
accessed via an interior staircase that can also access business space. Exhibit B includes the 
proposed floor plans. The Code typically requires that ADU Floor Area calculations include 
staircase square footage. However, the Community Development Director (CDD) confirmed 
that because of the shared access to business space on the third floor, the staircase should not 
be calculated.   
 
Section 10-2-10 of the Snyderville Basin Development Code lists ADUs as a Conditional Use 
within the Service Commercial Zone. Only one (1) ADU may be permitted per commercial unit 
within the zone. Staff and service providers have reviewed the project and found that it 
complies, as conditioned, with all requirements of the Code and the Park City Business Center 
Development Agreement.  
 
Analysis and Findings 
Chapter 2 - Zone District Requirements 
The subject property is located in the Service Commercial zone district and is within the Lower 
Silver Creek Soils Overlay Zone.   
 
CODE REQUIREMENT ANALYSIS FINDING 
SC Zone District Intent 
The purpose of the service 
commercial/light industrial (SC) zone 
district is to provide appropriate 
locations within the Snyderville Basin 
for service commercial and light 
industrial uses, recognizing that such 
uses provide vital support functions for 
the basin's resort and residential 
economy. 
The proposed business will be 
Addison Holdings LLC., a 
personal financing business, 
which would fall within the 
intended commercial category 
of uses. Per Condition of 
Approval #7, the accompanying 
ADU will be used to provide 
housing for an employee of the 
business.   
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
Minimum Setbacks 
Front = 30’ 
Side = 12’ 
Rear = 12’ 
No building setbacks are being 
changed. The ADU will be 
completed as a part of an 
internal tenant improvement 
COMPLIES 
167
3 
 
 project.   
Height 
The maximum height allowed is 32’ 
from existing or finished grade, 
whichever results in a greater 
measurement.  
There are no proposed changes 
to the building height with this 
proposal.  
COMPLIES 
Parking 
Parking shall comply with Section 10-4-
9 of this title, and onsite parking will 
be required for all employees expected 
to occupy the building for any given 
shift.  
An ADU is required to have one 
off-street parking space. See 
Condition of Approval #3 and 
analysis under Chapter 4 for all 
applicable parking standards.  
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
Delivery and Loading Areas 
The loading and unloading of goods 
shall take place entirely onsite and not 
interfere with emergency access.  
Loading and unloading for this 
building can either occur via the 
overhead door for Unit 3 or via 
the front entry door. There are 
no anticipated loading needs 
for the proposed business.  
COMPLIES 
Lower Silver Creek Soils Overlay Zone 
The overlay zone requires a soils study 
for any development or 
redevelopment activity.   
This proposal is for an interior 
tenant improvement. 
Remediation for this site has 
already been completed. 
COMPLIES 
 
Chapter 8 – General Regulations, Accessory Dwelling Unit Criteria (10-8-5) 
The proposal must comply with all criteria for Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU).  
 
CODE REQUIREMENT ANALYSIS FINDING 
Size 
The maximum Floor Area for 
ADUs is one thousand (1,000) sf, 
measured from the inside face of 
the perimeter wall to the inside 
face of the perimeter wall. Wall 
partitions, mechanical rooms, 
hallways, and stairwells are 
included.  
The Floor Area for the proposed ADU 
is approximately 999 square feet. The 
CDD determined that because of the 
shared access to business space on 
the third floor, the stairs should not 
be calculated toward the total Floor 
Area (Exhibit E). 
 
 
COMPLIES 
ADUs per Lot See Service Commercial Standard 
(below). 
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
Condominium 
Unless approved through the 
CUP in the SC Zone, ADUs shall 
not be within condo units.  
The proposed ADU is within the SC 
Zone. This CUP application satisfies 
the requirement for conditional use 
approval.  
COMPLIES 
Ownership This proposal does not include the COMPLIES AS 
168
4 
 
The ADU may not be sold 
separately from the associated 
commercial use. 
separate sale of the ADU. Staff has 
included Condition of Approval #6 to 
reiterate this standard.  
CONDITIONED 
Rental Term 
Nightly rentals are prohibited in 
ADUS. Rental terms for the ADU 
shall be no less than thirty (30) 
days. 
This proposal does not include 
nightly rental of the ADU. Condition 
of Approval #8 reiterates this 
standard. 
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
Parking 
In addition to the requirement 
for the primary use, a minimum 
of one (1) off-street parking 
space must be provided.  
The property is subject to the 
Altitude Loft Condominiums Parking 
Management Plan (Exhibit C). One of 
the reserved spaces allocated for the 
unit must be reserved for the 
occupant of the ADU, as outlined in 
Condition of Approval #3. All 
applicable parking standards are 
identified under the Chapter 4 
analysis table below.  
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
Certificate of Occupancy 
A certificate of occupancy for an 
ADU shall only be granted 
concurrent with or after the 
issuance of a certificate of 
occupancy for the associated 
commercial use.  
Conditions of Approval #4-5 reiterate 
this standard. 
Building codes restrict the amount of 
third-floor residential units that may 
be located within structures without 
common stairs and/or elevators for 
each of the units. If approved, this 
ADU for Unit 3 would be the third 
approved CUP for an ADU within the 
building. Any additional units might 
require mitigations to install 
elevators in each unit. Any 
mitigations would be determined by 
the Building Department.  
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
Review 
The Applicant for an ADU must 
submit a floor plan and site plan 
showing the proposed location, 
size, layout, and any proposed 
changes to an existing structure 
or site. 
The applicant submitted all required 
materials to review and process this 
CUP.  
COMPLIES 
Septic 
 
All development within PCBC is 
connected to sewer. The Snyderville 
Basin Water Reclamation District did 
not raise concerns with the proposal.  
COMPLIES 
169
5 
 
Water Summit Water has indicated there is 
adequate water for the proposal.  
COMPLIES 
Service Commercial Standard: 
ADUs Per Lot 
Only 1 ADU is permitted per unit 
in a condo within the SC zone. 
Only one ADU is proposed within this 
Unit. Condition of Approval #9 
reiterates that only one ADU has 
been approved for this Unit.   
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
Service Commercial Standard: 
Residency Restriction 
Condition of Approval #7 requires 
that the resident of the ADU must be 
either the owner or an employee of 
the associated business. The owner 
has indicated that the ADU will be 
used by the owner.  
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
Service Commercial Standard: 
Business Operations 
Addison Holdings LLC has a valid 
Summit County Business License 
(#4497) at a different address within 
the Snyderville Basin. Verification of 
business operation and Business 
License must be submitted prior to 
the Certificate of Occupancy for the 
ADU. Conditions of Approval #4 and 
#5 reiterate this standard.  
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
Conditional Use Permit Criteria  
No conditional use permit shall be approved unless the applicant demonstrates that: 
  
Standard 1: The use is in accordance with the General Plan. 
  
Analysis: Policy 2.16 of the Snyderville Basin General Plan states that new commercial 
developments should be located in existing commercial areas. This proposal supports 
that policy as Altitude Lofts is surrounded by other existing commercial uses in the 
Service Commercial Zone. Additionally, Policy 2.40 states that there should be a variety 
of housing types within the Snyderville Basin. The proposed ADU complies with that 
policy. COMPLIES 
 
Standard 2: The use conforms to all applicable provisions of this Title, including, but not limited 
to, any applicable provisions of this Section and Chapter 4 of this Title, the General Plan, and 
State and Federal regulations;  
 
Analysis:  
CODE REQUIREMENT ANALYSIS FINDING 
Environmental Criteria 
*Air Quality 
*Water Quality 
*Watershed Protection 
The Summit County Health 
Department and the Snyderville 
Basin Water Reclamation District 
reviewed this project for 
COMPLIES 
170
6 
 
*Sewage Disposal 
*Wildlife Habitat 
compliance and did not raise any 
concerns.  
Critical Lands 
*Wetlands 
*Slopes Exceeding 30% 
*Ridgelines 
*Avalanche Zones 
*Geologic Hazards 
No development is occurring in 
critical lands as defined by the 
Code. The structure does not 
encroach into any steep slopes, 
ridgelines, wetlands, streams, or 
ponds. 
COMPLIES 
Open Space There is no applicable open space 
requirement for this application.  
COMPLIES 
Water and Water Supply 
Willing to serve letter required 
prior to development permit 
approval 
The proposal has adequate water 
access.  
COMPLIES 
Sanitary Sewer 
A line extension agreement must 
be accepted by SBWRD prior to 
development permit approval 
The Snyderville Basin Water 
Reclamation District has already 
agreed to provide sewer services to 
the condominium building.  
COMPLIES 
Fire Protection 
Ability to serve a development to 
provide fire protection shall be 
provided, in writing, for all 
developments. 
The Park City Fire District reviewed 
the proposal and will address any 
life safety features of the space at 
the building permit stage. 
COMPLIES 
Loading and Unloading 
Applicant shall demonstrate 
adequate loading and unloading 
space is available within the 
development. 
Loading and unloading areas are 
located completely onsite and do 
not interfere with emergency, 
vehicular, or pedestrian access to 
this or other lots.  
COMPLIES 
Parking 
Section 10-8-5 (ADUs) requires a 
minimum of one (1) off-street 
parking space for the ADU.  
 
The Service Commercial Zone 
requires onsite parking for all 
employees expected to occupy the 
building for any given shift. 
Parking for Altitude Loft is subject to 
the Parking Management 
Agreement (Exhibit C). The Parking 
Management Agreement indicates 
that the Condominium Owner’s 
Association (COA) must attest that 
parking has been reviewed and that 
there is adequate parking for the 
proposed use or uses within each 
Unit. This ADU requires a minimum 
of one off-street parking space. The 
COA has indicated there is adequate 
parking for this Unit (Exhibit D). The 
Association claims there are four 
spaces available. There is one full-
COMPLIES 
171
7 
 
time employee (the owner) and two 
part-time employees expected for 
the business. The business does not 
have regular customers. As the 
occupant of the ADU must be an 
employee, there is sufficient parking 
for the employees and residents.  
Internal Parking Lot Landscaping 
At least 15% of the internal portion 
of a parking lot shall be landscaped. 
 
There are no proposed changes to 
the parking area that differ from 
previous approvals.  
COMPLIES 
Parking Lot Snow Storage 
Uncovered parking lots shall 
provide snow storage equal to 10% 
of the uncovered parking lot 
surface.  
There are no proposed changes to 
the parking area that differ from 
previous approvals.  
COMPLIES 
Transportation Infrastructure and 
Access Design 
No concerns were raised. COMPLIES 
Public Utilities 
A letter shall be obtained from the 
public utility companies that will 
provide service to the 
development. 
The proposal was reviewed by all 
applicable service providers. No 
concerns were raised. 
COMPLIES 
Mail Delivery 
Locations for mail delivery should 
be shown on the final site plan and 
written approval from the 
postmaster provided. 
No changes to mail delivery are 
proposed.  
COMPLIES 
Solid Waste and Recycling 
Garbage and Recycling Containers 
need to be identified on the site 
plan and located within a 
completely enclosed structure.  
Garbage and recycling will remain as 
previously approved.  
COMPLIES 
Snow Removal and Storage 
Development shall provide 
adequate area for snow removal.  
There is adequate snow storage 
area on site. 
COMPLIES 
Police and Security 
Prior to submitting an application 
for development approval, the 
applicant shall obtain certification 
as to compliance with this 
standard. 
No concerns were raised.  COMPLIES 
Parks, Trails, and Trailheads No trails, trailheads, or parks are COMPLIES 
172
8 
 
All development shall provide 
neighborhood park facilities in a 
manner that is sufficient to meet 
the specific recreational demands 
generated by the development. 
impacted by the proposal. 
ADA Access 
All building intended for public use 
shall be accessible to the disabled, 
as per the requirements of the 
international building code and the 
Americans with disabilities act. 
ADA access will be reviewed 
through the building permit 
process. There are sufficient ADA 
accessible parking spaces.  
COMPLIES 
Special Site Design Requirements No special site design requirements 
apply.  
COMPLIES 
Architectural Regulations for All 
Structures 
No changes are proposed.  COMPLIES 
Landscape Regulations No changes proposed. COMPLIES 
Lighting Regulations 
 
No changes proposed. COMPLIES 
Height Regulations 
                                                                     
No changes proposed. COMPLIES 
 
 
Standard 3: The use is not detrimental to public health, safety and welfare;  
 
Analysis: Staff finds no evidence that the proposed ADU will have a detrimental impact 
on the health, safety, and welfare of the community. The Summit County Building, 
Health, and Engineering Departments reviewed the project and did not raise any 
concerns. COMPLIES 
 
Standard 4: The use is appropriately located with respect to public facilities,  
   
Analysis: There are appropriate police and fire services, transportation facilities, and 
water and sewer infrastructure available to the site. COMPLIES 
 
Standard 5: The use is compatible with the existing neighborhood character and with the 
character and purpose provision of the applicable zoning district, and will not adversely affect 
surrounding land uses.  
 
Analysis: Section 10-8-5 of the Code states that ADUs are conditional uses within the SC 
Zone and are therefore compatible with the zone district. Similar proposals have been 
approved within the Development Agreement area. COMPLIES 
 
173
9 
 
Special CUP Standards: In addition to the standards established in this section and in chapter 4 
of [the Code] for particular uses, all conditional uses within a zoning district shall conform to 
the following standards and criteria: 
 
CODE REQUIREMENT ANALYSIS FINDING 
Escrow for Extraordinary Costs 
The commission may require the CUP 
applicant to establish or post a bond for 
infrastructure improvements, including 
any conditions of approval. 
The Summit County 
Engineering Department 
reviews bonds during the 
Building Permit review.  
COMPLIES 
No Reduction in Level of Services 
The proposed development shall not 
cause a reduction in the adopted level 
of service for any public facility. 
No public facilities will be 
negatively impacted by this 
proposal.  
COMPLIES 
Lighting See analysis under Standard 2 
table above. 
COMPLIES 
Preserve Topography, Soils, Critical 
Areas, etc. 
The natural topography, soils, critical 
areas, watercourses and vegetation 
shall be preserved whenever possible.  
No changes proposed.   COMPLIES 
Roads  
All roads shall provide free movement 
for safe an efficient use within a 
development. 
This proposal will not cause 
road congestion or create 
public safety problems. 
COMPLIES 
Vehicle and Pedestrian Passageways 
Vehicular and pedestrian passageways 
shall be separated from public rights of 
way. Pedestrian pathways shall be 
provided. 
No pedestrian pathways will be 
affected by the proposal. The 
proposal utilizes the existing 
road network within Altitude 
Loft.  
COMPLIES 
Scale of Buildings 
Buildings shall provide a human scale.  
No changes proposed.  COMPLIES 
Runoff 
Volume of post- development runoff 
shall not exceed pre-development 
runoff. 
No changes proposed.    COMPLIES 
Landscaping See analysis under Standard 2 
table above. 
COMPLIES 
 
Public Notice, Meetings and Comments  
Notice for a public hearing for this amendment to the Conditional Use Permit (CUP) was 
published in the Park Record and on public notice websites. Courtesy postcards were sent to all 
174
10 
 
property owners within 1,000 feet of the subject property. As of the date of this Staff Report, 
no public comment has been received. 
 
Recommendation 
Staff recommends that the Snyderville Basin Pl anning Commission (SBPC) review the proposed 
Conditional Use Permit, conduct a public hearing, and approve th e Conditional Use Permit for 
an Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) in Altitude Loft s Unit 3, pursuant to the following Findings of 
Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Conditions of Approval. 
    
Findings of Fact: 
1. On August 15, 2024, the applicant submitted a complete application for a Conditional 
Use Permit (CUP) application to construct an Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) within the 
third floor of Unit 3 of the Altitude Loft Condominiums.  
2. Unit 3 of the Altitude Loft Condominiums is owned by Altitude 3 LLC. Jamie Fraudenberg  
is the manager of the Altitude 3LLC and has signed the application form as the property 
owner.  
3. Unit 3 of the Altitude Loft Condominiums is considered Parcel ALTLC-3 and is located at 
4123 Forestdale Dr Unit #3. 
4. The Altitude Loft Condominiums were recorded on September 8, 2022 (Entry No. 
1194835) after two shell buildings (Buildings A and B) were approved through a Low 
Impact Permit on May 26, 2022 (File #21-178).  
5. Unit 3 is located within a shell building (Building A).  
6. The Altitude Loft Condominiums are subject to the Park City Business Center 
Development Agreement and associated Parking Management Plan (Entry No. 
1190794).  
7. The property is in the Service Commercial Zone and the Lower Silver Creek Soils Overlay 
Zone. 
8. Section 10-2-10 of the Snyderville Basin Development Code lists Accessory Dwelling 
Units (ADUs) as a Conditional Use within the Service Commercial Zone.  
9. Section 10-8-5 clarifies that ADUs shall be measured per the definition of Floor Area, 
which measures from the inside face of the perimeter wall to the inside face of the 
perimeter wall, including all wall partitions, mechanical rooms, hallways, and stairwells.  
10. The proposed ADU consists of 999 sf as measured per the definition of Floor Area.  
11. The proposal for Unit 3 will include space for garage on the ground floor, office space 
and conference room on the second floor, and an ADU on the third floor.  
12. The ADU will be accessed via a staircase from the second floor. Exhibit B includes the 
floor plans for this proposal.  
13. The Community Development Director determined that the staircase should not be 
counted toward the Floor Area for Unit 3 as the staircase also provides access to 
business space (Exhibit E).  
14. 
Only one ADU is proposed within the Unit 3.  
15. The proposed business that will occupy Unit 3 is Addison Holdings LLC., a personal 
financing business. Addison Holdings LLC has an existing Summit County Business 
License for a different location (Licencse #4497).  
175
11 
 
16. One full-time employee and two part-time employees are anticipated for the proposed 
business use.  
17. Parking for Altitude Loft Condominiums was approved in accordance with a Parking 
Management Agreement, which states that the Condominium Owner’s Association 
(COA) must review and attest to adequate parking for the uses proposed in each Unit 
prior to tenant improvements. The COA has provided a letter of attestation, attached as 
Exhibit D. 
18. Staff and service providers have reviewed the project and found that it complies, as 
conditioned, with all requirements of the Code and the Park City Business Center 
Development Agreement.  
 
Conclusions of Law:  
1. The use is in accordance with the Snyderville Basin General Plan. 
2. The use conforms to all applicable provisions of the Code, including, but not limited to, 
any applicable provisions of Section 10-3-5, Chapter 4, and state and federal regulations. 
3. The use is not detrimental to public health, safety, and welfare. 
4. The use is appropriately located with respect to public facilities. 
5. The use is compatible with the existing neighborhood character and with the purpose 
provisions of the applicable zone district and will not affect surrounding land uses. 
6. The use is in conforms to applicable provisions of the Park City Business Center 
Development Agreement.  
 
Conditions of Approval: 
1. The construction of the Accessory Dwelling Unit must be done in accordance with the 
plans included in Exhibit B. No modification to the Accessory Dwelling Unit is permitted 
without written approval from the Community Development Department and any 
relevant service providers.  
2. The third floor has been approved for residential use as an Accessory Dwelling Unit.  No 
additional portion of the unit may be used for residential purposes.   
3. At least one of the reserved parking spaces for Unit 3 must be reserved for the tenant of 
the Accessory Dwelling Unit.  
4. Verification of business operation and Business License must be submitted prior to the 
Certificate of Occupancy for the Accessory Dwelling Unit. 
5. A certificate of occupancy for the Accessory Dwelling Unit shall only be granted 
concurrent with or after the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the associated 
commercial use. The Accessory Dwelling Unit may not be occupied prior to the 
associated commercial use receiving all necessary permits and approvals from service 
providers.  
6. The Accessory Dwelling Unit may not be sold separately from the associated commercial 
use.  
7.
 The Accessory Dwelling Unit may not be rented by anyone without affiliation to the 
associated commercial use. At least one (1) resident of the Accessory Dwelling Unit 
must be either the owner or employee of the associated business.  
176
12 
8. Nightly or short-term rental of the Accessory Dwelling Unit is prohibited. The rental
term of the Accessory Dwelling Unit shall be no less than thirty (30) days.
9. Loading and unloading of materials related to the commercial use may not interfere
with traffic circulation.
10. Prior to building permit issuance for this tenant improvement project, all service
provider requirements shall be satisfied.
Attachments  
Exhibit A – Written Description 
Exhibit B – Proposed Plans 
Exhibit C – Parking Management Agreement 
Exhibit D – Condominium Owner’s Association Parking Attestation Letter  
Exhibit E – CDD Determination 
177
Application for Non-structural interior improvements of Altitude
Lofts Unit #3. 
Conditional Use permit for 1000 sq ft ADU on level 3.  
Floor one:  automotive and RV Storage. No commercial Use.
Under Low Impact Permit
Floor two:   owner will operate his "family desk" finance business
out of one office.  Three additional offices may be rented out to
other business/office functions (est. 4 people).  Hours of operatio
n
are 7am-5pm
Under Low Impact Permit
Floor three:  1000 sq ft ADU for private use of owners
family/friends.
Conditional Use Permit. 
There will be no sign on exterior of Unit
Snow removal is handled by the Altitude HOA (permitted under
Altitude Lofts)
Application for Non-structural interior improvements of Altitude Lofts
Unit #3
Conditional Use permit for 1000 sq ft ADU on level 3 - Accessory to
business (Addison Holdings LLC)
Floor One: automotive and RV storage (S-1). Non-commercial Use
Floor Two: owner will operate his business (Addison Holdings LLC)
out of the office space. Owner is full time employee + 2 part time
employees.  Hours of operation are 7am-5pm. 
Floor Three: 1000 sq ft ADU for private use by business
(owner/employess).
ADU is accessory to business. 
There will be no sign on exterior of the unit.
Snow removal is handles by the Altitude HOA (permitted under
Altitude Lofts).
Application for interior tenant improvement of Altitude Lofts Unit #3. 
Conditional Use Permit for 1000 sq ft ADU on level 3 - accessory to business (Addison Holdings LLC).
Floor One:
Owners Private Automotive and RV Storage (S-1). Non-commercial use
Floor Two:
Owner will operate his business (Addison Holdings LLC) out of the office space.  Owner is full time employee
+ 2 part time employees.  Hours of operation are 7am - 5pm. 
Floor Three: 
1000 sq ft ADU for private use by business (owner/employees)
ADU is accessory to business and only accessible by shared stair. 
Additional business occupancy
There will be no signage on the exterior of the unit. 
Snow removal is handled by the Altitude Lofts HOA (permitted under Altitude Lofts)
EXHIBIT A
178
5HIULJHUDWRU
$$
''
&&
%%









   
6WDLU

:
VTIW

$


0HFK

79
79
:'
%DWKURRP

%HGURRP

%HGURRP

%DWKURRP

Living/Kitchen

Shared Egress Lobby
301=Business Occupancy

&ORVHW

&ORVHW




D






:
 :

:

:

:

:
:

:
:


























































(4
(4
(4
(4
E


Window Tag-Refer To Window Schedule
Door Tag-Refer To Door Schedule
Room Name And Number-Refer To Room Finish 
6FKHGXOH
Spot Elevation Marker
/HJHQG
General Notes -Plan
1. Refer to Sheet G-002 for Architectural Notes.
2. Unless Noted Otherwise, Wall Dimensions are to Face of Stud and Face 
of Concrete/Cmu.
3.  Refer to Electrical, Mechanical & Plumbing Sheets for Aditional 
Information and Requirements.  
4.  See Structural Plans for Additional Information, Details and 
5HTXLUHPHQWV
5. Provide Blocking or other Approved Method for Support at All Locations 
of Tv. Outlets to Accommodate Mounting of Flat Panel Televisions. 
Coordinate with Interior Elevations and Electrical Plans.
6. Coordinate Kitchen Equipment and Layouts with Mechanical, Electrical & 
Plumbing Plans. Provide Required Blocking for Fixtures and Casework.
7. Coordinate Utility Connections with Civil Drawings.
W

Room name

Edge Of Roof Above
COPYRIGHT: 
OWNER PROJECT NO:
DRAWN BY:
CHECKED BY:
SHEET  TITLE
ISSUE DATE:
EWG PROJECT NO:
DESIGNED BY:
CONTRACT NO:
1441 West Ute Blvd, Suite 100
Park City, Utah 84098
RU
HOOLRWWZRUNJURXSFRP
ELLIOTT WORKGROUP LLC


Elliott Workgroup, LLC
Notice: This design development package is to be used in 
conjunction with the collective knowledge and expertise of 
the project team to further develop the project design, 
details and scope. Estimating and budgets should not be 
based solely on these documents. No bidding or 
construction should be based on these documents.
7/7/2025 11:53:30 AMAutodesk Docs://2024-09 Altitude Lofts/Altitude Lofts Unit 3.rvt

Altitude Lofts #3
4123 N Forestdale Unit 3
Park City, Utah 84098
$XWKRU
&KHFNHU
$
Floor Plan
'HVLJQHU

Jamie Frauenberg
Construction Documents
Rev.=Date=Description
 
-0"1=Level 3 -Floor Plan
 
 

EXHIBIT B
179
Recording Requested By and EN TR Y NO . 01190794
When Recorded Return to: 2 G
07 PM B: 2745 P: 0194
°ad"W% MATE ""®"°'"
Summit County
Attention:County Recorder
60 N Main Street
P.O. Box 128
Coalville,UT 84017
For Recording Purposes Do
Not Write Above This Line
PARKING MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT
(AltitudeLofts)
Summit County, Utah, a Utah politicalsubdivision,("County"), and Altitude Lofts, LLC,
a Utah limitedliabilitycompany ("Owner"), t intothisParking Management Agreement (this
"Agreement") as of this IW day of 2022, and agree as setforth below. The County
and the Owner arejointlyreferredto as the "Parties." Each partymay be referred to as a"Party."
RECITALS
WHEREAS, Owner has appliedfor a Low Impact Permit to develop Lot __ of the Park
City Business Center,4123 N. Forestdale Drive,more particularlydescribedin ExhibitA (the
"Property"),as an eleven (1l) unitcommercial condominium project ("Units"or individually,
"Unit");
WHEREAS, the Park City Business Center is govemed by restrictivecovenants,which
limit theallowed uses within the businesscenterto those thatdo not result in an excessive
demand for parking,do not resultin traffic orparking patternsthatobstructpedestrianor
vehicular access or obstructForestdaleDrive;
WHEREAS, despitethe Park City Business Center covenants,County isaware of
development and uses within the Park City Business Center that generatean excessivedemand
forparking compared to surfaceparking provided withinthe Property and that cause spillover
parking onto ForestdaleDrive;
WHEREAS, while County isnot a party to the Park City Business Center covenants and
has no abilityto enforce such covenants to prevent excessiveparking demand, even ifitwere a
party, County isnot staffedto enforce parking issuesthatspilloverfrom private property;
EXHIBIT C
180
WHEREAS, Owner has proposed an alternativeto the currentspilloverparking situation
in the Park City Business Center,by agreeingto self-regulateparking demand through the initial
and subsequent salesof Units with the Property and the management of parking therein,by
disclosingto each purchaser thatthe use of each Unit is substantiallyconstrainedby limited
parking allocated toeach Unit,by assigningspecificparking spaces to specificUnits,and by
contractinghereinto take the responsibilityto prescreenevery businessuse foritsparking
demand, in threeways: 1)priorto a Unit owner's applicationfora buildingpermit to construct
tenantimprovements associated with aunit,trackall uses withinthe Property and allocateand
enforce specificparking spaces for each use, such thatthe blended parking demand forall uses
within the Property does not exceed the number of surfaceparking spaces on the Property;2)
routinelymonitor the efficacyof parking management system; and 3) verifyto the County,
through a parking status lettersystem, akin to a "will-serve"letteror an HOA architectural
approval letter,thata particularapplicanthas sufficientparking within the Property priorto each
applicationfora buildingpermit fortenantimprovements, priorto each applicationfor a
businesslicense withinthe Property and at each annual business licenserenewal;
WHEREAS, County has agreed to refrainfrom issuinga buildingpermit or a business
license toany businesswithin the Property thatcannot show a parking statusapproval letter
dated within 30 days of the applicationand addressed to the County with itsbuildingpermit
application,its initialbusinesslicenseapplicationand ateach annual renewal of the business
license;
WHEREAS, on March 22, 2022, the Summit County Planning Commission
recommended that the County Manager approve the AltitudeLofts Condominium Project,
conditionedon Owner's willingnessto enterintothisAgreement.
NOW THEREFORE, the Partiesagree as follows:
L Owner Responsibilities.
1.1 Disclosureof Limited Business-Related Parking.Owner shall disclose,and shall
cause the continuous disclosureto allsubsequent purchasers,thatbusinessuses within
the Property are:
1.1.1 restrictedto only those uses thatare allowed by allcovenants thatburden the
Property and are allowed by the County;
1.1.2limited tobusinessuses with parking demand thatdo not exceed the parking
allocatedto the Unit through ownership or lease,and confirmed by the Board of
Directors ofthe AltitudeLofts Condominium Owner's Association ("Board");
and
1.1 3 requiredto obtaina parking consent letterfrom the Board priorto
applicationfora buildingpermit fortenantimprovements within the Property,
priorto applicationfora business license to theCounty, and priorto each annual
renewal of a businesslicense;
1.2Regulate Uses to Ensure Adequate Surface Parking. Owner shallimplement,
monitor, and enforce a surfaceparking management system to ensure thatthe blended use
2
181
of surfaceparking space over any eight-hour shiftdoes not exceed the surface parking
supply on the Property.
1.3.Warrant Parking Allocationto County. For each applicationfor tenant
improvements fora business use,and foreach applicationfora business license withina
Unit of the Property,the Board shall evaluatethe proposed business,the legallyallocated
parking forthatbusiness,and the minimum County-required surfaceparking forthat
business.
1.3.1 Based on an applicant'sownership, or long term lease,of specificsurface
parking spaces within the Property,and based on the Board's assessment of
surfaceparking use within the Property,the Board will certifyto the County
whether the applicanthas secured suf6cientparking within theProperty to
accommodate that business.
1.3.2 Inadditionto specificcovenants thatprohibit specificuses and uses in
generalprohibitedcategories,Owner has burdened the Property with the
following covenant:
Business License Authorization/Limitationson Parking Demand. Parking is
limitedwithin theProperty and within the Park City Business Center. As such,
many businessuses willnot be appropriatewithin the Property. To prevent the
use of a Unit thatwould create an inappropriatedemand on parking within the
Property,or thatwould lead to spilloverparking within the Park City Business
Center,each Owner must requesta letterof approval of itsspecificbusinessuse
from the Board of Directorspriorto applying to Summit County fora building
permit forbusiness-relatedimprovements or for a businesslicenseto operatethat
businesson the Property. The Board of Directors willclosely regulate requests
for approval of businesses/business-relatedimprovements within theProperty and
foreach applicationwillrequestthe minimum parking requirement from the
County for each 8-hour shiftthe businessproposes to operateeach day. Once the
Board of Directorsreceivestheminimum parking requirement from the County
the Board will then requireproof of ownership, or a long-term leaseor leases,for
allparking spaces the County willrequireto support a business-relatedparking
demand. Each Unit has been allocated two (2)or more surface parking spaces in
designatedLimited Common Area. An Owner may enterintoa long-term lease
with another Unit Owner for additionalsurfaceparking spaces,which have been
allocated tothatUnit Owner, but are not requiredforthatUnit Owner's use.
Each Owner's business license isvalidfor one calendaryear. Because business-
relatedparking demand can change over time,each Unit Owner with a business
must requesta new letterof approval of the businessparking from the Board each
year. The Board, in its solediscretion,may deny issuingan initialor subsequent
annual approval letterbased on severalfactors,includingwhether the: (1)
business isan allowed use under the applicablecovenants and restrictions;(2)
County's analysisof minimum requiredparking forthe businessexceeds the
number of spaces within the Property thatare owned or leasedby the Owner's
business;or (3)Board's experience with the parking demand actually generated
by the businessleadsthe Board to believethatthe businessgeneratesmore
3
182
parking demand than parking spaces actuallyallocated to the businessOwner by
ownership or lease.
2. County Responsibilities.
2.1 Minimum Parking Requirement. Upon the Board request, County shallprovide the
Board with an estimated minimum parking demand fora specificbusiness use.
2.2 Conditioned Approval of Building Permit for Tenant Improvements and Business
License.County shall refrainfrom issuinga buildingpermit fortenant(or owner's
business-related)improvements and from issuinga businesslicense on the Propertyuntil
it hasreceiveda letterfrom the Board, verifyingthatthereissufficientparking available
forthatbusinesson the Property,during the expected businesshours.
2.3 Notice. If County determines thatthe parking management system established
hereinisfailingto achieve the County's objectiveto prevent spilloverparking from the
Property,County shall informthe Board of its concern and shallprovide the Board a
minimum of 30 days to assessthe cause of the problem and attempt to cure the spillover
parking demand.
2.4 Enforcement. If County issuesbusinesslicensesto businesseson the Property after
firstobtaininga parking verificationletterforthe businessfrom the Board, but,ifafter
proper noticethe County determines thatthe combined uses of the Propertyresultin
spilloverparking,the County may specifically enforce thisagreement and may withhold
allfuturebusinesslicenses forOwner's tenantsin the Park City Business Center,
includingannual business licenserenewals,until theCounty determines the parking
spilloverstatus of theProperty has been resolved.
3. Term of thisAgreement. The obligationsof the Partiesof under thisAgreement shalltake effect
as of the dateof thisAgreement, shallrun with the land,shall bind allsubsequent owners, and
shallcontinueinfullforceand effectuntilallobligationshereunder have been fully performed
and allrightshereunder fullyexercised.Unless the Partiesmutually agree to extend the term
by writtenagreement, thisAgreement shallnot extend beyond a period of fifty (50) years
from its date ofrecordation in the officeof the Summit County Recorder.
4. General Provisions.
4.1 Notices.All Notices,filings,consents,approvals,and othercommunication provided for
herein or given in connection herewith shallbe validlygiven,filed,made, deliveredor
served ifinwritingand delivered personallyor sentby registeredor certifiedU.S. Postal
Service mail, returnreceipt requested,postage prepaid to the addresses noted below or
to such other addresses as eitherParty may from time to time designatein writingand
deliver in likemanner. Any such change of address shall begiven atleast10 days before
the date on which the change isto become effective:
Ifto County: ATTN: Summit County Recorder
60 N Main Street
P.O. Box 128
Coalville,UT 84017
4
183
Ifto Owner: ATTN: Scott Yancey
4554 ForestdaleDr
D-25
Park City UT 84098
4.2 Mailing Effective.Notices given by mail shall be deemed deliveredseventy-two 72
hours following depositwith the U.S. PostalService in the manner setforthabove.
4.3 No Waiver. Any Party'sfailureto enforce any provision of thisAgreement shallnot
constitutea waiver of the rightto enforce any otherprovision.The provisionsmay be
waived only in writingby the Party intended to be benefitedby the provisions,and a
waiver by a Party of a breach hereunder by the other Party shall not be construed as a
waiver of any succeeding breach of the same or other provisions.Only the County
Council may waive the County's rightto enforce.
4.4 Headings. The descriptiveheadings of the paragraphs of thisAgreement are inserted
forconvenience only and shall not control or affectthe meaning or constructionof any
provisionof thisAgreement.
4.5 Authority.The Partiesrepresentto one another thatthey have fullpower and authority
to enterintothisAgreement, and thatallnecessary actions havebeen taken to give full
forceand effectto thisAgreement.
4.6 Entire Agreement. This Agreement, including itsexhibits toand allother documents
referred to in thisAgreement, containsthe entireagreement of the Parties withrespect
to the subject matter hereof and supersede any prior promises, representations,
warranties,inducements, or understandingsbetween the Partieswhich arenot contained
in such agreements, regulatoryapprovals,and relatedconditions.
4.7 Amendment. This Agreement may be amended in whole or in partwith respectto all or
any portion of the Property by the mutual written consent of the Partiesto this
Agreement.
4.8 Severability.Ifany provision of thisAgreement isdeclaredvoid or unenforceable,such
provisionshall besevered from thisAgreement. This Agreement shall otherwiseremain
in fullforce and effectprovided the fundamental purpose of this Agreement and the
Owner's abilityto complete the development of the Property is not defeated by such
severance.
4.9 Governing Law. The laws of the Stateof Utah and the laws of the County approved as
of the date of this Agreement shallgovern the interpretationand enforcement of the
Agreement. The Partiesagree thatthe venue for any actioncommenced in connection
with thisAgreement shall beproper only in a court of competent jurisdictionlocatedin
Summit County, Utah. The Parties hereby expressly waive any right to objectto such
choice of law or venue.
4.10 Default.
i. Ifany Party failsto perform itsrespectiveobligationshereunder or to comply
5
184
with the terms hereof,the Party believingthata defaulthas occurred shall
provide noticeto the otherParty as provided herein(a "Notice of Default").
Ifa Partybelieves that thedefault has been committed by anotherParty,shall
also provide a courtesy copy of the notice to each affectedParty. Each
Notice of Default shall:
(1) Specifytheclaimed event of defaultby identifyingwith particularity
specificprovisionsof thisAgreement, and any applicable law, rule,
or regulationthatthe Party isclaimed to be in default;
(2) Identifywhy the default isclaimed to be material;and
(3) Ifa Party chooses, in itsdiscretion,propose a method and time for
curing the default,which shallbe of no less than thirty (30) days
duration.
ii. Upon the issuanceof a Notice of Default,all interestedParties shall have the
opportunity to meet within twenty (20) business days and confer in an
attempt to resolve the issues thatare the subject matter of the Notice of
Default.
4.11 Remedies. If,aftermeeting and conferring,the interestedPartiesare not able to resolve
an allegeddefault,then the Partiesmay pursue any of the following remedies:
i. The rightsand remedies available at law and in equity,including,but not
limited toinjunctiverelief,specificperformance, and termination;and
ii. The rightto withhold all furtherlicenses for use of the Projectuntilsuch
default iscured.
4.12 Extended Cure Period. If any defaultcannot be reasonably cured within thirty(30)
days of Notice of Default,then such cure period may be extended as needed, by written
agreement of the Parties and forgood cause shown, so long as the non-defaulting Party
determines the defaulting Partyispursuing a cure with reasonablediligence.
4.13 Cumulative Rights. The rightsand remedies setforthhereinare cumulative.
4.14 Force Majeure. All time periodsimposed or permittedpursuant to thisAgreement shall
automaticallybe extended and tolledfor:(a)period of any and all moratoriaimposed
by the County or other governmental authoritiesin any respect thatmateriallyaffects
the development of the ProjectArea; or (b)by eventsreasonably beyond the control of
Owner including,without limitation,inclement weather, war, strikes,unavailabilityof
essentialmaterials atcommercially reasonableprices,and actsof God, but which does
not includefinancialconditionof Owner, or itssuccessorsin interest.Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the Project Area shall be excluded from any moratorium adopted
pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. §l0-9a-504 unless such a moratorium is found on the
record by the County Council to be necessary to avoid jeopardizing a compelling,
countervailingpublic interest.
6
185
4.15 Attorneys' Fees and Costs.Ifany Party brings legal actioneitherbecause of a breach
of the Agreement or to enforce a provisionof the Agreement, the prevailing Partyshall
be entitled toreasonableattorneys'feesand court costs,includingthe costof in-house
counsel.
4.16 Binding Effect. Thebenefitsand burdens of thisAgreement touch and concern the land,
run with the Property,and are realcovenants and equitableservitudeson the Property
and shall bebinding upon and shall inureto thebenefit of each of the Parties andtheir
respective heirs, legal representatives,successors in interest,and assigns. This
Agreement shall be incorporatedby referencein any instrumentpurportingto convey
an interest in theProperty.
4.17 No Third-PartyRights.The obligationsof the signatoriesof thisAgreement, shallnot
createany rightsin,or obligationsto,any thirdparties,except as specifically provided
herein.
4.18 No Agency Created.Nothing contained
inthe Agreement shall createany partnership,
jointventure,or agency relationshipbetween the combined Parties.
4.19 Non-Liabilityof County Officialsor Employees. No officer,representative, agent,or
employee of the County shallbe personally liableto Owner, or any successor-in-
interest orassigneeof Owner, in the event of any default or breach by the County for
any obligationarisingout of the terms of thisAgreement.
4.20 Public Information.The Parties understand and agree thatall documents related tothis
agreement willbe publicdocuments, as provided in UTAH CODE ANN. § 63G-2-101, et
seq.
4.21 Counterparts.This Agreement may be executed in multiplecounterpartswhich
shall constituteone and the same document.
Review. This Agreement shallbe reviewed by the Partiesevery two (2)years.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties haveexecuted thisAgreement as of the Effective
Date, thisAgreement having been approved by the Summit County pursuant to the Ordinance
authorizingsuch execution,and by a duly authorizedrepresentativeof by Owner.
For: SUMMIT COUNTY, a Utah municipal corporation
Tom Fisher,Manager
For: ALTITUDE Utah limitedliabilitycompany
SeetM¼neey, Manag
7
186
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
STATE OF UTAH )
:ss.
County of Summit )
On this1 day of 022, before the undersigned notary public in and for the said
state,personallyappeared Tom Fisher,known or identifiedto me to be the County Manager of
Summit County, and Rhonda Francis,the Official Recorder of Summit County, and the persons
who executed the foregoing instrumenton behalf of saidCounty and acknowledged to me thatsaid
County executed the same.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto se my hand and sealthe day and year first
above written.
®
unvyenæ-smecuma No ary Pi forUtah
Comm. #710848
MyCommbskmExpims
FebmaryN, 2024
8
187
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
STATE OF UTAH )
:ss.
County of Summit )
On this $ day of®tpy 2022, before the undersigned notary public in and for t said
state,personally appearedb ,known or identified to me to be the mana de
Lofts LLC, a Utah limited liabilitycompany, and the person who executed foregoing
instrumentand acknowledged to me thatsaid company executed the same.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and sealthe day and year first
above written.
MackenRocNin
NotmyPublic,StsteofUtah
commission#71757° NOTARY PUBLICuycesW Esa
ApriE2025
9
188
EXHIBIT A
Property Description
Lot 2, Park City Business Center Subdivision 03 CL
10
189
Altitude Lofts Condominium Association
PO Box 1060
Park City, UT  84060
312.806.3437
September 2, 2024 
Summit County: 
The COA for Altitude Lofts has reviewed the business case for Unit 3, Altitude 3 LLC, and confirmed their 
use meets the parking restrictions for Altitude Lofts.   We attest they will be able to satisfy their 
employee parking with their four (4) designated outdoor parking spaces.
If you have any questions, please contact me at the number at the top of the letterhead.
Thank you,
Jonathan Taylor
President of Altitude Lofts Condominium Association
jon@blitzcapitalgroup.com
Jonathan Taylor
EXHIBIT D
190
From: Guinan, Molly
To: Peter Barnes
Cc: Jennifer Leslie; Richard Butz; Laura Kuhrmeyer
Subject: Re: Altitude Lofts Unit 3 updated plan
Date: Thursday, February 27, 2025 9:26:59 PM
On Thu, Feb 27, 2025, 5:08 PM Peter Barnes <
pbarnes@summitcountyutah.gov> wrote:
Molly
I promised to get you something, and yet find myself running out of time again. To be fair to
you I think I can agree that in principal we can find an agreement on this approach. I am will
to accept that the second set of stairs are a requirement of of the commercial space on the
third floor and thus cannot be considered for private use of the ADU. Consequently I would
not include the floor area of the stair as being ‘within’ the unit. I will however need a
mechanical room, as you previously suggested within the unit, or even if remote it needs to
be counted against the maximum allowable SF. Please make sure that with any final
revisions the FA is clearly and demonstrably below the 1000 SF maximum with all necessary
inclusions, not including the stair per the above.  
I have not checked with building but for now I am assuming they are more comfortable with
the two stair approach. I am happy to talk further if you wish, tomorrow should be a lot
quieter with only one scheduled meeting, coincidentally with Craig and Carla from your
office.
Regards     
Peter Barnes
Community Development Director.
EXHIBIT E
191
Community Development Department
P.O. Box 128
60 North Main Street
Coalville, Utah 84017
summitcounty.org 
STAFF REPORT
To:   Snyderville Basin Planning Commission   
From:   Jennifer Leslie, County Planner
Date of Meeting: August 26, 2025
Date of Report: August 20, 2025
Type of Item:  Low Impact Permit - Public He aring, Possible Recommendation 
Process:  Administrative Review
File #:   25-127
Proposal 
The applicant proposes to construct a 5,322 sf office building on Lot 9 on the Quarry Junction at 
Pinebrook Subdivision. The building will be a 27’ commercial shell with two units. The uses of 
each unit may vary with future tenants, but must comply with the approved uses in the 
Gorgoza Pines Consent Agreement. 
Project Description
Project Name:    Quarry Village  Lot 9 Commercial Shell Building
Applicant(s):    Chad Bollman, J. Ford Construction
Property Owner(s):   RJ Ford Properties LLC
Location:    3246 Santa Fe Road
Zone District:     Rural Residential (RR)
Parcel Number and Size:   QJPB-A-9-1AM (0.57 acres)
Type of Process:   Administrative
Final Land Use Authority:  Co mmunity Development Director
Vicinity Map
192
2 
 
Background 
The Quarry Junction at Pinebrook Subdivision was approved on May 21, 2004 and consists of 
eleven lots. The subdivision was created in accordance with the Gorgoza Pines Consent 
Agreement, which was approved by the Summit County Board of Commissioners on February 
24, 1997. The subdivision was approved for approximately 170,000 square feet of commercial 
density. Several buildings in the subdivision have been constructed or permits have been 
approved. The Quarry Village project was a master planned project and all infrastructure, 
including parking, was constructed when the project was approved.  
 
The Quarry Junction at Pinebrook Subdivision designates maximum gross square footages and 
maximum gross building footprints for each lot. Lot 9 is allowed 5,462 square feet of max gross 
building area and 5,462 sf of max gross building footprint. The proposed square footage is 5,322 
sf with a 5,322 sf footprint. The building will be approximately 27’ at the tallest point. 
 
There is a plat note that states that Lot 9 shall be limited to a single level structure. The 
proposed building on Lot 9 is one-story with a small mezzanine level within the attic trusses 
that will be used for storage. According to the International Building Code (IBC) Section 505.2: 
Mezzanines, the proposed mezzanine should be considered part of the ground-level. The 
proposed mezzanine will be reviewed in more detail during Building Permit review, but Staff 
proposes a Condition of Approval to clarify that the mezzanine shall not provide additional 
retail/business space. The IBC Code is quoted below:   
 
“A mezzanine or mezzanines in compliance with Section 505.2 shall be considered a 
portion of the story below. Such mezzanines shall not contribute to either the building 
area or number of stories as regulated by Section 503.1. The clear height above and 
below the mezzanine floor construction shall be not less than 7 feet (2134 mm).” 
 
In 2003, there was an amendment approved to the Quarry Junction at Pinebrook Subdivision 
plat. A condition of approval stated, “The Low Impact Permit application for the various pads 
and buildings will be brought before the Planning Commission for input and recommendation 
to the planning director prior to their construction.” 
 
Staff and service providers reviewed the application and found that, as conditioned, the project 
complies with all applicable standards.  
 
Analysis and Findings 
Low Impact Permit Review 
Section 10-3-4 of the Code contains standards of approval for Low Impact Permits. Staff has not 
separately addressed these standards because if the requirements in the Agreement are 
satisfied (refer to the Consent Agreement Compliance section below), then the Low Impact 
Permit standards are also being satisfied. 
 
Consent Agreement Compliance 
193
3 
 
The Quarry Junction at Pinebrook Subdivision is governed by the Gorgoza Pines Consent 
Agreement. The following development standards are identified in the Consent Agreement and 
are applicable to Lot 9. 
 
Densities and Uses: The uses and densities… shall be in accordance with the Consent 
Agreement. Parcels A and B as shown in the Consent Agreement are intended for a variety of 
retail commercial, service commercial, office uses or single or multiple family dwelling units. 
 
Analysis: Tenants have not been decided for the proposed building, and will function as 
a shell structure. Individual business licenses for future uses will be issued pursuant to 
the allowed uses identified in the Consent Agreement. The square footage limitations 
identified on the subdivision plat are being met – the proposed building footprint is 
5,322 square feet. COMPLIES AS CONDITIONED 
 
Setbacks: To the extent that standard setbacks cannot be met within a development, by virtue 
of such approved densities and uses, such setback requirements shall be waived or relaxed as 
long as the County reasonably determines that public safety, health, and welfare concerns can 
be adequately satisfied. 
 
Analysis: The required setbacks in the RR zone are fifty-five (55) feet from the centerline 
of the road (where property line extends to the road) and twelve (12) feet from the side 
and rear property lines. The proposed approximate setbacks are: 
Front (SW) Side (NW) Side (SE) Rear (NE) 
41’ 18’ 38’ 68’ 
 
The proposed setbacks place the structure within the established parking areas. Service 
providers, including the Park City Fire Department and Summit County Engineering 
Department, have reviewed the proposal did not raise public health, safety, or welfare 
concerns. COMPLIES AS CONDITIONED 
 
Landscaping: Landscaping and maintenance requirements shall be in accordance with Summit 
County ordinances. 
 
Analysis: The applicant is proposing landscaping that includes trees, shrubs, and 
perennials. There is existing turf onsite that the applicant proposes to maintain. 
COMPLIES 
 
Parking: Consideration should be given to limiting such parking surface area to the extent 
reasonably possible. Solutions such as on street parking and joint use parking facilities shall be 
considered. 
 
Analysis: The parking for the Quarry Junction project was completed prior to 
development of individual lots. Summit County has a maximum parking requirement 
rather than a minimum for commercial space. There are thirty (30) existing parking stalls 
194
4 
 
contained on the property, three (3) of which are ADA. Quarry Village has historically 
used shared parking. Staff has not recorded any complaints regarding parking conflicts. 
The parking being provided is considered adequate. COMPLIES 
 
Plazas: A number of smaller plazas… are encouraged fo r each specific development as it occurs. 
This could include play areas, sitting areas, or simply pleasant areas to congregate. 
 
Analysis: There are no plazas, play areas, or sitting areas proposed on Lot 9. There are 
sufficient public areas within the development.  COMPLIES 
 
Scale: Commercial development within the Project shall be of a scale that is typical of a 
traditional town. There may be locations for anchor tenants, together with significant space for 
smaller scale users. 
 
Analysis: The anchor tenant in the Quarry Junction project is the existing grocery store. 
The applicant has stated that the intent of the proposed building is to provide spaces to 
accommodate retail and office uses, which would be considered “smaller scale users”.  
The proposed scale of the building compliments existing structures within the 
subdivision. The building includes façade shifts and height changes.  COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
Building Heights: Generally building heights will be restricted to two (2) stories. A third story is 
allowed so long as it occurs within the area formed by a pitched roof on the two (2) story 
structure where approved by Summit County. The Gorgoza Pines Consent Agreement allows 
heights to be up to 35 feet above natural or finished grade, whichever is lower. 
 
Analysis: A plat note on the Quarry Junction at Pinebrook Subdivision states that 
structures on Lot 9 are limited to one story. There is not a maximum height assigned for 
one-story structures on the subdivision plat, nor in the Gorgoza Pines Agreement. The 
proposed height of the building is approximately 27’ at the highest point. COMPLIES 
 
Signage and Lighting: Outdoor signs and lighting shall be in accordance with Summit County 
ordinances. 
 
Analysis: There is an existing elevated parking lot light onsite. Four types of building 
mounted lights are proposed. The proposed lighting is fully shielded and directs the light 
downward. The Snyderville Basin Development Code states that the maximum outdoor 
light output for commercial uses cannot exceed 100,000 lumens per acre. Lot 9 is 0.57 
acres, so the maximum output may be 57,000 lumens. The total lighting output, 
including the parking lot light, is 25,625 lumens. Staff has included conditions of 
approval to limit the temperature and brightness of each exterior fixture. Signs are 
processed through a building permit application and will be reviewed for compliance 
with applicable standards at the time a complete building permit application is received.  
COMPLIES AS CONDITIONED 
195
5 
 
 
Architecture: Buildings should be designed to invite public comprehension and reflect their 
function or use. Access, when necessary, should be easily discernible and obvious without the 
necessity of excessive signage. Facades should be scaled to and designed to accommodate use 
by humans. Vehicular and equipment structure design should mask the scale of their use. 
Decorative elements may be used to enhance, but should not suggest cosmetic treatment. 
 
Analysis: The proposed building will include various shades of gray and neutral finishes 
including metal roofing, plank and lap siding, and bricks. Windows, doors, and awnings 
will have black steel finishes. There is existing power and communication boxes on-site. 
A 9’ x 9’ transformer pad is proposed near the existing utility infrastructure to 
accommodate a transformer box that Rocky Mountain Power wants to put on-site 
within the ROW for Santa Fe Rd, which is managed by the Quarry Village HOA. The HOA 
has confirmed that the location of the transformer box is acceptable within their ROW.  
The pad will be semi-shielded by proposed trees as seen in the landscaping plan 
included in Exhibit B. The applicant has confirmed that there will not be any façade 
mechanical equipment proposed on the building. Staff have also included conditions of 
approval that prohibits façade mechanical equipment and that if any is proposed that a 
Low Impact Permit Amendment would be required to ensure proper screening. 
COMPLIES AS CONDITIONED 
 
 
Snyderville Basin Development Code Standards 
All developments shall comply with the standards found in Chapter 4 of the Code. However, the 
Agreement separately addresses certain standards, as identified above. Below are only those 
items that are not addressed in the Agreement. 
  
 
Code Requirement Analysis Finding 
Environmental Criteria 
*Air Quality 
*Water Quality 
*Watershed Protection 
*Erosion Protection 
*Wildlife Habitat 
The proposal does not have 
significant or negative impacts to 
the air, water or watershed quality 
in the Snyderville Basin. The 
proposed uses and design will not 
negatively impact the well and well 
protection area. The site is a master 
planned site and additional wildlife 
habitat impact is not anticipated. 
COMPLIES 
Critical Lands 
*Wetlands 
*Slopes Exceeding 30% 
*Ridgelines 
*Avalanche Zones 
*Geologic Hazards 
The proposal will not encroach into 
any wetlands, slopes in excess of 
30%, ridgelines, avalanche zones, or 
geologic hazard areas.  
COMPLIES 
196
6 
 
Open Space Planned open space was included in 
the Gorgoza Pines Consent 
Agreement and is not a requirement 
for this proposal.   
COMPLIES 
Water and Water Supply 
A willing to serve letter is required 
prior to Development Permit 
approval.  
The Gorgoza Water Company has 
confirmed service or the property.  
COMPLIES 
Sanitary Sewer 
A line extension agreement must 
be accepted by SBWRD prior to 
development permit approval 
The Snyderville Basin Water 
Reclamation District services the 
area and has no concerns with the 
proposal.   
COMPLIES 
Fire Protection 
Ability to serve a development to 
provide fire protection shall be 
provided, in writing, for all 
developments. 
The Park City Fire District services 
the area. PCFD did not raise 
concerns regarding the proposal.  
COMPLIES 
Loading and Unloading 
Applicant shall demonstrate 
adequate loading and unloading 
space is available within the 
development. 
The applicant has not delineated 
any loading and unloading areas. 
Staff has included conditions of 
approval which prohibit large-truck 
deliveries. Any proposed large truck 
deliveries will require an 
amendment to the permit and 
associated plans to accommodate 
for a loading and unloading area. 
The applicant has also confirmed 
that they will include the 
prohibition of large-truck deliveries 
into their lease agreements as well. 
COMPLIES 
Parking Lot Snow Storage 
Uncovered parking lots shall 
provide snow storage equal to 
10% of the uncovered parking lot 
surface. 
Snow storage areas for the 
subdivision have been previously 
identified. This proposal is not in 
conflict with those storage areas.  
The parking lots in the development 
are intended to be shared among 
the various tenants and snow 
removal occurs throughout 
the development. The roads and 
parking lots are private and will be 
maintained by the existing 
Homeowner’s Association, which 
includes the removal of snow.       
COMPLIES 
197
7 
 
Transportation Infrastructure and 
Access Design 
The existing ingress/egress point for 
the property is off Santa Fe Rd.  
COMPLIES 
Public Utilities 
A letter shall be obtained from the 
public utility companies that will 
provide service to the 
development. 
Utility providers have reviewed the 
proposed plans and did not raise 
any concerns. Rocky Mountain 
Power will be placing a transformer 
box on-site within the ROW for 
Santa Fe Rd, which is managed by 
the Quarry Village HOA. The HOA 
has confirmed that the location of 
the transformer box is acceptable 
within their ROW.  
COMPLIES 
Mail Delivery 
Locations for mail delivery should 
be shown on the final site plan 
and written approval from the 
postmaster.  
The applicant received confirmation 
from the postmaster to add 
mailboxes to an existing, shared 
mailbox within the Quarry Junction 
area. No final site plan is required.  
COMPLIES 
Solid Waste and Recycling 
Garbage and Recycling Containers 
need to be located within a 
completely enclosed structure.  
There are existing garbage facilities 
located within 150’ of the proposed 
building.  
COMPLIES 
Police and Security 
 
Police have existing, sufficient 
access to the Quarry Junction area.  
COMPLIES 
Parks, Trails, and Trailheads 
All development shall provide 
neighborhood park facilities in a 
manner that is sufficient to meet 
the specific recreational demands 
generated by the development. 
No new recreational demand is 
being generated by this proposal. 
Parks, trails, and open space were 
planned in the Gorgoza Pines 
Consent Agreement.   
COMPLIES 
ADA Access 
All building intended for public use 
shall be accessible to the disabled, 
as per the requirements of the 
international building code and the 
Americans with disabilities act. 
There is adequate ADA parking 
within the subdivision. Because the 
building is only one story, there is 
adequate ground floor access. 
Thorough ADA review will take 
place during Building Permit review.  
COMPLIES 
Special Site Design Requirements 
Intersecting Streets And Clear 
Visibility  
 
Front, Side And Rear Yards: Every 
part of the required front, side or 
rear yard shall be open and 
unobstructed by any above grade 
Lot 9 is a corner lot. The applicant 
submitted site triangle information. 
The Summit County Engineering 
Department did not raise any 
concerns regarding visibility from 
roads because of this proposed 
development.  
The only items within the front, 
COMPLIES 
198
8 
 
object or portion of the structure. 
 
side, or rear yards is the Rocky 
Mountain Power power box. 
Utilities are exempt from setback 
restrictions. Setbacks for this lot can 
also be determined by the proposal.   
 
The Snyderville Basin General Plan future land use map identifies Quarry Village as Mixed-Use 
Neighborhood Commercial. 
 
Public Notice, Meetings and Comments  
This application was publicly noticed as a public hearing with possible recommendation by the 
SBPC. Notice was physically posted and published online prior to the meeting. Courtesy 
postcards were mailed to property owners within 1000’ of the subject property. The item was 
published in the Park Record.  
 
As of the date of this report, no public comment was received by Staff.  
 
Recommendation 
Staff recommends that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission review the proposed Low 
Impact Permit, conduct a public hearing, and make a positive recommendation to the 
Community Development Director to approve the application pursuant to the following 
Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Conditions of Approval. 
 
Findings of Fact: 
1. On July 22, 2025, the Summit County Community Development Department received a 
complete application for a Low Impact Permit on Parcel QJPB-A-9-1AM.  
2. Parcel QJPB-A-9-1AM is considered Lot 9 of the Quarry Junction at Pinebrook Plat A 
Subdivision, which was recorded on May 21, 2004. 
3. The Quarry Junction at Pinebrook Plat A Subdivision is part of the Gorgoza Pines 
Consent Agreement, which was adopted via Ordinance 306 on February 24, 1997.  
4. Parcel QJPB-A-9-1AM (the property) is 0.57 acres. The property is owned by RJ Ford 
Properties LLC. John Ford signed the application form.  
5. In 2003, there was an amendment approved to the Quarry Junction at Pinebrook 
Subdivision plat. A condition of approval stated, “The Low Impact Permit application for 
the various pads and buildings will be brought before the Planning Commission for input 
and recommendation to the planning director prior to their construction.” 
6. The intent of this application is to permit a commercial shell building on the property.  
7. The Quarry Junction at Pinebrook Subdivision designates maximum gross square 
footages and maximum gross building footprints for each lot. Lot 9 is allowed 5,462 
square feet of max gross building area and 5,462 square feet of max gross building 
footprint. There is a plat note that states that Lot 9 shall be limited to a single level 
structure. 
8. The proposed square footage is 5,322 sf. The proposed footprint is 5,322 sf.  
199
9 
 
9. The proposed building on Lot 9 is one-story and will have two tenant spaces. 
10. Individual business licenses for future uses will be issued pursuant to the allowed uses 
identified in the Consent Agreement. 
11. The proposed setbacks for the building are as follows: Front (southwest) = 24’, 
Northwest side = 18’, Southeast side = 38’, Rear = 68’.  
12. The proposed height of the building is 27’. 
13. The proposed scale of the building compliments existing structures within the 
subdivision. The building includes façade shifts and height changes. 
14. The Snyderville Basin Development Code states that the maximum outdoor light output 
for commercial uses cannot exceed 100,000 lumens per acre. Lot 9 is 0.57 acres, so the 
maximum output may be 57,000 lumens. The total lighting output, including the parking 
lot light, is 25,625 lumens. 
15. Signs are processed through a building permit application and will be reviewed for 
compliance with applicable standards at the time a complete building permit application 
is received.   
16. The parking for the Quarry Junction project was completed prior to development of 
individual lots. There are thirty (30) existing parking stalls contained on the property, 
three (3) of which are ADA. Quarry Village has historically used shared parking.  
17. There are no plazas, play areas, or sitting areas proposed on Lot 9. There are sufficient 
public areas within the development.   
18. The anchor tenant in the Quarry Junction project is the existing grocery store. 
19. The proposed building will include various shades of gray and neutral finishes including 
metal roofing, plank and lap siding, and bricks. Windows, doors, and awnings will have 
black steel finishes.  
20. A 9’ x 9’ transformer pad is proposed near the existing utility infrastructure and is semi-
screened by trees and landscaping. The pad will be semi-shielded by proposed trees as 
seen in the landscaping plan. There will not be any façade mechanical equipment.  
21. The proposal will not encroach into any wetlands, slopes in excess of 30%, ridgelines, 
avalanche zones, or geologic hazard areas. 
22. The Gorgoza Water Company has confirmed service or the property. 
23. The Snyderville Basin Water Reclamation District has confirmed that they will be able to 
serve the project and have no concerns. 
24. There will not be any large truck deliveries that affect loading or unloading.  
25. The parking lots in the development are intended to be shared among the various 
tenants and snow removal occurs throughout the development. The roads and parking 
lots are private and will be maintained by the existing Homeowner’s Association, which 
includes the removal of snow.       
26. The existing ingress/egress point for the property is off of Santa Fe Rd. 
27. There are existing mailboxes and solid waste/recycling facilities for the proposed 
building.  
28. The proposed building will not affect site triangles or visibility along Santa Fe Rd and W 
Pinebrook Blvd.  
29. Staff and service providers reviewed the proposal.  
 
200
10 
 
Conclusions of Law:  
1. The use is in accordance with the general plan. 
2. The use conforms to all applicable provisions of the Code, including, but not limited to, 
any applicable provisions of Section 10-3-5, Chapter 4, and state and federal regulations. 
3. The use is not detrimental to public health, safety, and welfare. 
4. The use is appropriately located with respect to public facilities. 
5. The use is compatible with the existing neighborhood character and with the purpose 
provisions of the applicable zone district, and will not affect surrounding land uses. 
 
Conditions of Approval: 
1. The proposed mezzanine shall not provide any additional retail or business space. The 
mezzanine shall be used for storage or similar uses that are inaccessible to customers of 
the business.  
2. The locations, heights, and design of the proposed project shall be shown in Exhibit A. 
3. No outdoor storage is permitted. 
4. Due to lack of delivery space, large-truck deliveries that will block circulation shall be 
prohibited. 
5. Any utilization of large-truck deliveries will require an amendment to this permit to 
accommodate a redesign and incorporation of large-truck deliveries. 
6. Signage and signage relocation approvals are not included as part of this approval and 
shall be reviewed through separate sign permits. 
7. Exterior lighting temperature shall not exceed three thousand degrees (3,000°) Kelvin, 
except the parking lot light pole being replaced which may not exceed five thousand 
degrees (5,000°) Kelvin. 
8. All disturbed areas shall be revegetated with a native, drought-tolerant seed mix or as 
per the submitted Landscape Plan included in Exhibit B.  
9. All necessary permits must be obtained, and fees shall be paid prior to the 
commencement of any construction activity, including but not limited to the Summit 
Building Department and Summit County Engineering Department. 
10. All other service provider requirements shall be met. 
11. Business licenses for future uses shall be issued pursuant to the allowed uses identified 
in the Gorgoza Pines Ranch Consent Agreement. 
12. Any business licenses issued that are not according to the uses identified in the Gorgoza 
Pines Ranch Consent Agreement shall be revoked. 
13. Prior to final approval of a building permit, the applicant shall submit construction plans 
to the Engineering Department in conjunction with a Development Improvement 
Agreement. 
14. All mechanical equipment, including equipment related with future tenant 
improvements, shall be screened. 
15. Façade mechanical equipment, including vents, shall be prohibited unless otherwise 
approved through a Low Impact Permit Amendment. 
16. No modification to the approved Low Impact Permit is permitted without the prior 
approval of the Summit County Community Development Department. 
 
201
11 
Attachments  
Exhibit A – Site Plan & Building Plans 
Exhibit B – Landscape Plan 
Exhibit C – Quarry Junction at Pinebrook Plat A Subdivision 
202
PINEBROOK BLVD
Δ
SANTA FE ROAD
DATE
REVISIONNO. DATE
ENGINEER'S STAMP
DRAWN CHECKED PROJECT #
SCALE
SHEET
C202
PROJECT INFORMATION
DRAWING NOTES:
1" = 10'
MEC
LEGEND
6/19/25
PARK CITY, UTAH
24377
3246 SANTA FE ROAD
06/19/2025
37.94 ft
EXHIBIT A
203
3 OVERVIEW SW
MooN VIEW DesigN
0LOOFUHHN87

PRRQYLHZGHVLJQFRP
ǣ
͜Ȁ͘Ȁ͖͔͖͙͘ǣ͔͘ǣ͖͔
LOT 09 - QUARRY VILLAGE
͛Ǥ
͚͘͘
͘͡Ǧ


Ǥ	
ȋ͔͔Ȍ͔͖
͚͛͜͞	
1 OVERVIEW NE 2 OVERVIEW ES
4 OVERVIEW WN
SANTA FE  ROAD
PINEBROOK BLVD.
NorthEast
PARKING
EastSouth
PA
RKING
SANTA FE  ROAD
PINEBROOK BLVD.
NorthEast
PARKING
East
South
PARKING
204
1.0 (TI)_FINISH FLOOR
6391' - 7 5/8"
1.0 (TI)_FINISH FLOOR
6391' - 7 5/8"
2.0 BEARING (12')
6403' - 7 5/8"
2.0 BEARING (12')
6403' - 7 5/8"
T.O. PARAPET
6408' - 1 5/8"
T.O. PARAPET
6408' - 1 5/8"
BENCHMARK (ZERO) 6390
6390' - 0"
BENCHMARK (ZERO) 6390
6390' - 0"
RIDGELINE
6417' - 7 5/8"
RIDGELINE
6417' - 7 5/8"
T.O. FTG (common)
6387' - 9 5/8"
T.O. FTG (common)
6387' - 9 5/8"
T.O. FND (lower)
6393' - 7 5/8"
T.O. FND (lower)
6393' - 7 5/8"
C B
12' - 0"
2' - 0"
B3 B2
12' - 0"
16' - 6"
7" / 12"
T.O._WINDOW
6399' - 7 5/8"
T.O._WINDOW
6399' - 7 5/8"
8' - 0"
12' - 0"
T.O._AWNING
6400' - 7 5/8"
T.O._AWNING
6400' - 7 5/8"
9' - 0"
4' - 6"
2' - 9 3/4" 3' - 2 1/4" 4' - 0" 3' - 0" 3' - 0" 3' - 0" 9' - 0"
8' - 4"
10' - 0"
0' - 9 3/4" 6' - 8 1/2" 0' - 9 3/4"
6' - 4 1/2"
3' - 0"
C2
5' - 10"
7" / 12"
6391.64'
A
< 26' - 0"
19' - 1 1/4"
9' - 0"
6" 26" 16" 60"
6' - 8"
8' - 0"2' - 2"
9' - 0"
2' - 2" 5' - 0"1' - 4"
10' - 0"
9' - 6"
6"60"16"26"6"
26" 16" 60"
0' - 4" 96"
11' - 6"
4" 8" 4"
AW4H AW4LAW4L
1' - 6"
truss depth
3' - 0"
0101
02 03 02
01
0203
04
A601
1
A601
2
X
A-L
36"  96" X
A-R
36"  96"
A601
5
1.0 (TI)_FINISH FLOOR
6391' - 7 5/8"
1.0 (TI)_FINISH FLOOR
6391' - 7 5/8"
2.0 BEARING (12')
6403' - 7 5/8"
2.0 BEARING (12')
6403' - 7 5/8"
T.O. PARAPET
6408' - 1 5/8"
T.O. PARAPET
6408' - 1 5/8"
BENCHMARK (ZERO) 6390
6390' - 0"
BENCHMARK (ZERO) 6390
6390' - 0"
T.O. FTG (common)
6387' - 9 5/8"
T.O. FTG (common)
6387' - 9 5/8"
---
-
T.O. FND (lower)
6393' - 7 5/8"
T.O. FND (lower)
6393' - 7 5/8"
1 64
T.O._WINDOW
6399' - 7 5/8"
T.O._WINDOW
6399' - 7 5/8"
T.O._AWNING
6400' - 7 5/8"
T.O._AWNING
6400' - 7 5/8"
14' - 2"
32 5
7" / 12"
7" / 12"
25' - 8 1/2"
21' - 1 1/4"
19' - 4 1/4"
0' - 6" 2' - 2" 1' - 4" 5' - 0" 1' - 0"
10' - 0" 2' - 0"
2' - 2" 1' - 4" 5' - 0"
6' - 0"9' - 0"6' - 8"
8' - 6"
10' - 0"
0' - 6" 2' - 2" 1' - 4" 5' - 0" 1' - 0"
3' - 0"
6' - 0"
6' - 0"
AW3AW3
11' - 6"
0' - 4"
0' - 8"
0' - 4"
AW3
1' - 6"
truss depth
3' - 0"
01 04
030209
04
0306
05 05
06
01
A601
3
A601
4
X
A-L
36"  96" X
A-R
36"  96"
1/4" = 1'-0"1 01 FRONT (NE)
MooN VIEW DesigN
0LOOFUHHN87

PRRQYLHZGHVLJQFRP
ǣ
͙Ȁ̺͜γ͙̹Ǧ̺͘
͜Ȁ͘Ȁ͖͔͖͙͘ǣ͔͘ǣ͖͗
LOT 09 - QUARRY VILLAGE

	Ȁ
͚͙͘
͘͡Ǧ


Ǥ	
ȋ͔͔Ȍ͔͖
͚͛͜͞	
1/4" = 1'-0"2 02 LEFT (ES) 205
1.0 (TI)_FINISH FLOOR
6391' - 7 5/8"
1.0 (TI)_FINISH FLOOR
6391' - 7 5/8"
2.0 BEARING (12')
6403' - 7 5/8"
2.0 BEARING (12')
6403' - 7 5/8"
T.O. PARAPET
6408' - 1 5/8"
T.O. PARAPET
6408' - 1 5/8"
BENCHMARK (ZERO) 6390
6390' - 0"
BENCHMARK (ZERO) 6390
6390' - 0"
RIDGELINE
6417' - 7 5/8"
T.O. FTG (common)
6387' - 9 5/8"
T.O. FTG (common)
6387' - 9 5/8"
T.O. FND (lower)
6393' - 7 5/8"
T.O. FND (lower)
6393' - 7 5/8"
CB B3B2
T.O._WINDOW
6399' - 7 5/8"
T.O._WINDOW
6399' - 7 5/8"
T.O._AWNING
6400' - 7 5/8"
T.O._AWNING
6400' - 7 5/8"
C2
METERS
PROPOSED UTILITIES
A
~ 19'-20' above street TBSW
19' - 2"
STREET CORNER
TBSW 98.5'
21' - 1 1/4"
AW1
16"26"6"
40"26"6"
0203 0606
1.0 (TI)_FINISH FLOOR
6391' - 7 5/8"
2.0 BEARING (12')
6403' - 7 5/8"
T.O. PARAPET
6408' - 1 5/8"
BENCHMARK (ZERO) 6390
6390' - 0"
RIDGELINE
6417' - 7 5/8"
T.O. FTG (common)
6387' - 9 5/8"
T.O. FND (lower)
6393' - 7 5/8"
16 4
T.O._WINDOW
6399' - 7 5/8"
T.O._AWNING
6400' - 7 5/8"
3 25
18' - 10 1/4"
25' - 8 1/2"AW1 AW1
72"16"26"6"
01
02
01 01 X
A-L
36"  96" X
A-R
36"  96"
1/4" = 1'-0"1 03 BACK (SW)
1/4" = 1'-0"2 04 RIGHT (EN)
MooN VIEW DesigN
0LOOFUHHN87

PRRQYLHZGHVLJQFRP
ǣ
͙Ȁ̺͜γ͙̹Ǧ̺͘
͜Ȁ͘Ȁ͖͔͖͙͘ǣ͔͘ǣ͖͙
LOT 09 - QUARRY VILLAGE

Ȁ
͚͚͘
͘͡Ǧ


Ǥ	
ȋ͔͔Ȍ͔͖
͚͛͜͞	
206
2
A302
1
A301
1
A302
1
1
6
6
C C
B B
B3 B3
B2 B2
4
4
10' - 0" 74' - 0"
20' - 0" 20' - 0" 32' - 0"
40' - 0" 32' - 0" 2' - 0"
320 SF
CONFERENCE
TI - OCCUPANCY 
BUSINESS / MERCANTILE
3016 GROSS SF
185 SF
Mini Meetings
5' - 0"
9' - 0"
BIKE AREA
FRONT
EGRESS
SHIPPING 
DROP
225 SF
storage II
FRONT
EGRESS
STAFF / SHIP ENTRANCE
125 SF
OFFICE II
10' - 0 1/2" 1' - 0"
GUEST
beverages
75 SF
ENTRY
125 SF
OFFICE I
475 SF
STUDIO
REAR
EGRESS
50 SF
Kitchenettte
67 SF
POD (2p)
207 SF
DESIGN
235SF
Hall/Storage
FINISH FLOOR LAYOUT with (TENANT I) OCCUPANCY
SOUND PROOF
mezzanine Storage 
ABOVE
SOUND PROOF
SOUND PROOF
24"
16' - 0"
29' - 6"
14' - 0"
4' - 0" 9' - 0" 3' - 8" 6' - 8" 3' - 8" 9' - 0" 4' - 0"
C2 C2
80" 18"
18' - 0" 6' - 4" 6' - 8" 6' - 6" 9' - 0" 4' - 0" 9' - 0" 4' - 0" 9' - 0" 2' - 6"
23 1/2" 108" 23 1/2"21" 108" 18"18" 108" 21"
97 1/2"
20"
4' - 6 1/2"
70 SF
FLEX
(storage I)
7' - 0 1/2"
4' - 0"
125 SF
OFFICE III
SOUND PROOF
14" 20" 20"
SOUND PROOF
8' - 3"
1' - 0" 10' - 1 1/2"
8' - 2 1/2" 8' - 2 1/2"
5' - 10 1/2" 5' - 10 1/2"
40 SF
ENTRY
SOUND PROOF
catch-all
8' - 0"
8' - 8"
125 SF
HALL
3
3
(bath 2 future)
16' - 0" 59' - 0"
75' - 0"
24"
24"
mezzanine
24' - 9 3/4"
25"
11' - 11"
2' - 8 1/4" 13' - 5 1/2"
9' - 0"
9' - 0" 9' - 0" 4' - 0" 6' - 0" 4' - 0"
9' - 4"
2
2
5
5
2' - 0" 24' - 6" 9' - 0" 37' - 6" 2' - 0"
A A
84' - 0"
75' - 0"
2' - 0" 24' - 6" 9' - 0" 37' - 6" 2' - 0"
10' - 0" 40' - 0" 34' - 0"
EQ EQ
33" 36" 42" 72" 42" 36" 33"
9' - 0" 10' - 6" 4' - 0" 9' - 0" 4' - 0" 6' - 0" 4' - 0"
FUTURE 
EGRESS
40"
2306 SF
(gross)
TENANT II
(unfinished)
potential Future
Demishing Wall
PROPOSED 
UTILITIES
16' - 0" 9' - 0" 9' - 0"
2' - 0"
120" 36" 48" 72" 48" 36" 120"
mezzanine
25' - 11 1/2"
potential Future 
Passage
potential Future 
Passage
potential Future 
Passage
potential Future 
Passage
76 SF
MECH.
w/service sink
125 SF
ADA bathroom IIDRESS/
SHOWER
4' - 0"
8' - 0"
4' - 0" 4' - 0"
12' - 2 3/4" 0' - 6 3/4" 8' - 11 1/4"
9' - 6 3/4"
8' - 5 1/4"
framing
15' - 3"10' - 1"
22' - 0"
6' - 11"
8' - 6"
3
A301
48"
2' - 0" 8' - 0"
39' - 0" 28' - 0"
NORTH
12"
6 1/2"
4' - 0"
4' - 6"
3' - 6"
WH
1' - 0"16' - 4 3/4"1' - 0"
22"
4" 4"
Roof Access
LADDER
Mezzaine 
Access
LADDER
42"
42"
mezzanine ACCESS
ø 5.00
30" 54" 24 1/2"
24 1/2" 48"
42"
ø 5.00
48" 26"
2
A301
X
1D
36"  96"
X
1C
36"  96"
X
1E
36"  96"
X
1B
36"  96"
8.48 13.34 12.78 12.90
9' - 3 1/2" 6' - 5" 6' - 4" 6' - 4" 6' - 5" 7' - 9" 6' - 1 1/2"
SCISSORS
FLAT COMMONS
FLAT COMMONS
SCISSORS
MEZZANINE - 605 SF 
(STORAGE USE ONLY)
per IBC CODE 505.2 Mezzanines 
PARAPET ROOF
(FLEXIBLE MEMBRANE)
Slope to Internal Drainage System
2
A302
1
A301
1
A302
1 6
C
B
B3
B2
4
ROOF DRAIN to COW TONGUERTU's / EQUIPMENT
GABLE ROOF
(METAL STANDING SEAM)
GABLE ROOF
(METAL STANDING SEAM)
7" / 12"
1/4" / 12"
1/4" 
/ 12"
1/4" / 12"
1/4" 
/ 12"
7" / 12"
C2
3
2 5
A
AWNING
(over)
DOOR
AWNING
(over)
DOOR
AWNING
(over)
DOOR
7" / 12"
7" / 12"
ROOF DRAIN to COW TONGUE
PARAPET WALL
PARAPET WALL
3
A301
FINISH
0' - 3"
overbuild CRICKET
ROOF HATCH ACCESS
2
A301
1/8" = 1'-0"1 4.0 (ROOF) PLAN
MooN VIEW DesigN
0LOOFUHHN87

PRRQYLHZGHVLJQFRP
ǣ
͙Ȁ̺͠γ͙̹Ǧ̺͘
͜Ȁ͘Ȁ͖͔͖͙͘ǣ͔͘ǣ͔͜
LOT 09 - QUARRY VILLAGE
		
Ȁ	
͙͘͞
͘͡Ǧ


Ǥ	
ȋ͔͔Ȍ͔͖
͚͛͜͞	
1/8" = 1'-0"2 1.0 FINISH FLOOR (reference)
207
1.0 (TI)_FINISH FLOOR
6391' - 7 5/8"
2.0 BEARING (12')
6403' - 7 5/8"
2.0 BEARING (12')
6403' - 7 5/8"
T.O. PARAPET
6408' - 1 5/8"
BENCHMARK (ZERO) 6390
6390' - 0"
RIDGELINE
6417' - 7 5/8"
T.O. FTG (common)
6387' - 9 5/8"
2
A302
1
A302
T.O. FND (lower)
6393' - 7 5/8"
C BB3 B2
T.O._WINDOW
6399' - 7 5/8"
T.O._AWNING
6400' - 7 5/8"
C2 A
16' - 6"
12' - 0"
SCISSOR TRUSS
1' - 11 1/2"
BOX TRUSSES
DOOR
8' - 0"
12' - 0"
4' - 6"
CENTRAL ROOF DRAINAGE TO PRIMARY DRAIN
and SECOMDARY OVERFLOW DRAIN
RTUs 
- See MECH. DRAWINGS
overbuild
12' - 0"
6" SLAB
4" CLEAN GRAVEL
FIRE RATED DEMISING WALL
FROST DEPTH
36"
5' - 10"
T.O. WALL
13' - 0"
CEILING CLOUD over DESIGN ISLAND
ROOM
Mini Meetings
CEILING CLOUD over PERIMETER CASEWORK
3' - 0"
7" / 12"
7" / 12"
16.50
CAMBERED SCISSOR TRUSS
(beyond) SEE A107 & A401
(ROOF) ATTIC
LEVEL - I
SUB GRADE
FIRE RETARDANT TREATED 
WOOD SHEATING REQUIRED 
WITHIN 4' ON EACH SIDE OF 
FIRE WALL. NO PENETRATIONS 
ALLOWED IN THIS AREA
PROVIDE A MINIMUM 
CLASS C ROOF 
COVERING
FIRE BLOCKING AS REQUIRED 
AT A MAX OF 10' PER IBC
1" AIR SPACE ON EACH 
SIDE OF SHAFT LINER
(2 PLY) 1/2" GYP. BOARD WITH INTERIOR 
SHEATHING (PER SHEAR WALL SCHEDULE); SEE 
STRUCTURAL SHEET FOR LOCATIONS and TYPE
(JOINTS FIRE TAPED & FINISHED)
INTERIOR SIDE
CONCRETE FOOTING; 
SEE STRUCTURAL SHEETS
FLOOR SLAB
FIRE  RATED PARTY WALL
SECTION VIEW
** ALL FIRE RATED ASSEMBLIES TO BE 
CONSTRUCTED AND INSTALLED IN COMPLIANCE 
WITH SUBMITTAL
"THE GYPSUM ASSOCIATION/GYPSUM AREA 
SEPERATION FIREWALLS GA-620-2011"
C.O. WALL 
SYSTEM
on GRID
C.O. WALL 
SYSTEM
on GRID
CONCRETE FOUNDATION WALL; 
SEE STRUCTURAL SHEETS
12" GEO-FOAM
(R-46) SUB-GRADE 
INSULATION
6 MIL VAPOR BARRIER
over 4" CLEAN GRAVEL 
2x6 WOOD STUD WALL
1/2" GYP. BOARD CEILING
FLOOR JOISTS;
SEE STRUCTURAL SHEETS
DBL TOP PLATE
CONTINUOUS
(2 PLY) 1/2" GYP. BOARD WITH INTERIOR 
SHEATHING (PER SHEAR WALL SCHEDULE); SEE 
STRUCTURAL SHEET FOR LOCATIONS and TYPE
(JOINTS FIRE TAPED & FINISHED)
FINISH FLOOR
LEDGER; SEE STRUCTURAL
LEVEL - II
LEVEL - III
SAME DETAILS as FLOOR BELOW
CONTINUOUS
(2 PLY) 1/2" GYP. BOARD WITH INTERIOR 
SHEATHING (PER SHEAR WALL SCHEDULE); SEE 
STRUCTURAL SHEET FOR LOCATIONS and TYPE
(JOINTS FIRE TAPED & FINISHED)
1/2" GYP. BOARD CEILING
ROOF TRUSS;
SEE STRUCTURAL SHEETS
DBL TOP PLATE
PROVIDE TRUSS BLOCKING AS 
REQ. FOR (2 PLY) 1/2" GYP. 
BOARD; FIRE TAPE & SEAL 
JOINT
LEVEL - I
SUB GRADE
LEVEL - II
LEVEL - III
INTERIOR SIDE
INTERIOR SIDEINTERIOR SIDE
(ROOF) ATTIC
1' - 0"
1"
1.0 (TI)_FINISH FLOOR
6391' - 7 5/8"
2.0 BEARING (12')
6403' - 7 5/8"
2.0 BEARING (12')
6403' - 7 5/8"
T.O. PARAPET
6408' - 1 5/8"
T.O. PARAPET
6408' - 1 5/8"
BENCHMARK (ZERO) 6390
6390' - 0"
RIDGELINE
6417' - 7 5/8"
T.O. FTG (common)
6387' - 9 5/8"
2
A302
1
A302
T.O. FND (lower)
6393' - 7 5/8"
C BB3 B2
T.O._WINDOW
6399' - 7 5/8"
T.O._AWNING
6400' - 7 5/8"
C2 A
16' - 6"
12' - 0"1' - 11 1/2"
12' - 0"
9' - 0"
0' - 6" 40' - 0" 0' - 6"
7" / 12"
ATTIC TRUSS
23' - 9"
CONFERENCE ROOM FLEX STORAGE
(future bath 2) KITCHENETTE
HALL
12' - 0"
8' - 0"
MEZZANINE STORAGE USE ONLY
MEZZANINE - 605 SF 
per IBC CODE 505.2 Mezzanines 
8' - 7 3/4"
1.0 (TI)_FINISH FLOOR
6391' - 7 5/8"
2.0 BEARING (12')
6403' - 7 5/8"
2.0 BEARING (12')
6403' - 7 5/8"
T.O. PARAPET
6408' - 1 5/8"
BENCHMARK (ZERO) 6390
6390' - 0"
RIDGELINE
6417' - 7 5/8"
T.O. FTG (common)
6387' - 9 5/8"
2
A302
1
A302
T.O. FND (lower)
6393' - 7 5/8"
C BB3 B2
T.O._WINDOW
6399' - 7 5/8"
T.O._AWNING
6400' - 7 5/8"
C2 A
16' - 6"
12' - 0"
SCISSOR TRUSS
1' - 11 1/2"
BOX TRUSSES
DOOR
8' - 0"
4' - 6"
CENTRAL ROOF DRAINAGE TO PRIMARY DRAIN
and SECOMDARY OVERFLOW DRAIN
RTUs 
- See MECH. DRAWINGS
overbuild
12' - 0"
6" SLAB
4" CLEAN GRAVEL
FIRE RATED DEMISING WALL
FROST DEPTH
36"
5' - 10"
OFFICE IIOFFICE III
STUDIO
10' - 0"
11' - 0"
CAMBERED SCISSOR TRUSS
(beyond) SEE A107 & A401
MooN VIEW DesigN
0LOOFUHHN87

PRRQYLHZGHVLJQFRP
ǣ

͜Ȁ͘Ȁ͖͔͖͙͘ǣ͔͘ǣ͖͚
LOT 09 - QUARRY VILLAGE

Ǥ

͙͛͘
͘͡Ǧ


Ǥ	
ȋ͔͔Ȍ͔͖
͚͛͜͞	
1" = 1'-0"5 PARTY WALL FIRE RATED 1 (SECTION)
3/16" = 1'-0"1 CROSS SECTION - 01
3/16" = 1'-0"3 CROSS SECTION - 03
3/16" = 1'-0"2 CROSS SECTION - 02 208
11' CONIFER
6' CONIFER
4.5" CALIPER DECIDUOS
2.5" CALIPER DECIDUOS
TALL - SHRUB
SHORT - SHRUB
GROUND COVER CLUSTER
BOTANICAL CLUSTER
Perrenials & Micro Covers
NEW SOIL / DIRT
BLDG. FOOTPRINT
LAWN TURF
(FM)  FLAME MAPLE
ALLOWABLE SPECIES (ELECTED)
(SP)  SCOTCH PINE
(NS)  NORWAY SPRUCE
(CS)  COLORADO SPRUCE
(WRB)  WESTERN RED BIRCH
(RMJ)  ROCKY MTN JUNIPER
(GO)  GAMBEL OAK
(ROD)  RED OSIER DOGWOOD
(PKC)  PEKING COTONEASTER
(TJ)  TAMARIX JUNIPER
(WR)  WOODS ROSE
(COM)  COMMON SNOWBERRY
(GC)  GOLDEN CURRENT
(MV) MANCHURIAN VIBURNUM
(RLR)  RED LEAF ROSE
* FOR NECESSARY OPTIONS - see PLANT LIST BELOW for APPROVED SPECIES
SUMMIT COUNTY CODE - SYNDERVILLE BASIN GENERAL PLAN
* DURING CONSTRUCTION AN EFFORT SHALL BE MADE TO PRESERVE EXISTING VEGETATION.
ANY IMPACTED AREAS SHALL BE REPLACED WITH APPROVED NATIVE PLANTINGS.
* NO LANDSCAPE LIGHTING IS DESIRED.
LANDSCAPE LEGEND
NORTH
133.11
ENTRY: 931114
RECIPROCAL EAS.
33.50
PUE
10.00
͘͡
MAINTAIN 
EXISTING TURF 
GROUND COVER
MAINTAIN 
EXISTING TURF 
GROUND COVER
light
transformer pad
MooN VIEW DesigN
0LOOFUHHN87

PRRQYLHZGHVLJQFRP
ǣ

͚Ȁ͖͘Ȁ͖͔͖͙͗ǣ͖͜ǣ͘͝
LOT 09 - QUARRY VILLAGE


͙͘͜
͘͡Ǧ


Ǥ	
ȋ͔͕ȌȋȌ
͚͛͜͞	
1 : 1001 SITE LANDSCAPE PLAN
EXHIBIT B
209
EXHIBIT C
210
MINUTES
SUMMIT COUNTY
Snyderville Basin Planning Commission Meeting
SHELDON RICHINS BUILDING
1885 WEST UTE BOULEVARD, PARK CITY, UT, 84098
TUESDAY, AUGUST 12, 2025
Meeting also conducted via Zoom.
**AMENDED**
DRAFT
Tyann Mooney
Makena Hawley
Matthew Nagie
Spencer Young
Heather Peteroy
Eric Sagerman
Lynda Viti
Ray Milliner
Laura Kuhrmeyer
Brian Craven
Welcome/Attendance
Regular Session (6:00 P.M.)
1) Public comment for items not on the agenda or pending
applications. (6:00 P.M.)
Commission Chair Mooney opened the meeting for public comment at
6:00 p.m.
No public comments were heard.
Commission Chair Mooney closed the meeting for public comment at
6:01 p.m.
2) Public hearing and action regarding a Conditional Use Permit
(CUP) for an "Accessory Dwelling Unit" (ADU) within Unit 6 of the
Altitude Loft Condominiums. 4123 N Forestdale Drive, Unit 6.
211
Parcel ALTLC-6. Applicant: Brock Milton. Owner: Mark A. Abbott.
Administrative Process. Project #25-095.Laura Kuhrmeyer, County
Planner. (6:01 P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Project 25-095 CUP Altitude Lofts Unit 6 ADU Staff Report
and Exhibits 8.12.25
Laura Kuhrmeyer, Planner, presented an application for a Conditional
Use Permit for an Accessory Dwelling Unit in the Altitude Loft
Condominiums. (6:02 P.M.)
Commissioners Sagerman, Peteroy, and Young asked brief clarifying
questions. Planner Kuhrmeyer addressed their questions. (6:04 P.M.)
Commission Chair Mooney opened the meeting for public hearing at
6:08 p.m.
Brock Milton, Applicant, introduced himself to the Commission and
provided additional information on the project. (6:08 P.M.)
Commission Chair Mooney closed the meeting for public hearing at 6:09
p.m.
Commission Chair Mooney provided positive feedback to Planner
Kuhrmeyer regarding the conditions of approval provided in the packet.
(6:09 P.M.)
Spencer Young made a motion to approve the applicant's
Conditional Use Permit for an Accessory Dwelling Unit in the
Altitude Lofts Unit 6 according to the findings of fact, conclusions
of law, and conditions of approval in the staff report. Eric
Sagerman seconded, and all voted in favor, (6-0).
3) **Applicant requested continuation to the September 9th meeting**.
Public hearing and possible action regarding a Conditional Use
Permit (CUP) for an expansion of an existing Trailhead Parking Lot
for the East Canyon Creek Trailhead. Approximate address: 8566 N
Bluebird Lane. Parcel PP-50-D-X and Parcel SS-1-A-7-X. Applicant:
Phares Gines, representing Snyderville Basin Special Recreation
District. Owner: Snyderville Basin Special Recreation District and
Snyderville Basin Water Reclamation District (SBWRD).
Administrative Process. Project #23-198.Laura Kuhrmeyer, County
Planner.
Attachment: Cover Page
This agenda item was continued by the applicant.
4) **This Public Hearing has been moved to the August 26, 2025**.
Public hearing and possible action regarding a Conditional Use
Permit for a 5,710 square foot Major Accessory Building; 4865 N
500 W, Park City; Parcel PP-87-8. Applicant: Rosemary Stum, Lloyd
212
Architecture. Owner: Nathan Wright. Administrative Process.
Project #25-067. Jennifer Leslie, County Planner.
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Wright Barn CUP Staff Report
This agenda item was continued due to noticing needs.
5) Approval of Minutes: July 8, 2025. (6:11 P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Draft SBPC Minutes 07.08.25.pdf
Spencer Young made a motion to approve the minutes from July 8,
2025. Makena Hawley seconded, and all voted in favor, (4-0).
Commission Items (6:12 P.M.)
Commission Chair Mooney asked the Commissioners for input and ideas for
future training work sessions. (6:12 P.M.)
Director Items (6:13 P.M.)
Ray Milliner, Principal Planner, stated that the Commission would start seeing
applications from Dakota Pacific since the County Manager had approved their
application, and the appeals window had expired. Planner Milliner also
provided a preview of agenda items for upcoming meetings. (6:13 P.M.)
Lynda Viti, Civil Deputy Attorney, informed the Commission of changes to the
privacy act regarding the collecting of personal information from members of
the public during meetings. (6:23 P.M.)
Adjournment (6:29 P.M.)
Heather Peteroy made a motion to adjourn. Eric Sagerman seconded, and
all voted in favor, (6-0).
213