1.
Public comment for items not on the agenda or pending applications.
2.
Public hearing and possible recommendation to the Summit County Council regarding a
proposal to remove the Final Site Plan requirements included in Section 11-4-6 of the
Eastern Summit County Development Code. Legislative Review. File #25-016.
Jennifer Leslie, County Planner.
3.
Approval of Minutes: February 20, 2025.
AGENDA 
EASTERN SUMMIT COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION 
Thursday, March 
6, 2025
NOTICE is hereby given that the Eastern Summit County Planning Commission will meet
electronically, via Zoom, and at the anchor location of Summit County Services Building - Auditorium
110 North Main Street, Kamas, Utah 84036
(All times listed are general in nature, and are subject to change by the Board Chair)
 
You may attend in person or
 
Join Zoom webinar:
https://summitcountyut.zoom.us/j/99249026124
OR 
To listen by phone only: Dial 1-301-715-8592, 
or 1-253-215-8782, Webinar ID: 992 4902 6124
 
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
 
 
Final Site Plan Code Amendment Staff Report
 
Draft ESCPC Minutes 02.20.25.pdf
Commission Items
Director Items
Adjourn
To view staff reports available at the end of the Friday before the meeting please visit
www.summitcounty.org.
Individuals needing special accommodations pursuant to the Americans with Disabilities Act regarding this meeting may
contact Vicki Geary, Summit County Community Development Department at (435) 336-3123.
1
AGENDA ITEM NO. 1
Staff Report
 
 
DATE:
March 
6, 2025
SUBMITTED BY:
Vicki Geary
ITEM TYPE:
Discussion
AGENDA SECTION:
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
SUBJECT:
Public comment for items not on the agenda or pending
applications.
SUGGESTED ACTION:
ESTIMATED TIME:
INTRODUCTION:
BACKGROUND:
CONCLUSION:
 
 
 
EASTERN SUMMIT COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION 
AGENDA ITEM REPORT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENTS:
2
AGENDA ITEM NO. 2
Staff Report
 
 
DATE:
March 
6, 2025
SUBMITTED BY:
Jennifer Leslie, Community Development
ITEM TYPE:
Recommendation
AGENDA SECTION:
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
SUBJECT:
Public hearing and possible recommendation to the Summit County
Council regarding a proposal to remove the Final Site Plan
requirements included in Section 11-4-6 of the Eastern Summit
County Development Code. Legislative Review. File #25-016.
Jennifer Leslie, County Planner.
SUGGESTED ACTION:
ESTIMATED TIME:
INTRODUCTION:
BACKGROUND:
CONCLUSION:
 
 
 
EASTERN SUMMIT COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION 
AGENDA ITEM REPORT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENTS:
Final Site Plan Code Amendment Staff Report
3
 
   
Community Development Department 
P.O. Box 128 
60 North Main Street 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
summitcounty.org 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
To:    Eastern Summit County Planning Commission 
From:    Jennifer Leslie, County Planner 
Date of Meeting:  March 6, 2025 
Type of Item: Eastern Summit County Development Code Amendments – Public 
Hearing/Possible Recommendation  
Final Land Use Authority:  Summit County Council 
Process:   Legislative 
Project Number:  25-016 
 
 
PROPOSAL 
Staff proposes to remove the requirements for Final Site Plans and the entirety of Section 11-4-
6 of the Eastern Summit County Development Code. The proposed amendments would remove 
duplicitous requirements for Conditional Use Permit applicants.   
 
BACKGROUND 
Staff is proposing amendments to the Code to remove Section 11-4-6, which describes 
requirements for submitting Final Site Plans. The intention of the Final Site Plan language is to 
ensure that a document is recorded against the property to depict the site plan for an approved 
development. Final Site Plans are required to have signature blocks and include the meets and 
bounds of a property with the proposed development shown. The Final Site Plan section of the 
code is only required for Conditional Use Permits (CUP), which have their own site plan and 
survey requirements. CUPs also run with the land and impose conditions for development, 
which effectively achieves the same result as recordation of a Final Site Plan.  
 
As written, the current language requires that a separate land use application is filed with any 
CUP, plus associated noticing and recordation fees. A separate public hearing with the Eastern 
Summit County Planning Commission is also required. Beyond any necessary amendments to 
CUPs, the recorded Final Site Plan would also have to be amended if a property owner wants to 
make changes to their proposal. Staff believes that the Final Site Plan requirement is 
redundant, time consuming, and costly for applicants. Similar processes were once in the 
Snyderville Basin Development Code and were removed.  
 
The proposed amendments are attached as Exhibit A and summarized below. Modifications 
include removal of Section 11-4-6, updated references to the code sections following 11-4-6 in 
the Chapter, and additional minor changes to capitalization or references to defined terms.   
 
4
 
 
Changes to Chapter 2: 
1. Remove reference to final site plans when demonstrating proof of adequate water. 
Replace “final site plan” with “Development Permit”. 
2. Correct references to the Low Impact Permit (LIP) section and fix capitalization of 
“low impact permit”. 
 
Changes to Chapter 3:  
1. Remove reference to Final Site Plans for industrial uses; instead reference “site 
plans”, which are a requirement for a complete application for any Development 
Permit.  
2. Update references to code sections for Temporary Use Permits (TUP), LIPs, and 
CUPs. 
 
Changes to Chapter 4:  
1. Remove Final Site Plan reference in table of contents and update numbering in all 
sections following the Final Site Plans. 
2. Update capitalization and code references for Special Exceptions.  
3. Remove all of Section 11-4-6: Final Site Plans.  
4. Change reference to Final Site Plans to “site plans” in CUP and Master Planned 
Development (MPD) sections.  
 
Changes to Chapter 6: 
1. Capitalize defined terms including “low impact permit”, “conditional use permit”, 
and “land use authority” where written.  
2. Update references to the LIP, CUP, and MPD code sections. 
3. Remove reference to Final Site Plans for care facilities for the elderly or disabled; 
instead reference “site plans”. 
4. Update references for “final plat” to “Final Subdivision Plat” to appropriately 
reference the new subdivision language. 
 
Changes to Appendix A: 
1. Capitalize defined terms including “low impact permit”, “conditional use permit”, 
“conditional use”, “final subdivision plat”, and “record of survey”.  
2. Update appropriate code references for all affected sections.  
3. Remove any reference to “final site plan” within defined terms.  
4. Remove definitions of Final Site Plan and Site Plan, Final.  
 
Changes to Appendix B:  
1. Update references to MPD section.  
 
 
 
5
ANALYSIS 
Section 11-5-3 of the Eastern Summit County Development Code establishes a process for 
amendments to the text of the Code. It states that whenever an amendment to the Code is 
initiated, it must be reviewed by the Planning Commission who will deliver a recommendation 
to the County Council. The County Council, after holding a public hearing, can approve, approve 
with modifications, or deny the amendment. There is no criterion. 
 
RECOMMENDATION 
Staff recommends the Eastern Summit County Planning Commission review the proposed 
language amending specific sections of the Eastern Summit County Development Code, conduct 
a public hearing, and vote to forward a positive recommendation to the Summit County 
Council.  
 
 
Findings of Fact: 
1. Staff is proposing amendments to the Eastern Summit County Development Code 
(Code) to remove Section 11-4-6: Final Site Plans and all references to final site plans. 
Any references to the Code sections following 11-4-6 within Chapter 4 would have 
updated references.  
2. Staff determined these amendments are primarily administrative in nature, intended to 
clarify and reduce the submittal requirements for Development Permit applicants.  
3. These amendments do not affect density or other substantive development standards. 
4. The amendments apply to the entire Eastern Summit County Planning District. 
 
Conclusions of Law: 
1. The amendments are consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of the General 
Plan. 
2. The amendments are consistent with the requirements established in chapter 6 of the 
Eastern Summit County Development Code.  
3. The proposed amendments are not detrimental to public health, safety, and welfare. 
 
Public Notice, Meetings, and Comments 
Public notice was published in the Summit County News and physically posted. At the time of 
this report, Staff has not received any public input.  
 
Attachments 
Exhibit A: Proposed Amendments 
 
6
EXHIBIT A 
Title 11 Eastern Summit County Development Code 
Chapter 2: Development Evaluation Standards 
Section 11-2-3: Water and Sewage 
B.   Expansion Of Existing Enterprises: The expansion of lawfully established business 
enterprises shall require a "conditional use" approval, as described in section 11-4-7 of 
this title. The intent of the conditional use approval shall be to ensure compatibility with 
surrounding uses to the extent practical and reasonable. They shall be allowed to 
undertake appropriate expansion when they reasonably mitigate potential impacts on 
nearby residential land uses. Provisions for mitigation are described in chapter 2 of this 
title. (Ord. 708, 12-10-2008) 
 
Section 11-2-3: Water and Sewage 
Section 11-2-4: Natural Resources 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   E.   Adequate Water: No Building Permit, Low Impact Use, Conditional Use or 
commercial or industrial development shall be approved without adequate water 
quantity, quality, pressure and dependability to support the Use intended and to 
provide for protection from fire. 
1.   Applicability: With the exception of Subdivisions consisting of three (3) or 
less Lots and Low Impact Uses, the standards for adequate water rights to 
serve a project shall be satisfied prior to the approval of a Final Subdivision Plat 
or final site plan Development Permit for the proposed development. 
 
 
G.   Natural Grade Slopes (Exception): In the event a Conforming Parcel has no 
locations (or insufficient area) for otherwise permissible Development without 
violating subsection F of this section, or in the event access to a suitable development 
area on a Conforming Parcel requires the crossing of an area of thirty percent (30%) 
slope, the Community Development Director may approve development as a low 
impact permit Low Impact Permit subject to the findings in section 11-4-8 11-4-7 of 
this title and the following additional findings: 
… 
J.   Ridgeline Development (Exception): Where it is not possible to build on a 
Conforming Parcel without violating the prohibition in subsection I of this section, the 
Community Development Director may approve ridgeline development as a low impact 
permit Low Impact Permit subject to the ﬁndings in section 11-4-8 11-4-7 of this title 
and all of the following additional criteria: 
7
EXHIBIT A 
Chapter 3: Zoning Districts and Requirements 
Section 11-3-12: Industrial (I) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 11-3-15: Allowed, Conditional, Low Impact, and Temporary Uses 
 
 
 
 
Section 11-3-16: Use Table 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C.   Industrial Zone And Use Criteria: New Industrial Uses shall not be established nor 
shall existing industrial uses be expanded within the Industrial Zone unless the Use 
complies with all of the following criteria: 
…  
5.   A final site plan, design guidelines and operational management plan will be 
required as part of any conditional use Conditional Use, rezoning or expansion 
of an industrial use to fully address potential impacts to neighboring uses or the 
community at large.  
D.   A Temporary Use is a Use that can be established for a limited duration with the 
intent to discontinue such Use upon the expiration of the time period. Any Use not 
listed as an Allowed Use or a Conditional Use within a Zone District may be considered 
as a Temporary Use pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of section 11-4-
9 11-4-8 of this title. (Ord. 877, 4-18-2018, eff. 6-1-2018) 
Permitted Uses R-
2.5 
AG
-5 
AG
-10 
AG
-20 
AG
-40 
AG
-80 
CA C LI I Additional 
Reference 
…            
Ground 
mounted solar 
energy system 
L L L L L L L A A A 11-4-8 11-4-
7, 11-6-22 
Ground 
mounted solar 
energy system, 
large scale 
  C C C C C   C C C 11-4-7 11-4-
6, 11-6-22 
…            
Oil wells, 
natural gas 
wells and steam 
wells 
        C C       C Subsection 1
1-4-7I 11-4-
6I of this title 
…            
Note: 
    1.    Wind power generation facilities greater than 45 feet in height are exempt from 
the ridgeline prohibition provisions in subsections 11-2-4I and J of this title provided it 
meets all of the conditional uses permit requirements in section 11-4-7 11-4-6 of this 
title.  
8
EXHIBIT A 
Chapter 4: Development Review Processes and Procedures 
Table of Contents:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 11-4-2: Lot/Parcel Requirement for Development, Subdivisions and/or Uses 
 
 
  
SECTION: 
11-4-1: Purpose 
11-4-2: Lot/Parcel Requirement For Development, Subdivisions And/Or Uses 
11-4-3: Permits Required 
11-4-4: General Provisions 
11-4-5: Subdivisions, Condominiums, Subdivision Plat Amendments, Parcel 
Boundary Adjustments, And Divisions Of Land For Non-Development Purposes 
11-4-6: Final Site Plans 
11-4-7 11-4-6: Conditional Use Permits 
11-4-8 11-4-7: Low Impact Permits 
11-4-9 11-4-8: Temporary Use Permits 
11-4-10 11-4-9: Zoning Variances 
11-4-11 11-4-10: Special Exceptions 
11-4-12 11-4-11: Master Planned Developments 
 
C.   Eligibility For Development: 
… 
 2.   A Non-Conforming Parcel is eligible for Development of a Single-Family 
Dwelling, Subdivision, or other Development Action, Permit, or Use identified in 
section 11-3-16 of this title, by an Action of the County through one of the 
following Development processes, as defined and outlined in this title, provided 
all criteria can be met. 
… 
 d.   Special Exception: Special exception Exception as granted by the 
County Council if the criteria for approval as outlined in section 11-4-0 
11 11-4-10 of this chapter can be satisfied. (Ord. 868, 6-14-2017)  
9
EXHIBIT A 
Section 11-4-6: Final Site Plans 
 
 
 
 
  
A.   Information Required: A detailed Final Site Plan is required for all conditional use permits. Final Site 
Plans shall contain the information set forth in this section. The Community Development Director may 
waive specific submittal requirements if it is determined that the submittal requirement(s) are not 
necessary to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of this chapter. 
1.   A vicinity map at a scale of not less than one inch equals one thousand feet (1" = 1,000'). 
2.   A legal description and accompanying map exhibit of the exterior boundaries of the 
development area giving lengths and bearings of the boundary lines at the scale of one inch 
equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'), showing the location and type of boundary evidenced. Such 
information should be provided from the recorded plats. The legal description shall include the 
following data: 
a.   Metes and bounds of all property lines; 
(1)   Total area of property; 
(2)   North scale and north arrow; and 
b.   Name and route numbers of boundary roads and the width of existing rights-of-way. 
3.   Existing topography with maximum contour intervals of two feet (2'). 
4.   A final detailed land use plan at a scale of not less than one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 
100') showing: 
a.   The location and arrangement of all proposed uses, including building area. 
b.   The height and number of floors of all buildings, other than single-family dwelling units, 
both above and below or partially below the finished grade. 
c.   A cross section elevation plan depicting all buildings, structures, monuments, and 
other significant natural and manmade features of the proposed development. 
d.   The yard dimensions from the development boundaries and adjacent private and 
public roads and alleys. 
e.   The traffic and the pedestrian circulation system, including the location and width of 
all public and private roads, driveways, entrances to parking areas and parking structures, 
trails, walkways and bicycle paths. 
f.   Off street parking and loading areas and structures, and landscaping for parking areas. 
g.   Greenbelt and other active recreation space areas, together with proposed private 
recreational areas, specifying the proposed improvement of all such areas, and 
delineating those areas proposed for specific types of recreational facilities. 
h.   Architectural features of typical proposed structures, including lighting fixtures, signs 
and landscaping. 
 i.   A plan or statement showing the location and design of all screening measures and 
indicating the type and height of such screening. 
j.   When the development is to be constructed in stages or units, a final sequence of 
development schedule showing the order of construction of such stages or units, and 
approximate completion date for the construction of each stage or unit. 
 
10
EXHIBIT A 
  k.   A copy of all Covenants, Restrictions and Conditions pertaining to the use, 
maintenance and operation of private open space areas. 
l.   All existing monuments found during the course of the survey (including a physical 
description such as "brass cap"). 
m.   All existing easements or rights-of-way, including those contiguous to the platted 
area, their nature, width, and the book and page number of their recording in the County 
Recorder's Office. 
n.   All rights-of-way and easements and trails (including open space) created by the 
development with their boundary, bearings, lengths, widths, name, number or purpose. 
For curved boundaries, the curve radius, central angle and length of arc shall be given. 
o.   A final statement in tabular form which sets forth the following data, when such data is 
applicable to a given development plan: 
(1)   The area of all parcels created, total acreage, total acreage in lots, and total 
acreage in private or public roads or other dedicated parcels; 
(2)   Total number of dwelling units, by development phase; 
(3)   Residential density and units per acre; 
(4)   Total floor area and floor area ratio for each type of use; 
(5)   Total area in open space and length of trails; 
(6)   Total area in developed recreational open space; and 
(7)   Total number of off street parking and loading spaces. 
B.   Site Plan Contents: In addition to the requirements of subsection A of this section, the Final Site Plan 
shall conform to current surveying practice and shall show the following information: 
1.   A title block giving the development's name and the quarter-quarter section, section, 
township, range, principal meridian, and county of its location. 
2.   A notation of any adjoining plats or certificates of survey and titles thereto. 
3.   All monuments set during the course of the survey (including a physical description such as 
"rebar driven to depth of..."), including appropriate witness monuments. 
4.   The owner's Certificate of Consent, including a legal description of the subdivision's 
boundaries and the dedication of public ways or spaces. This certificate shall be signed, dated 
and notarized. 
5.   The owner's Certificate of Consent should include a reference to any covenants that may be 
declared and blanks where the County Recorder may enter the book and page number of their 
recording. 
6.   A Certificate of Consent from any and all mortgagors, lien holders, or others with a real 
property interest in the subdivision. These Certificates of Consent shall be signed, dated and 
notarized. 
7.   A Surveyor's Certificate showing the name and registration number of the surveyor 
responsible for making the survey. This Surveyor's Certificate shall be signed and dated. 
polyester film (mylar). Final site plans may be either eighteen inches by twenty four inches (18" x 
24"), or twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36"). Three (3) paper copies shall be 
submitted along with the linen or film copy. 11
EXHIBIT A 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 11-4-7 11-4-6: Conditional Use Permits 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 11-4-8 11-4-7: Low Impact Permits 
Section 11-4-9 11-4-8: Temporary Use Permits 
Section 11-4-10 11-4-9: Zoning Variances 
Section 11-4-11 11-4-10: Special Exceptions 
  
8.   Signature blocks prepared for the dated signatures of the Planning Commission, County 
Manager, County Recorder, County Engineer, County Attorney, electrical and gas utilities (when 
applicable) and applicable fire district. A signature block shall also be provided for the County 
Treasurer indicating that all taxes, tax notice charges, interest and penalties charged to the 
property have been paid. 
C.   Site Plan Materials, Size, Copies: Final site plans may be prepared on linen or on a stable base    
D.   Multiple Sheets: Multiple sheet final site plans may be used. All sheets shall be numbered and 
referenced to an index, and all required certificates shall appear on a single sheet (along with the index 
and vicinity maps). 
E.   Review Procedure: 
1.   The Community Development Director shall review the application for a final site plan, 
prepare a staff report, which makes recommendations and proposed findings, and present such 
to the Planning Commission. Following a lawfully advertised public hearing, the Planning 
Commission shall take final action on the application for a final site plan. (Ord. 868, 6-14-2017; 
amd. Ord. 938, 5-14-2022) 
F.   Establishment Of A Conditional Use Permit: Final Action on an Application for a 
Conditional Use Permit shall be in the form of a signed letter issued by the Community 
Development Director to the Applicant speciﬁcally identifying each condition together 
with the approved Final Site Plan site plan and any other accompanying documents 
determined to be relevant by the Community Development Director. 
12
EXHIBIT A 
Section 11-4-12 11-4-11: Master Planned Developments 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D. Process 
… 
6. Vesting Of Approval: 
a.   Master Planned Developments: Construction within the MPD area will be 
required to commence within ﬁve (5) years of the date of the Planning 
Commission MPD approval. After construction commences, the MPD shall 
remain valid as long as it is consistent with the approved speciﬁc project-
phasing plan as set forth in the approved Final Site Plan site plan and associated 
documents. It is anticipated that the speciﬁc project-phasing plan may require 
review and re-evaluation of the project at speciﬁed points in the development of 
the project. 
c b.   Master Planned Developments Associated With A Rezone: Construction 
within the MPD area will be required to commence within ﬁve (5) years of the 
date of the County Council MPD approval. After construction commences, the 
MPD shall remain valid as long as it is consistent with the approved speciﬁc 
project-phasing plan as set forth in the approved ﬁnal site plan and associated 
documents. It is anticipated that the speciﬁc project-phasing plan may require 
review and re-evaluation of the project at speciﬁed points in the development of 
the project. In the event that the required construction commencement has not 
taken place in the prescribed timeframe, the MPD shall expire and the zone 
shall revert to the previous zone designation.  
 
13
EXHIBIT A 
Chapter 6: General Regulations 
Section 11-6-2: Non-conforming Uses, Structures and Lots 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
H.   Enlargement Of A Non-conforming Residential, Agricultural, Or Accessory 
Structure: A Non-conforming Residential, Agricultural, or Accessory Structure may be 
enlarged according to the following criteria: 
… 
 3.   Low Impact Permit Required: Any portion of a Non-conforming Residential, 
Agricultural, or Accessory Structure that does not comply with the Setback 
requirements for the Zone District in which the Structure is located may be 
enlarged through the Low Impact Permit low impact permit process described 
in section 11-4-7 11-4-8 of this title and according to the following criteria: 
… 
I.   Enlargement Of A Non-conforming Commercial Or Industrial Structure: A non-
conforming commercial or industrial Structure may be enlarged according to the 
following criteria: 
… 
2.   Low Impact Permit Required: A non-conforming commercial or industrial 
Structure shall not be enlarged in any way that increases the nonconformity, 
except through the Low Impact Permit low impact permit process described in 
section 11-4-7 11-4-16 of this title and according to the criteria found in this 
section. A Public Hearing shall be held before the Commission. Following the 
Public Hearing, the Commission shall make a recommendation to the CDD 
regarding an approval, approval with conditions, or denial of the Application. 
 J.   Enlargement Or Conversion Of A Non-conforming Commercial Or Industrial Use: A 
non-conforming commercial or industrial Use may be enlarged or converted to another 
Non-conforming Use according to the following criteria: 
1.   Low Impact Permit Required: A non-conforming commercial or industrial 
Use shall not be enlarged in any way that increases the nonconformity except 
through the Low Impact Permit low impact permit process described in section 
11-4-7 11-4-16 of this title and according to the criteria found in this section. A 
Public Hearing shall be held before the Commission. Following the Public 
Hearing, the Commission shall make a recommendation to the CDD regarding 
an approval, approval with conditions or denial of the Application. 
14
EXHIBIT A 
Section 11-6-6: Equipment Enclosures, Utility Structures and Related Facilities 
 
 
 
 
Section 11-6-9: Development Agreements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 11-6-14: Completion of Improvements 
 
B.   Application: All applicants wishing to submit an Application to construct utility 
facilities/structures shall: 1) submit to staff the latitude and longitude of proposed 
utility facilities/structures; 2) meet or exceed the following criteria in addition to the 
conditional use Conditional Use criteria in section 11-4-7 11-4-6 of this title: 
A.   Authority: The County may, but under no circumstances is it required to, enter into a 
Development Agreement with a property owner or Applicant for Development 
approval. The County, at its sole discretion, may opt to use a Development Agreement 
when it determines that such an approach to Development promotes and protects the 
public health, safety and general welfare. Development Agreements shall be used to 
implement a Rezone under a Master Planned Development, as indicated in section 11-
4-12 11-4-11of this title. 
… 
D.   Criteria For Approval: The criteria for approval are as follows: 
… 
4.   Development allowed under a Development Agreement shall comply with 
the Development Evaluation Standards in chapter 2 of this title, the 
Infrastructure Standards in this chapter, and all other criteria described in 
section 11-4-12 11-4-11of this title. 
… 
E.   Procedure For Approving Agreements: All Development Agreements shall be 
reviewed and approved in accordance with the procedures for a Master Planned 
Development, as described in section 11-4-12 11-4-11 of this title. (Ord. 708, 12-10-
2008; amd. Ord. 931, 10-13-2021) 
  A.   Financing: Installation of the improvements required in a Development or 
development phase shall be guaranteed by: 
      1.   Installation of all required and represented improvements with an approved 
improvement agreement prior to the ﬁling of a ﬁnal plat or ﬁnal site plan Final 
Subdivision Plat; or 
15
EXHIBIT A 
Section 11-6-18: Residential Care Facilities for the Elderly or Disabled 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 11-6-21: Adaptive Reuse of Historically Signiﬁcant Structures 
 
 
 
Section 11-6-22: Solar Energy Systems 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 11-6-24: Off-Site Parking Lots for Event Centers or Guest Ranches or Lodges 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   A.   A Residential Care Facility for the elderly or disabled may not be established 
unless: 
      1.   A conditional use permit Conditional Use Permit has been issued; 
      2.   Development review and approval of a ﬁnal site plan has occurred and a building 
permit has been issued. 
F.   Qualifying Provisions: In order to qualify for Conditional Use review under section 
11-4-7 11-4-6, "Conditional Use Permits" , of this title, the Applicant must ﬁrst 
demonstrate compliance with all of the following to the Planning Commission: 
B.   Standards. In addition to the standards for a Conditional Use in Chapter 11-4-7 11-
4-6 of this Title the following standards will apply to all Off-Site Parking Lots for Event 
Center/Guest Ranches or Lodges: 
D.   Large Scale Ground Mounted Solar Energy System: 
… 
 4.   Systems should be designed, oriented, and constructed to minimize 
impacts on adjacent properties and the environment. When reviewing an 
application, the land use authority Land Use Authority shall consider the 
following in addition to § 11-4-7 11-4-6: 
16
EXHIBIT A 
Appendix A Deﬁnitions 
  CERTIFICATE OF CONSENT: The owner's dedication on a  ﬁnal subdivision plat or Final Site 
Plan Final Subdivision Plat; or the lienholder's consent on a Final Subdivision Plat. 
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT: A Development Permit which approves a conditional use 
Conditional Use. 
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT, MAJOR AMENDMENT: An amendment to a conditional use permit  
Conditional Use Permit as set forth in subsection 11-4-7G2 11-4-6G2 of this title. 
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT, MINOR AMENDMENT: An amendment to a Conditional Use 
Permit as set forth in subsection 11-4-7G1 11-4-6G1 of this title. 
FINAL SITE PLAN: A map establishing detailed development layout, and other development 
details as set forth in section 11-4-6 of this title. 
SITE PLAN, FINAL: A document or map that may be required by Summit County during a 
preliminary review preceding the issuance of a development permit to demonstrate that an 
owner's or developer's proposed development activity meets a land use requirement. Final 
Site Plans shall conform to the requirements of section 11-4-6 of this title. 
MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENT (MPD): A development process set forth in section 11-4-12 
11-4-11 of this title whereby comprehensive project design is accomplished through 
development strategies, efficiencies in land resources, and ﬂexibility and innovation in design. 
MPD, Major Amendment: An amendment to an MPD as set forth in subsection 11-4-12D5b 11-
4-11D5b of this title. 
MPD, Minor Amendment: An amendment to an MPD as set forth in subsection 11-4-12D5a 11-
4-11D5a of this title. 
OPEN SPACE, DEED RESTRICTED: Land which is deed restricted for public or private 
agricultural, scenic, or recreational purposes. This has reference to the bonus density set forth 
in subsection 11-4-12E2 11-4-11E2 of this title. 
SKETCH PLAN: A sketch preparatory to the preparation of a Final Subdivision Plat or Final Site 
Plan. 
SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE: A certiﬁcation by a registered land surveyor which appears on a 
Final Subdivision Plat or Record of Survey ﬁnal subdivision plat, record of survey, or ﬁnal site 
plan. 
VARIANCE, SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES: A circumstance which complies with subsection 11-
4-10E 11-4-9E of this title. 
VARIANCE, UNREASONABLE HARDSHIP: A hardship which complies with subsection 11-4-
   i i  17
EXHIBIT A 
Appendix B: Master Plan Development Deed Restricted Open Space Land 
Calculation 
 
 
Bonus Density Calculation 
If the number of lots in a proposed Subdivision within an MPD is greater than the Base 
Density, then so long as: a) the number and conﬁguration of the Lots complies with 
section 11-4-12 11-4-11 of this title, and b) the greater of either the Deed Restricted 
Open Space required by this appendix or the ten percent (10%) Open Space minimum 
requirement of subsection 11-4-12E6 11-4-11E6 of this title is set aside, the Applicant 
shall be entitled to such increased number of Lots in excess of Base Density. The 
amount of required Deed Restricted Open Space is calculated using the following 
formula: 
 
18
AGENDA ITEM NO. 3
Staff Report
 
 
DATE:
March 
6, 2025
SUBMITTED BY:
Amy Price, Clerk
ITEM TYPE:
Approval
AGENDA SECTION:
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
SUBJECT:
Approval of Minutes: February 20, 2025.
SUGGESTED ACTION:
ESTIMATED TIME:
INTRODUCTION:
BACKGROUND:
CONCLUSION:
 
 
 
EASTERN SUMMIT COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION 
AGENDA ITEM REPORT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENTS:
Draft ESCPC Minutes 02.20.25.pdf
19
MINUTES
SUMMIT COUNTY
Eastern Summit County Planning Commission
SUMMIT COUNTY COURTHOUSE, COUNCIL CHAMBERS
60 NORTH MAIN STREET, COALVILLE, UT, UT, 84017
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2025
Meeting also conducted via Zoom.
Bill Wilde
Clinton Benson
Rich Sonntag
David Darcey
Marion Wheaton
Alex Peterson
Lynda Viti
Peter Barnes
Laura Kuhrmeyer
Amy Price
Brian Craven
Michael Dee
Julie Dee
Kelvin Judd
DRAFT
Welcome/Attendance
Regular Session (6:00 P.M.)
1) Pledge of Allegiance (6:00 P.M.)
2) Public comment for items not on the agenda or pending
applications. (6:00 P.M.)
Commission Chair Peterson opened the meeting for public input at 6:00
p.m.
No members of the public came forward.
Commission Chair Peterson closed the meeting for public input at 6:00
p.m.
3) Approval of Minutes: February 6, 2025. (6:01 P.M.)
20
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Draft ESCPC Minutes 02.06.25.pdf
Rich Sonntag made a motion to approve the minutes dated
February 6, 2025. Marion Wheaton seconded, and all voted in favor,
(4-0).
Commission Chair Peterson closed the regular session portion of the meeting and
opened the meeting for a work session at 6:02 p.m.
Work Session (6:02 P.M.)
1) Work Session and discussion on a proposed Conditional Use
Permit (CUP)/Master Planned Development (MPD) for a Guest
Lodge located on Parcel NS-852. Administrative Review. Project
#24-006.Laura Kuhrmeyer, County Planner. (6:03 P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Hope Recovery Ranch MPD Work Session 2.20.25
Attachment: Exhibit A: Written Description of the Proposal
Attachment: Exhibit B: Proposed Final Site Plan
Attachment: Exhibit C: Floodplain Development Permit Placard
Attachment: Exhibit D: Drinking Water Quality Testing
Attachment: Exhibit E: Water Quality Testing
Attachment: Exhibit F: Order of the State Engineer for Permanent
Change
Attachment: Exhibit G: Hope River Ranch Water Source Availability
Letter
Attachment: Exhibit H: North Summit Fire District Preliminary Approval
Laura Kuhrmeyer, Planner, introduced a Conditional Use Permit/Master
Planned Development for a Guest Lodge near Echo for work session
discussion.
Applicant, Michael Dee, addressed the Commission and provided a
history of the property and presented his vision for the Guest Lodge as a
residential treatment facility for people who are suffering from substance
abuse.
Commissioner Sonntag asked a clarifying question about the flexibility
of the CUP for other uses. Planner Kuhrmeyer and Mr. Dee responded
to the concern raised about the potential for other uses of the property.
21
Commissioner Wilde raised a question about water on the property and
inquired if it would be a family resort or just for patients. Mr. Dee
responded stating the cabins could potentially be for employee housing
and family members of those in treatment.
Kelvin Judd, Applicant, answered the question about water rights,
quantity, and quality.
Peter Barnes, Community Development Director, clarified information
about the potential uses of the property.
Commissioner Darcey asked a question about the use of the area and
access to the property. Commissioner Benson responded to a concern
about the condition of the road accessing the property. Mr. Dee added
additional comments about the road.
Commissioner Wheaton asked a clarifying question regarding the use of
a guest lodge or guest ranch to which Planner Kuhrmeyer responded.
Commissioner Benson inquired about other locations for the project. He
also asked about limiting the square footage. Planner Kuhrmeyer
responded to the questions of square footage. Commissioner Benson
asked a follow up question about the success rate of these types of
programs. Mr. Dee responded. Julie Dee, Applicant, provided additional
information about relapse rates.
Commissioner Chair Peterson asked a question about lighting and dark
sky compliance and provided comments for future presentations
regarding the proposed uses of the project. Director Barnes commented
and suggested Planner Kuhrmeyer bring information about special
events to the next discussion.
Commission Chair Peterson closed the work session and reopened the regular
session at 7:12 p.m.
Commission Items (7:12 P.M.)
Commission Chair Peterson stated that he was sorry to see Commissioners
Sonntag and Benson rotate off the Commission. He thanked them for their
service. Director Barnes provided additional information about filling vacant
commission seats.
Director Items (7:15 P.M.)
Director Barnes provided an overview of agenda items for upcoming meetings
as well as the potential for additional education and training sessions.
Adjournment (7:16 P.M.)
Clinton Benson made a motion to adjourn. Marion Wheaton seconded,
and all voted in favor, (6-0).
22
23