1.
Public comment for items not on the agenda or pending applications.
2.
Recognition of Bruce Carmichael for time on the Planning Commission.
3.
Ratification of a motion to approve the Glenwild Phase II Amended Subdivision Plat
Amendment to adjust the subdivision
 boundary line of the Common Area Parcel H.
Applicant: Michael Kendell, Summit County Project Engineer. Owner: Glenwild Community
Association. 
Administrative Review. Project #25-009.
Tiffanie N. Robinson, Senior Planner.
4.
Public hearing and possible action regarding a Conditional Use Permit (CUP) for an
"Accessory Dwelling Unit"
 (ADU) within Unit 5 of the Altitude Loft Condominiums. 4123 N
Forestdale Drive, Unit 5. Parcel ALTLC-4. Applicant: Geoff Glade. Owner: 
The Crate of Ideas.
Administrative Process. Project #25-027.
Laura Kuhrmeyer, County Planner.
5.
Public hearing and possible action regarding a Conditional Use Permit (CUP) for a Major
Accessory Building (including an Accessory Dwelling Unit) located on a Lot with an existing
Single-Family Dwelling Unit. 7596 Whileaway Road West. 
Parcel SL-H-491 (2.42 acres).
Applicant & Owner: Julie E Ott. Administrative Process. Project #25-038.
Laura Kuhrmeyer, County Planner.
AGENDA 
SNYDERVILLE BASIN PLANNING COMMISSION 
Tuesday, May 13, 2025
NOTICE is hereby given that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission will meet
electronically, via Zoom, and at the anchor location of Sheldon Richins Auditorium
1885 W. Ute Blvd., Park City, UT 84098
(All times listed are general in nature, and are subject to change by the Board Chair)
 
You may attend in person or
 
Join Zoom webinar:
https://summitcountyut.zoom.us/j/98189226475  
OR
To listen by phone only: Dial 1-669-900-9128 or 1-253-215-8782, Webinar ID: 981 8922 6475 
 
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
 
 
 
 
Project 25-027 CUP Altitude Loft Unit 5 ADU Staff Report 5.13.25
Exhibit A: Written Description
Exhibit B: Proposed Plans
Exhibit C: Parking Management Agreement
Exhibit D: Condominium Owners Association Parking Attestation Letter
 
Project 25-038 Major Acc Bldg CUP Staff Report 5.13.25
1
6.
Public hearing and possible action regarding a Conditional Use Permit (CUP) proposing the
Uses of Light Manufacturing and Bar (Brewery and Taproom) within an existing shell
building.
 4175 N Forestdale Drive, Suite 105. 
Parcel PCBC-3 (0.84 acres). Applicant: Rob
Nielson. Owner: Topmark Investments. Administrative Process. Project #25-051.
Laura Kuhrmeyer, County Planner.
7.
Approval of Minutes: April 22, 2025
Exhibits A-E
 
Project 25-051 Offset Brewery CUP SBPC 5.13.25
Exhibits A-B
 
Draft SBPC Minutes 04.22.25.pdf
Commission Items
Director Items
 - Appoint two (2) Planning Commissioners to the Utah Olympic Park Development
Review Committee (UOP-DRC).
Adjourn
To view staff reports available at the end of the Friday before the meeting please visit
www.summitcounty.org.
 
Individuals needing special accommodations pursuant to the Americans with Disabilities Act regarding this meeting may
contact Vicki Geary, Summit County Community Development Department at (435)336-3123.
2
 Community Development Department 
P.O. Box 128 
60 North Main Street 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
summitcounty.org 
 
 
 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
To:   Snyderville Basin Planning Commission   
From:   Laura Kuhrmeyer, County Planner 
Date of Meeting: May 13, 2025 
Type of Item:  Conditional Use Permit (CUP) 
Process:  Administrative Review 
File #:   25-027 
 
 
 
Project Description  
Project Name:   Altitude Lofts, Unit 5 – Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU)  
Applicant(s):   Geoff Glade  
Property Owner(s):  The Crate of Ideas 
Location:   4123 N Forestdale Drive, #5 
Zone District:   Service Commercial (SC) 
Parcel Number and Size: ALTLC-5 (0.00 acres) 
Type of Item:   Conditional Use Permit (CUP) 
Process:   Administrative Review 
Final Land Use Authority: Snyderville Basin Planning Commission 
 
Proposal 
The applicant, on behalf of the owner, is requesting Conditional Use approval for an Accessory 
Dwelling Unit (ADU) in Unit 5 of the Altitude Lofts Condominiums. The applicant states that the 
three-level unit will include a ground floor frame shop (industrial), second-floor offices and 
additional frame shop area, and third floor ADU.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
2 
 
Vicinity Map 
 
 
 
Background 
The Crate Of Ideas LLC is listed as the owner of Parcel ALTLC-5. The property is located at 4123 
N Forestdale Dr #5. Unit #5 is located within a shell building (Building A).  Both buildings on the 
site were approved as an amendment to a Low Impact Permit on May 26, 2022. In September 
of 2022, Buildings A and B were condominiumized and recorded as the Altitude Loft 
Condominiums Plat. Altitude Loft Condominiums are located within the Park City Business 
Center (PCBC) and are subject to the Park City Business Center Development Agreement.   
 
The proposal for Unit 5 includes a warehouse, office, and ADU. The Unit will include space for 
warehousing supplies on the ground floor; office space and warehousing on the second floor; 
and an ADU on the third floor.  
 
The original shell building approval created a third level that exceeds the allowable area for an 
Accessory Dwelling Unit (1,000 square feet). Due to this restriction, the applicant has proposed 
walling off a section of the third level in order to meet the size limitations for ADUs. 
 
The applicant proposes a 961 square foot Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU), with an 
inaccessible/non-occupied space of approximately 176 square feet. The ADU will be accessed 
via a staircase from the second floor. Exhibit B includes the floor plan for this proposal.  
 
Section 10-2-10 of the Snyderville Basin Development Code lists Accessory Dwelling Units as a 
Conditional Use within the Service Commercial Zone. Only one (1) ADU may be permitted per 
commercial unit within the zone. Conditions of Approval have been included to mitigate the 
4
3 
 
potential for two ADUs to be built within this unit. Staff and service providers have reviewed 
the project and found that it complies, as conditioned, with all requirements of the Code and 
the Park City Business Center Development Agreement.  
 
Analysis and Findings 
Chapter 2 - Zone District Requirements 
The subject property is located in the Service Commercial zone district and is within the Lower 
Silver Creek Soils Overlay Zone.   
 
Code Requirement Analysis Finding 
SC Zone District Intent 
The purpose of the service 
commercial/light industrial (SC) zone 
district is to provide appropriate 
locations within the Snyderville Basin 
for service commercial and light 
industrial uses, recognizing that such 
uses provide vital support functions for 
the basin's resort and residential 
economy. 
The proposed business will be 
Park City Fine Arts, which would 
fall within the intended 
commercial/light industrial 
category of uses. Per Condition 
of Approval #7, the 
accompanying ADU will be used 
to provide housing for an 
employee of the business.   
COMPLIES, as 
conditioned 
Minimum Setbacks 
Front = 30’ 
Side = 12’ 
Rear = 12’ 
 
No building setbacks are being 
changed.  The ADU will be 
completed as a part of an 
internal tenant improvement 
project.   
COMPLIES 
Height 
The maximum height allowed is 32’ 
from existing or finished grade, 
whichever results in a greater 
measurement.  
There are no proposed changes 
to the building height with this 
proposal.  
COMPLIES 
Parking 
Parking shall comply with Section 10-4-
9 of this title, and onsite parking will 
be required for all employees expected 
to occupy the building for any given 
shift.  
An Accessory Dwelling Unit is 
required to have one off-street 
parking space. See Condition of 
Approval #3 and analysis under 
Chapter 4 for all applicable 
parking standards.  
COMPLIES, as 
conditioned 
Delivery and Loading Areas 
The loading and unloading of goods 
shall take place entirely onsite and not 
interfere with emergency access.  
Loading and unloading for this 
building can either occur via the 
Overhead Door for Unit 5 or via 
the front entry door.  Condition 
of Approval #9 has been added 
to reiterate that loading or 
unloading may not interfere 
COMPLIES, as 
conditioned 
5
4 
 
with traffic circulation within 
the Altitude Loft Condominium 
area.  
Lower Silver Creek Soils Overlay Zone 
The overlay zone requires a soils study 
for any development or 
redevelopment activity.   
This proposal is for an interior 
tenant improvement. 
Remediation for this site has 
already been completed. 
COMPLIES 
 
Chapter 8 – General Regulations, Accessory Dwelling Unit Criteria (10-8-5) 
The proposal must comply with all criteria for Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU).  
 
Code Requirement Analysis Finding 
Size 
The maximum Floor Area for 
ADUs is one thousand (1,000) sf, 
measured from the inside face of 
the perimeter wall to the inside 
face of the perimeter wall. Wall 
partitions, mechanical rooms, 
hallways, and stairwells are 
included.  
The Floor Area for the proposed ADU 
is 961 square feet, with an 
inaccessible/non-occupied space of 
approximately 176 square feet.  
 
COMPLIES 
ADUs per Lot See Service Commercial Standard: 
ADUs Per Lot (below). 
COMPLIES, as 
conditioned 
Condominium 
Unless approved through the 
Conditional Use process in the SC 
Zone, ADUs shall not be 
established within Condiminium 
Units.  
The proposed ADU is within the SC 
Zone.  
COMPLIES 
Ownership 
The ADU may not be sold 
separately from the associated 
commercial use. 
This proposal does not include the 
separate sale of the ADU. Staff has 
included Condition of Approval #6 to 
reiterate this standard.  
COMPLIES, as 
conditioned 
Rental Term 
Nightly rentals are prohibited in 
ADUS. Rental terms for the ADU 
shall be no less than thirty (30) 
days. 
This proposal does not include 
nightly rental of the ADU. Condition 
of Approval #8 reiterates this 
standard. 
COMPLIES, as 
conditioned 
Parking 
In addition to the requirement 
for the primary use, a minimum 
of one (1) off-street parking 
space must be provided.  
The property is subject to the 
Altitude Loft Condominiums Parking 
Management Plan (Exhibit C). One of 
the reserved spaces allocated for the 
unit must be reserved for the 
COMPLIES, as 
conditioned 
6
5 
 
occupant of the ADU, as outlined in 
Condition of Approval #3. All 
applicable parking standards are 
identified under the Chapter 4 
analysis table below.  
Certificate of Occupancy 
A certificate of occupancy for an 
ADU shall only be granted 
concurrent with or after the 
issuance of a certificate of 
occupancy for the associated 
commercial use.  
Condition of Approval #5 reiterates 
this standard. 
COMPLIES, as 
conditioned 
Review 
The Applicant for an Accessory 
Dwelling Unit must submit a floor 
plan, and Site plan showing the 
proposed location, size, layout, 
and any proposed changes to an 
existing Structure or Site as part 
of the building permit or 
Conditional Use Permit submittal. 
The applicant submitted all required 
materials to review and process this 
CUP.  
COMPLIES 
Septic 
 
All development within PCBC is 
connected to sewer. The Snyderville 
Basin Water Reclamation District did 
not raise concerns with the proposal.  
COMPLIES 
Water Summit Water has indicated there is 
adequate water for the proposal.  
COMPLIES 
Service Commercial Standard: 
ADUs Per Lot 
Only one (1) ADU is permitted 
per unit in a condominium plat 
within the SC zone. 
Only one ADU is proposed within this 
Unit. Condition of Approval #2 
reiterates that only one ADU has 
been approved for this Unit.   
COMPLIES, as 
conditioned 
Service Commercial Standard: 
Residency Restriction 
Condition of Approval #7 requires 
that the resident of the ADU must be 
either the owner or an employee of 
the associated business.  
COMPLIES, as 
conditioned 
Service Commercial Standard: 
Business Operations 
The applicant has not submitted 
verification of business operation at 
this time. Verification of business 
operation and Business License must 
be submitted prior to the Certificate 
of Occupancy for the ADU. 
Conditions of Approval 5 and 6 
COMPLIES, as 
conditioned 
7
6 
 
reiterate this standard.  
Conditional Use Permit Criteria  
No conditional use permit shall be approved unless the applicant demonstrates that: 
  
Standard 1: The use is in accordance with the General Plan. 
  
Analysis: Policy 2.16 of the Snyderville Basin General Plan states that new commercial 
developments should be located in existing commercial areas. This proposal supports 
that policy as Altitude Loft is surrounded by other existing commercial uses and located 
within the Service Commercia Zone. Additionally, Policy 2.40 states that there should be 
a variety of housing types within the Snyderville Basin. The proposed ADU complies with 
that policy.  
 
Standard 2: The use conforms to all applicable provisions of this Title, including, but not limited 
to, any applicable provisions of this Section and Chapter 4 of this Title, the General Plan, and 
State and Federal regulations;  
 
Analysis:  
Code Requirement Analysis Finding 
Environmental Criteria 
*Air Quality 
*Water Quality 
*Watershed Protection 
*Sewage Disposal 
*Wildlife Habitat 
The Summit County Health 
Department and the Snyderville 
Basin Water Reclamation District 
reviewed this project for 
compliance and did not raise any 
concerns.  
COMPLIES 
Critical Lands 
*Wetlands 
*Slopes Exceeding 30% 
*Ridgelines 
*Avalanche Zones 
*Geologic Hazards 
No development is occurring in 
“critical lands” as defined by the 
Code. The structure does not 
encroach into any steep slopes, 
ridgelines, wetlands, streams, or 
ponds. 
COMPLIES 
Open Space Not applicable NOT APPLICABLE 
Water and Water Supply 
Willing to serve letter required prior 
to development permit approval 
The proposal has adequate water 
rights.  
COMPLIES 
Sanitary Sewer 
A line extension agreement must be 
accepted by SBWRD prior to 
development permit approval 
The Snyderville Basin Water 
Reclamation District has already 
agreed to provide sewer services 
to the condominium building.  
COMPLES 
Fire Protection 
Ability to serve a development to 
provide fire protection shall be 
provided, in writing, for all 
The Park City Fire District 
reviewed the proposal and will 
address any life safety features of 
the space at the building permit 
COMPLIES 
8
7 
 
developments. stage. 
Loading and Unloading 
Applicant shall demonstrate 
adequate loading and unloading 
space is available within the 
development. 
Loading and unloading areas are 
located completely onsite and do 
not interfere with emergency, 
vehicular, or pedestrian access to 
this or other lots.  
COMPLIES 
Parking 
Section 10-8-5 (ADUs) requires a 
minimum of one (1) off-street 
parking space for the ADU.  
 
The Service Commercial Zone 
requires onsite parking for all 
employees expected to occupy the 
building for any given shift. 
Parking for Altitude Loft is subject 
to the Parking Management 
Agreement (Exhibit C). The 
Parking Management Agreement 
indicates that the Condominium 
Owner’s Association must attest 
that parking has been reviewed 
and that there is adequate parking 
for the proposed use or uses 
within each Unit.     
 
This application is for an 
Accessory Dwelling Unit which 
requires a minimum of one off-
street parking space.   
 
The Condominium Owner’s 
Association has indicated there is 
adequate parking for this Unit 
(Exhibit D).   
COMPLIES 
Internal Parking Lot Landscaping 
At least 15% of the internal portion of 
a parking lot shall be landscaped. 
 
There are no proposed changes to 
the parking area that differ from 
previous approvals.  
COMPLIES 
Parking Lot Snow Storage 
Uncovered parking lots shall provide 
snow storage equal to 10% of the 
uncovered parking lot surface.  
There are no proposed changes to 
the parking area that differ from 
previous approvals.  
COMPLIES 
Transportation Infrastructure and 
Access Design 
No concerns were raised. COMPLIES 
Public Utilities 
A letter shall be obtained from the 
public utility companies that will 
provide service to the development. 
The proposal was reviewed by all 
applicable service providers. No 
concerns were raised. 
COMPLIES 
Mail Delivery 
Locations for mail delivery should be 
shown on the final site plan and 
No changes to mail delivery are 
proposed.  
COMPLIES 
9
8 
 
written approval from the 
postmaster provided. 
Solid Waste and Recycling 
Garbage and Recycling Containers 
need to be identified on the site plan 
and located within a completely 
enclosed structure.  
Garbage and recycling will remain 
as previously approved.  
COMPLIES 
Snow Removal and Storage 
Development shall provide adequate 
area for snow removal.  
There is adequate snow storage 
area on site. 
COMPLIES 
Police and Security 
Prior to submitting an application for 
development approval, the applicant 
shall obtain certification as to 
compliance with this standard. 
No concerns raised.  COMPLIES 
Parks, Trails, and Trailheads 
All development shall provide 
neighborhood park facilities in a 
manner that is sufficient to meet the 
specific recreational demands 
generated by the development. 
No trails, trailheads, or parks are 
impacted by the proposal. 
COMPLIES 
ADA Access 
All building intended for public use 
shall be accessible to the disabled, as 
per the requirements of the 
international building code and the 
Americans with disabilities act. 
ADA access will be reviewed 
through the building permit 
process. There are sufficient ADA 
accessible parking spaces.  
COMPLIES 
Special Site Design Requirements No special site design 
requirements apply.  
COMPLIES 
Architectural Regulations for All 
Structures 
No changes are being proposed.  COMPLIES 
Landscape Regulations No changes are being proposed. COMPLIES 
Lighting Regulations 
 
No changes are being proposed. COMPLIES 
Height Regulations 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
No changes are being proposed. COMPLIES 
 
 
Standard 3: The use is not detrimental to public health, safety and welfare;  
 
Analysis: Staff finds no evidence that the proposed ADU will have a detrimental impact 
on the health, safety, and welfare of the community. The Summit County Building, 
Health, and Engineering Departments reviewed the project and did not raise any 
concerns. COMPLIES 
10
9 
 
 
Standard 4: The use is appropriately located with respect to public facilities,  
   
Analysis: There are appropriate police and fire services, transportation facilities, and 
water and sewer infrastructure available to the site. COMPLIES 
 
Standard 5: The use is compatible with the existing neighborhood character and with the 
character and purpose provision of the applicable zoning district, and will not adversely affect 
surrounding land uses.  
 
Analysis: Section 10-8-5 of the Code states that ADUs are conditional uses within the SC 
Zone and are therefore compatible with the zone district. Similar proposals have been 
approved within the Development Agreement area. COMPLIES 
 
Special CUP Standards: In addition to the standards established in this section and in chapter 4 
of [the Code] for particular uses, all conditional uses within a zoning district shall conform to 
the following standards and criteria: 
 
Code Requirement Analysis Finding 
Escrow for Extraordinary Costs 
The commission may require the 
applicant subject to an application for 
CUP approval to establish or post a bond 
for infrastructure improvements, 
including any conditions of approval. 
The Summit County 
Engineering Department 
reviews bonds during the 
Building Permit review.  
COMPLIES 
No Reduction in Level of Services 
The proposed development shall not 
cause a reduction in the adopted level 
of service for any public facility. 
No public facilities will be 
negatively impacted by this 
proposal.  
COMPLIES 
Lighting See analysis under Standard 2 
table above. 
COMPLIES 
Preserve Topography, Soils, Critical 
Areas, etc. 
The natural topography, soils, critical 
areas, watercourses and vegetation 
shall be preserved whenever possible.  
No changes are proposed   COMPLIES 
Roads  
All roads shall provide free movement 
for safe an efficient use within a 
development. 
This proposal will not cause 
road congestion or create 
public safety problems. 
COMPLIES 
Vehicle and Pedestrian Passageways 
Vehicular and pedestrian passageways 
shall be separated from public rights of 
No pedestrian pathways will be 
affected by the proposal. The 
proposal utilizes the existing 
COMPLIES 
11
10 
 
way. Pedestrian pathways shall be 
provided. 
road network within Altitude 
Loft.  
Scale of Buildings 
Buildings shall provide a human scale.  
No changes are proposed.  COMPLIES 
Runoff 
Volume of post- development runoff 
shall not exceed pre-development 
runoff. 
No changes are proposed.    COMPLIES 
Landscaping See analysis under Standard 2 
table above. 
COMPLIES 
 
Public Notice, Meetings and Comments   
Notice for a public hearing for this amendment to the Conditional Use Permit (CUP) was 
published in the Park Record and on public notice websites. Courtesy postcards were sent to all 
property owners within 1,000 feet of the subject property.  At the time of publishing this 
report, no public comment has been received. 
 
Recommendation 
Staff recommends that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission (SBPC) review the proposed 
Conditional Use Permit, conduct a  public hearing, and approve the Conditional Use Permit for 
an Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) in Altitude Lofts Unit 5, pursuant to the following Findings of 
Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Conditions of Approval. 
    
Findings of Fact: 
1. On March 13, 2025, the applicant submitted a Conditional Use Permit (CUP) application 
to construct an Accessory Dwelling Unit within the top floor of Unit 5 of the Altitude Loft 
Condominiums, located at 4123 Forestdale Dr Unit #5 (Unit ALTLC-5).  
2. Unit ALTLC-5 is owned by The Crate of Ideas LLC. 
3. Unit ALTLC-5 is described as 0.00 acres.  
4. The property is within the Service Commercial Zone.  
5. Unit 5 is located within a shell building (Building A) that was permitted via a Low Impact 
Permit on May 26, 2022.  
6. In September of 2022, Buildings A and B were condominiumized and recorded as the 
Altitude Loft Condominiums plat. 
7. Altitude Loft Condominiums are located within the Park City Business Center and are 
subject to the Park City Business Center Development Agreement 
8. The proposal for Unit 5 includes a warehouse, office, and ADU. The Unit will include 
space for warehousing supplies on the ground floor; office space and warehousing on 
the second floor; and an Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) and deck on the third floor.  
9. Section 10-8-5 of the Snyderville Basin Development Code states that ADUs are a 
Conditional Use within the Service Commercial (SC) Zone.  
12
11 
 
10. Section 10-8-5 clarifies that ADUs shall be measured from the inside face of the 
perimeter wall to the inside face of the perimeter wall, including all wall partitions, 
mechanical rooms, hallways, and stairwells.  
11. The original shell building approval created a third level that exceeds the allowable area 
for an Accessory Dwelling Unit (1,000 square feet). Due to this restriction, the applicant 
has proposed walling off a section of the third level in order to meet the size limitations 
for ADUs. 
a. The applicant proposes a 961 square foot Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU), 
with an inaccessible/non-occupied space of approximately 176 square feet. The 
ADU will be accessed via a staircase from the second floor. Exhibit B includes the 
floor plan for this proposal.  
12. Only one (1) ADU may be permitted per commercial unit within the zone. 
Conditions of Approval have been included to mitigate the potential for two ADUs to be 
built within this unit. 
13. Parking for Altitude Loft Condominiums was approved in accordance with a Parking 
Management Agreement, which states that the Condominium Owner’s Association 
(COA) must review and attest to adequate parking for the uses proposed in each Unit 
prior to tenant improvements. The COA has provided a letter of attestation, attached as 
Exhibit D. 
14. A minimum of one off-street parking space is required for an Accessory Dwelling Unit.   
15. The Condominium Owner’s Association attested that there is sufficient parking for the 
commercial use and the Accessory Dwelling Unit, see Exhibit D.   
16. Staff reviewed the proposal and found that it complied with all requirements in the 
Code.  
 
Conclusions of Law:  
1. The use is in accordance with the general plan. 
2. The use conforms to all applicable provisions of the Code, including, but not limited to, 
any applicable provisions of Section 10-3-5, Chapter 4, and state and federal regulations. 
3. The use is not detrimental to public health, safety, and welfare. 
4. The use is appropriately located with respect to public facilities. 
5. The use is compatible with the existing neighborhood character and with the purpose 
provisions of the applicable zone district, and will not affect surrounding land uses. 
 
Conditions of Approval: 
1. The construction of the Accessory Dwelling Unit must be done in accordance with the 
plans included in Exhibit A. No modification to the Accessory Dwelling Unit is permitted 
without written approval from the Community Development Department and any 
relevant service providers.  
2. The third floor (with the exception of the area labeled as “inaccessible non-occupied 
space”) has been approved for residential use as an Accessory Dwelling Unit.  No 
additional portion of the unit may be used for residential purposes.   
3. At least one of the reserved parking spaces for Unit 5 must be reserved for the tenant of 
the Accessory Dwelling Unit.  
13
12 
 
4. Verification of business operation and Business License must be submitted prior to the 
Certificate of Occupancy for the Accessory Dwelling Unit. 
5. A certificate of occupancy for the Accessory Dwelling Unit shall only be granted 
concurrent with or after the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the associated 
commercial use. The Accessory Dwelling Unit may not be occupied prior to the 
associated commercial use receiving all necessary permits and approvals from service 
providers.  
6. The Accessory Dwelling Unit may not be sold separately from the associated commercial 
use.  
7. The Accessory Dwelling Unit may not be rented by anyone without affiliation to the 
associated commercial use. At least one (1) resident of the Accessory Dwelling Unit 
must be either the owner or employee of the associated business.  
8. Nightly or short-term rental of the Accessory Dwelling Unit is prohibited. The rental 
term of the Accessory Dwelling Unit shall be no less than thirty (30) days.  
9. Loading and unloading of materials related to the commercial use may not interfere 
with traffic circulation.  
10. Prior to building permit issuance for this tenant improvement project, all service 
provider requirements shall be satisfied.  
    
  
Attachments  
Exhibit A – Written Description 
Exhibit B – Proposed Plans 
Exhibit C – Parking Management Agreement 
Exhibit D – Condominium Owner’s Association Parking Attestation Letter  
 
14
"The owners of the ADU own and operate art galleries on Main Street in Park City. The owners are 
relocating their framing shop from Main St. to the new building on 4123 N. Forestdale Dr, Unit 5. The 
framing shop will be on the first and second level of the condo. The third level will be a live/work 
ADU that the owner will use as an office as well as living space.  
 
The frame shop hours are from 9am-5pm M-F . There will be 2-3 employees working in the frame 
shop with very little to no work activity adversely affecting the others living or working in 
development. No exterior modifications will be made. The condominiums have an HOA that 
manages the snow removal and landscaping. " 
 
15
REF. 
UP UP UP 
W/D 
UP 
REF. 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION 
THIS PROJECT CONSISTS OF THE BUILDOUT OF AN EXISTING 4.090 SF TENANT 
SPACE THAT WAS LEFT AS ONLY A SHELL IN THE PREVIOUSLY COMPLETED 
PROJECT. 
THE SPACE WILL CONSIST OF FRAME SHOP SPACE ON LEVEL-1 AND LEVEL -2, 
OFFICE SPACE ON LEVEL -2 AND THEN A DWELLING UNIT ON LEVEL -3
APPLICABLE CODES 
BUILDING 2021 IBC 
2021 IEBC 
MECHANICAL 2021 IMC 
ELECTRICAL 2020 NEC 
PLUMBING 2021 IPC 
ADA ICC A117.1, 2017 
ENERGY ASHRAE 90.1, 2021 
BUILDING DATA 
USE GROUP/OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION: F-1, B, R -2
CONSTRUCTION TYPE: V-B
FULLY SPRINKLERED PER NFPA 13: YES 
TOTAL OCCUPANT LOAD: 70 
PLUMBING FIXTURE COUNT REQD/ PROVIDED 
F-1 AND B 
PROPOSED WATER CLOSETS: 2/2 
PROPOSED LAVS: 2/2 
DRINKING FOUNTAIN: 1/2 
MOP SINK: 1/1 
R-2: 
PROPOSED WATER CLOSETS: 1/1 
PROPOSED LAVS: 1/1 
BATH/SHOWER: 1/1 
WASHER CONNECTION: 1/1 
KITCHEN SINK: 1/1 
DEFERRED SUBMITTALS 
THE FOLLOWIG ITEMS ARE TO BE DEISGNED AND 
PERMITTED AS DEFERRED SUBMITTALS SPECIFIC TO 
THIS TI PROJECT. 
1.  FIRE ALARM SYSTEM 
2. FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEM MODIFICATIONS 
THESE SYSTEMS ARE TO BE REVIEWED AND UPDATED 
AS NEEDED. THEY ARE NOT APPROVED ASP PART OF 
THIS SUBMITTED PACKAGE 
EXTERIOR SIGNAGE 
ALL EXTERIOR SIGNAGE WILL BE REVIEWED AS A 
SEPERATE PERMIT. ELECTRICAL ROUGH -IN FOR NEW 
SIGNAGE WILL BE PROVIDED IN THIS PERMIT PACKAGE FIRE SEPARATIONS PER OCCUPANCY: 
F-1 / B:  0 HOURS 
B / R -2: 1 HOUR (WITH SPRINKLERS) 
FLOOR BETWEEN LEVEL -2 AND LEVEL -3 TO 
PROVIDE A 1 HOUR FIRE SEPARATION 
STAIR ENCLOSURE TO BE 1 -HOUR RATED 
FRAME SHOP: INDUSTRIAL 
1,386 SF / 100 = 14 OCC 
FEC 
EXISTING 1 -HOUR RATED DEMISING WALL 
EXISTING 1 -HOUR RATED DEMISING WALL 
1 HR RATED 
PARTION 
45 MIN. RATED DOOR 
MECH 
OFFICES: BUSINESS 
858 SF / 150 = 6 OCC 
FRAME SHOP: INUSTRIAL 
692 SF / 100 = 7 OCC 
FEC 
14 
EXISTING 1 -HOUR RATED DEMISING WALL 
EXISTING 1 -HOUR RATED DEMISING WALL 
1 HR RATED 
PARTION 
45 MIN. RATED DOOR 
OPEN TO 
BELOW 
PATIO: ASSEMBLY 
551 SF / 15 = 38 OCC 
R-2
961 SF / 200 = 5 OCC 
FEC 
43 
TOTAL TRAVEL DISTANCE: 88' 
ALLOWABLE DISTANCE: 250' 
EXISTING 1 -HOUR RATED DEMISING WALL 
EXISTING 1 -HOUR RATED DEMISING WALL 
1 HR RATED 
PARTION 
45 MIN. RATED 
DOOR 
INACCESSIBLE NON -
OCCUPIED SPACE 
380 NORTH 200 WEST 
SUITE 105 
BOUNTIFUL, UTAH 84010 
801.949.7513 
REVISIONS 
PROJECT NUMBER: 
12.20.2024 
3/27/2025 3:58:37 PM 
000 
COVER & 
CODE INFO 
PARK CITY ARTS TI 
4123 N. FORESTDALE DR, UNIT-5 PARK CITY, UTAH 84098
PERMIT DOCUMENTS 12.20.2024 
24025 
The PROJECT TEAM 
ARCHITECT 
WALLITECTURE 
380 NORTH 200 WEST, SUITE 105 
BOUNTIFUL, UTAH 84010 
801.949.7513 
JUSTIN WALLIS 
GENRAL CONTRACTOR 
BARR CONSTRUCTION 
PO Box 301 
Farmington UT 84025 
801.906.9292 
KAMERON BARR 
DRAWING INDEX 
Sheet 
Number Sheet Name 
GENERAL 
000 COVER & CODE INFO 
001 PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS 
C2 OVERALL SITE PLAN 
LP-101 OVERALL LANDSCAPE PLAN 
ARCHITECTURAL 
A1.01 FLOOR PLANS 
A1.11 REFLECTED CEILING PLAN 
A3.01 SECTIONS / DETAILS 
A4.01 ENLARGED PLANS AND ELEVATIONS 
A4.02 ENLARGED PLANS AND ELEVATIONS 
A5.01 DETAILS 
A5.02 DETAILS 
A6.01 SCHEDULES AND DETAILS 
A6.02 DOORS AND GLAZING 
STRUCTURAL 
S1 GENERAL NOTES & STRUCTURAL DETAILS 
ELECTRICAL ENGINEER 
FELLEX ENGINEERING 
801.913.3111 
SUSSI FELLESON 
MECHANICAL ENGINEER 
STEP PEAK DESIGN SERVICES 
15441 SOUTH ARNOLD HOLLOW RD 
HERRIMAN, UTAH 84096 
801.232.8059 
JOSE GALVAN 
SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0" 
LEVEL-1 LIFE SAFETY PLAN 1 SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0" 
LEVEL-2 LIFE SAFETY PLAN 2 SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0" 
LEVEL-3 LIFE SAFETY PLAN 3
FIRE EXTINGUISHER CABNIET 
.
14 
12 EGRESS PATH / OCCUPANT COUNT 
FEC 
SITE MAP 
NOT TO SCALE 
AREA OF SCOPE OF WORK 
UNIT -5
DRAWING INDEX 
Sheet 
Number Sheet Name 
S2 FTG & FND PLAN - 2ND FLOOR FRAMING PLAN 
S3 STRUCTURAL DETAILS 
MECHANICAL 
M100 COVER PAGE 
M101 RADIANT PLANS 
M102 MECHANICAL PLANS 
M103 MECHANICAL PLANS 
M104 MECHANICAL SCHEDULE 
M105 MECHANICAL PLANS 
M106 FIRE CAULK DETAIL 
M107 FAN COIL DETAIL 
M108 DUCT DETAIL 
PLUMBING 
P100 PLUMBING COVER PAGE 
P101 PLUMBING PLANS 
P102 PLUMBING PLANS 
P103 PLUMBING PLANS 
P104 PLUMBING SCHEDULE 
P201 WASTE AND VENT PLANS 
P202 WASTE AND VENT PLANS 
P203 WASTE AND VENT PLANS 
P204 PLUMBING DETAIL 
G101 GAS PIPING PLANS 
G102 GAS PIPING PLANS 
G103 GAS PIPING PLANS 
ELECTRICAL 
E1.1 POWER PLANS 
E2.1 LIGHTING PLANS 
E3.1 ONELINE, SCHEDULES AND NOTES 
40 
STRUCTURAL ENGINEER 
ALDAVE & ASSOCIATES L.C. 
1486 E. BARTON CREEK LN. 
BOUNTIFUL, UT 84010 
801.557.5524 
ANDRES ALDAVE 
NORTH 
NORTH 
# Description Date 
1 Addendum-01 02.28.2025 
2 Addendum-02 03.27.2025 
16
Recording Requested By and EN T RY NO . 01190794
When Recorded Return to: 2 G
07 PM B: 2745 P: 0194
°ad"W% MATE ""®"°'"
Summit County
Attention:County Recorder
60 N Main Street
P.O. Box 128
Coalville,UT 84017
For Recording Purposes Do
Not Write Above This Line
PARKING MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT
(AltitudeLofts)
Summit County, Utah,a Utah politicalsubdivision,("County"), and AltitudeLofts,LLC,
aUtah limitedliabilitycompany ("Owner"), t intothisParkingManagement Agreement (this
"Agreement") asofthis IW day of 2022, and agreeassetforthbelow. The County
and theOwner arejointlyreferredtoasthe"Parties."Each partymay be referredtoasa"Party."
RECITALS
WHEREAS, Owner has appliedforaLow Impact Permittodevelop Lot __ ofthePark
CityBusinessCenter,4123 N. ForestdaleDrive,more particularlydescribedinExhibitA (the
"Property"),asan eleven(1l)unitcommercial condominium project("Units"orindividually,
"Unit");
WHEREAS, thePark CityBusinessCenterisgovemed by restrictivecovenants,which
limittheallowed useswithinthebusinesscentertothosethatdo notresultinan excessive
demand forparking,do notresultintrafficorparkingpatternsthatobstructpedestrianor
vehicularaccessorobstructForestdaleDrive;
WHEREAS, despitethePark CityBusiness Centercovenants,County isaware of
development and useswithinthePark CityBusinessCenterthatgeneratean excessivedemand
forparkingcompared tosurfaceparkingprovided withinthePropertyand thatcause spillover
parkingontoForestdaleDrive;
WHEREAS, while County isnotapartytothePark CityBusinessCenter covenantsand
has no abilitytoenforcesuch covenantstopreventexcessiveparkingdemand, even ifitwere a
party,County isnotstaffedtoenforceparkingissuesthatspilloverfrom privateproperty;
17
WHEREAS, Owner has proposed an alternativetothecurrentspilloverparkingsituation
inthePark CityBusinessCenter,by agreeingtoself-regulateparkingdemand throughtheinitial
and subsequentsalesofUnitswith thePropertyand themanagement ofparkingtherein,by
disclosingtoeach purchaserthattheuseofeach Unit issubstantiallyconstrainedby limited
parkingallocatedtoeach Unit,by assigningspecificparkingspacestospecificUnits,and by
contractinghereintotaketheresponsibilitytoprescreeneverybusinessuse foritsparking
demand, inthreeways: 1)priortoaUnit owner's applicationfora buildingpermittoconstruct
tenantimprovements associatedwith a unit,trackalluseswithinthePropertyand allocateand
enforcespecificparkingspacesforeach use,such thattheblended parkingdemand foralluses
withinthePropertydoes notexceed thenumber ofsurfaceparkingspaceson theProperty;2)
routinelymonitor theefficacyofparkingmanagement system;and 3)verifytotheCounty,
throughaparkingstatuslettersystem,akintoa "will-serve"letteroran HOA architectural
approvalletter,thata particularapplicanthas sufficientparkingwithinthePropertypriortoeach
applicationfora buildingpermitfortenantimprovements, priortoeach applicationfora
businesslicensewithinthePropertyand ateach annual businesslicenserenewal;
WHEREAS, County has agreedtorefrainfrom issuinga buildingpermitorabusiness
licensetoany businesswithinthePropertythatcannot show a parkingstatusapprovalletter
datedwithin30 days oftheapplicationand addressedtotheCounty with itsbuildingpermit
application,itsinitialbusinesslicenseapplicationand ateach annualrenewal ofthebusiness
license;
WHEREAS, on March 22,2022,theSummit County PlanningCommission
recommended thattheCounty Manager approve theAltitudeLoftsCondominium Project,
conditionedon Owner's willingnesstoenterintothisAgreement.
NOW THEREFORE, thePartiesagreeasfollows:
L Owner Responsibilities.
1.1 DisclosureofLimited Business-RelatedParking.Owner shalldisclose,and shall
causethecontinuousdisclosuretoallsubsequentpurchasers,thatbusinessuseswithin
thePropertyare:
1.1.1restrictedtoonlythoseusesthatareallowed by allcovenantsthatburden the
Propertyand areallowed by theCounty;
1.1.2limitedtobusinessuseswithparkingdemand thatdo notexceed theparking
allocatedtotheUnit throughownership orlease,and confirmed by theBoard of
DirectorsoftheAltitudeLoftsCondominium Owner's Association("Board");
and
1.13 requiredtoobtainaparkingconsentletterfrom theBoard priorto
applicationfora buildingpermitfortenantimprovements withintheProperty,
priortoapplicationfora businesslicensetotheCounty, and priortoeach annual
renewal ofa businesslicense;
1.2RegulateUses toEnsure Adequate SurfaceParking. Owner shallimplement,
monitor,and enforcea surfaceparkingmanagement system toensurethattheblended use
2
18
ofsurfaceparkingspaceoverany eight-hourshiftdoes notexceed thesurfaceparking
supplyon theProperty.
1.3.Warrant ParkingAllocationtoCounty. For each applicationfortenant
improvements fora businessuse,and foreach applicationforabusinesslicensewithina
Unit oftheProperty,theBoard shallevaluatetheproposed business,thelegallyallocated
parkingforthatbusiness,and theminimum County-requiredsurfaceparkingforthat
business.
1.3.1Based on an applicant'sownership,orlongterm lease,ofspecificsurface
parkingspaceswithintheProperty,and based on theBoard's assessmentof
surfaceparkinguse withintheProperty,theBoard willcertifytotheCounty
whether theapplicanthas securedsuf6cientparkingwithinthePropertyto
accommodate thatbusiness.
1.3.2Inadditiontospecificcovenantsthatprohibitspecificusesand usesin
generalprohibitedcategories,Owner has burdened thePropertywiththe
followingcovenant:
BusinessLicenseAuthorization/Limitationson Parking Demand. Parkingis
limitedwithinthePropertyand withinthePark CityBusiness Center. As such,
many businessuseswillnotbe appropriatewithintheProperty.To preventthe
use ofa Unitthatwould createan inappropriatedemand on parkingwithinthe
Property,orthatwould leadtospilloverparkingwithinthePark CityBusiness
Center,each Owner must requesta letterofapprovalofitsspecificbusinessuse
from theBoard ofDirectorspriortoapplyingtoSummit County fora building
permitforbusiness-relatedimprovements orforabusinesslicensetooperatethat
businesson theProperty.The Board ofDirectorswillcloselyregulaterequests
forapprovalofbusinesses/business-relatedimprovements withinthePropertyand
foreach applicationwillrequesttheminimum parkingrequirementfrom the
County foreach 8-hourshiftthebusinessproposestooperateeach day. Once the
Board ofDirectorsreceivestheminimum parkingrequirementfrom theCounty
theBoard willthenrequireproofofownership,ora long-termleaseorleases,for
allparkingspacestheCounty willrequiretosupporta business-relatedparking
demand. Each Unithas been allocatedtwo (2)ormore surfaceparkingspacesin
designatedLimited Common Area. An Owner may enterintoa long-termlease
with anotherUnitOwner foradditionalsurfaceparkingspaces,which have been
allocatedtothatUnitOwner, butarenotrequiredforthatUnit Owner's use.
Each Owner's businesslicenseisvalidforone calendaryear. Because business-
relatedparkingdemand can change over time,each Unit Owner with a business
must requesta new letterofapprovalofthebusinessparkingfrom theBoard each
year. The Board, initssolediscretion,may deny issuingan initialorsubsequent
annual approvalletterbased on severalfactors,includingwhether the:(1)
businessisan allowed use under theapplicablecovenantsand restrictions;(2)
County's analysisofminimum requiredparkingforthebusinessexceeds the
number of spaceswithinthePropertythatareowned orleasedby theOwner's
business;or(3)Board's experiencewith theparkingdemand actuallygenerated
by thebusinessleadstheBoard tobelievethatthebusinessgeneratesmore
3
19
parkingdemand thanparkingspacesactuallyallocatedtothebusinessOwner by
ownership orlease.
2.County Responsibilities.
2.1 Minimum Parking Requirement. Upon theBoard request,County shallprovidethe
Board with an estimatedminimum parkingdemand fora specificbusinessuse.
2.2 Conditioned Approval ofBuildingPermit forTenant Improvements and Business
License.County shallrefrainfrom issuinga buildingpermitfortenant(orowner's
business-related)improvements and from issuinga businesslicenseon thePropertyuntil
ithas receiveda letterfrom theBoard, verifyingthatthereissufficientparkingavailable
forthatbusinesson theProperty,duringtheexpected businesshours.
2.3 Notice. IfCounty determinesthattheparkingmanagement system established
hereinisfailingtoachievetheCounty's objectivetopreventspilloverparkingfrom the
Property,County shallinform theBoard ofitsconcern and shallprovidetheBoard a
minimum of30 days toassessthecause oftheproblem and attempttocurethespillover
parkingdemand.
2.4Enforcement. IfCounty issuesbusinesslicensestobusinesseson thePropertyafter
firstobtaininga parkingverificationletterforthebusinessfrom theBoard, but,ifafter
propernoticetheCounty determinesthatthecombined usesofthePropertyresultin
spilloverparking,theCounty may specificallyenforcethisagreement and may withhold
allfuturebusinesslicensesforOwner's tenantsinthePark CityBusinessCenter,
includingannualbusinesslicenserenewals,untiltheCounty determinestheparking
spilloverstatusofthePropertyhas been resolved.
3. Term ofthisAgreement. The obligationsofthePartiesofunder thisAgreement shalltakeeffect
asofthedateofthisAgreement, shallrun withtheland,shallbindallsubsequentowners, and
shallcontinueinfullforceand effectuntilallobligationshereunderhave been fullyperformed
and allrightshereunder fullyexercised.UnlessthePartiesmutuallyagreetoextendtheterm
by writtenagreement, thisAgreement shallnot extend beyond a period of fifty(50)years
from itsdateofrecordationintheofficeoftheSummit County Recorder.
4. General Provisions.
4.1 Notices.AllNotices,filings,consents,approvals,and othercommunication providedfor
hereinor given inconnectionherewithshallbe validlygiven,filed,made, deliveredor
servedifinwritingand deliveredpersonallyorsentby registeredorcertifiedU.S.Postal
Servicemail,returnreceiptrequested,postage prepaidtotheaddressesnoted below or
to such otheraddressesaseitherPartymay from time totime designateinwritingand
deliverinlikemanner. Any such change ofaddressshallbe givenatleast10days before
thedateon which thechange istobecome effective:
IftoCounty: ATTN: Summit County Recorder
60 N Main Street
P.O. Box 128
Coalville,UT 84017
4
20
IftoOwner: ATTN: ScottYancey
4554 ForestdaleDr
D-25
Park CityUT 84098
4.2 Mailing Effective.Notices given by mail shallbe deemed deliveredseventy-two 72
hours followingdepositwiththeU.S. PostalServiceinthemanner setforthabove.
4.3 No Waiver. Any Party'sfailuretoenforceany provisionofthisAgreement shallnot
constitutea waiver oftherighttoenforceany otherprovision.The provisionsmay be
waived only inwritingby thePartyintendedtobe benefitedby theprovisions,and a
waiver by a Partyofa breach hereunder by theotherPartyshallnotbe construedasa
waiver of any succeeding breach of the same or otherprovisions.Only the County
Council may waive theCounty's righttoenforce.
4.4 Headings. The descriptiveheadings oftheparagraphs ofthisAgreement areinserted
forconvenience onlyand shallnotcontroloraffectthemeaning orconstructionofany
provisionofthisAgreement.
4.5 Authority.The Partiesrepresenttoone anotherthattheyhave fullpower and authority
toenterintothisAgreement, and thatallnecessaryactionshave been takentogivefull
forceand effecttothisAgreement.
4.6 EntireAgreement. This Agreement, includingitsexhibitsto and allotherdocuments
referredtointhisAgreement, containstheentireagreement ofthePartieswith respect
to the subject matter hereof and supersede any prior promises, representations,
warranties,inducements,orunderstandingsbetween thePartieswhich arenotcontained
insuch agreements,regulatoryapprovals,and relatedconditions.
4.7 Amendment. This Agreement may be amended inwhole orinpartwithrespecttoallor
any portion of the Property by the mutual writtenconsent of the Partiesto this
Agreement.
4.8 Severability.Ifany provisionofthisAgreement isdeclaredvoid orunenforceable,such
provisionshallbe severedfrom thisAgreement. ThisAgreement shallotherwiseremain
in fullforceand effectprovided the fundamental purpose of thisAgreement and the
Owner's abilityto complete the development of thePropertyisnot defeatedby such
severance.
4.9 Governing Law. The laws oftheStateofUtah and thelaws oftheCounty approved as
of the dateof thisAgreement shallgovern the interpretationand enforcement of the
Agreement. The Partiesagreethatthevenue forany actioncommenced inconnection
with thisAgreement shallbe properonly ina courtofcompetent jurisdictionlocatedin
Summit County, Utah. The Partieshereby expresslywaive any righttoobjectto such
choiceoflaw orvenue.
4.10 Default.
i. Ifany Partyfailstoperform itsrespectiveobligationshereunderortocomply
5
21
with theterms hereof,the Partybelievingthata defaulthas occurred shall
providenoticetotheotherPartyasprovidedherein(a"Notice ofDefault").
IfaPartybelievesthatthedefaulthasbeen committed by anotherParty,shall
alsoprovide a courtesycopy of the noticeto each affectedParty. Each
Notice ofDefaultshall:
(1)Specifytheclaimed eventofdefaultby identifyingwithparticularity
specificprovisionsofthisAgreement, and any applicablelaw,rule,
orregulationthatthePartyisclaimed tobe indefault;
(2)Identifywhy thedefaultisclaimed tobe material;and
(3)Ifa Partychooses,initsdiscretion,propose a method and time for
curingthe default,which shallbe of no lessthan thirty(30) days
duration.
ii.Upon theissuanceofaNoticeofDefault,allinterestedPartiesshallhave the
opportunityto meet within twenty (20) business days and confer in an
attemptto resolvethe issuesthatarethe subjectmatter of the Notice of
Default.
4.11 Remedies. If,aftermeeting and conferring,theinterestedPartiesarenotabletoresolve
an allegeddefault,thenthePartiesmay pursue any ofthefollowingremedies:
i. The rightsand remedies availableatlaw and inequity,including,but not
limitedtoinjunctiverelief,specificperformance,and termination;and
ii.The rightto withhold allfurtherlicensesforuse of the Projectuntilsuch
defaultiscured.
4.12 Extended Cure Period. Ifany defaultcannot be reasonablycured withinthirty(30)
days ofNoticeofDefault,thensuch cureperiodmay be extended asneeded,by written
agreement ofthePartiesand forgood causeshown, solongasthenon-defaultingParty
determinesthedefaultingPartyispursuinga curewith reasonablediligence.
4.13 Cumulative Rights.The rightsand remedies setforthhereinarecumulative.
4.14 Force Majeure. Alltimeperiodsimposed orpermittedpursuanttothisAgreement shall
automaticallybe extended and tolledfor:(a)periodofany and allmoratoriaimposed
by theCounty orothergovernmental authoritiesinany respectthatmateriallyaffects
thedevelopment oftheProjectArea;or(b)by eventsreasonablybeyond thecontrolof
Owner including,withoutlimitation,inclementweather,war,strikes,unavailabilityof
essentialmaterialsatcommercially reasonableprices,and actsofGod, butwhich does
notincludefinancialconditionofOwner, oritssuccessorsininterest.Notwithstanding
the foregoing,the ProjectArea shallbe excluded from any moratorium adopted
pursuantto UTAH CODE ANN. §l0-9a-504unlesssuch a moratorium isfound on the
record by the County Council to be necessary to avoid jeopardizinga compelling,
countervailingpublicinterest.
6
22
4.15 Attorneys'Fees and Costs.Ifany Partybringslegalactioneitherbecause ofa breach
oftheAgreement ortoenforceaprovisionoftheAgreement, theprevailingPartyshall
be entitledtoreasonableattorneys'feesand courtcosts,includingthecostofin-house
counsel.
4.16 Binding Effect.The benefitsand burdensofthisAgreement touchand concerntheland,
run with theProperty,and arerealcovenantsand equitableservitudeson theProperty
and shallbe bindingupon and shallinuretothebenefitofeach ofthePartiesand their
respectiveheirs,legal representatives,successors in interest,and assigns.This
Agreement shallbe incorporatedby referenceinany instrumentpurportingtoconvey
an interestintheProperty.
4.17 No Third-PartyRights.The obligationsofthesignatoriesofthisAgreement, shallnot
createany rightsin,orobligationsto,any thirdparties,exceptasspecificallyprovided
herein.
4.18 No Agency Created.Nothing containedintheAgreement shallcreateany partnership,
jointventure,oragency relationshipbetween thecombined Parties.
4.19 Non-Liabilityof County OfficialsorEmployees. No officer,representative,agent,or
employee of the County shallbe personallyliableto Owner, or any successor-in-
interestorassigneeof Owner, intheeventof any defaultor breach by theCounty for
any obligationarisingoutoftheterms ofthisAgreement.
4.20 PublicInformation.The Partiesunderstandand agreethatalldocuments relatedtothis
agreement willbe publicdocuments, asprovided inUTAH CODE ANN. §63G-2-101, et
seq.
4.21 Counterparts.ThisAgreement may be executed inmultiplecounterpartswhich
shallconstituteone and thesame document.
Review. This Agreement shallbe reviewed by thePartieseverytwo (2)years.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, thePartieshave executedthisAgreement asoftheEffective
Date,thisAgreement having been approved by theSummit County pursuanttotheOrdinance
authorizingsuch execution,and by aduly authorizedrepresentativeofby Owner.
For: SUMMIT COUNTY, a Utah municipal corporation
Tom Fisher,Manager
For: ALTITUDE Utah limitedliabilitycompany
SeetM¼neey, Manag
7
23
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
STATE OF UTAH )
:ss.
County ofSummit )
On this1 day of 022, beforetheundersigned notarypublicinand forthesaid
state,personallyappeared Tom Fisher,known or identifiedto me tobe the County Manager of
Summit County, and Rhonda Francis,theOfficialRecorder of Summit County, and thepersons
who executedtheforegoinginstrumenton behalfofsaidCounty and acknowledged tome thatsaid
County executedthesame.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Ihave hereunto se my hand and sealtheday and year first
above written.
®
unvyenæ-smecuma No aryP i forUtah
Comm. #710848
MyCommbskmExpims
FebmaryN,2024
8
24
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
STATE OF UTAH )
:ss.
County ofSummit )
On this $ day of®tpy 2022, beforetheundersigned notarypublicinand fort said
state,personallyappeared b ,known oridentifiedtome tobe themana de
Lofts LLC, a Utah limitedliabilitycompany, and the person who executed foregoing
instrumentand acknowledged tome thatsaidcompany executedthesame.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Ihave hereunto setmy hand and sealthe day and year first
above written.
MackenRocNin
NotmyPublic,StsteofUtah
commission#71757° NOTARY PUBLICuycesW Esa
ApriE2025
9
25
EXHIBIT A
Property Description
Lot 2, Park City Business Center Subdivision 03 CL
10
26
  Altitude Lofts Condominium Association 
  PO Box 1060 
  Park City, UT  84060 
  312.806.3437 
 
 
April 11, 2025 
Summit County: 
The COA for Altitude Lofts has reviewed the parking use case for Unit 5, The Crate of Ideas, LLC, and 
confirmed their use meets the parking restrictions for Altitude Lofts.   We attest they will be able to 
satisfy their employee parking with their three (3) designated outdoor parking spaces. 
If you have any questions, please contact me at the number at the top of the letterhead. 
Thank you, 
 
 
 
Jonathan Taylor 
President of Altitude Lofts Condominium Association 
jon@blitzcapitalgroup.com  
27
 
  
60 North MainP.O. Box 128Coalville, UT 84017 
Phone (435) 336-3133; mmcdonough@summitcounty.org 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
To:   Snyderville Basin Planning Commission   
From:   Laura Kuhrmeyer, County Planner 
Date of Meeting: May 13, 2025 
Type of Item:  Conditional Use Permit (CUP) - Public Hearing, Possible Action 
Process:  Administrative Review 
File #:   25-038 
 
 
Project Description 
Project Name: 7596 Whileaway Road West – Major Accessory Building (with Accessory Dwelling 
Unit)   
Applicant(s): Julie E Ott      
Property Owner(s): Julie E Ott Trustee   
Location: 7596 Whileaway Road West    
Zone District: Rural Residential (RR)    
Parcel Number and Size: SL-H-491; 2.42 acres   
Type of Process: Administrative   
Final Land Use Authority: Snyderville Basin Planning Commission  
 
Proposal 
On February 20, 2025, the Community Development Department received a Conditional Use 
Permit (CUP) application for a Major Accessory Building to be located at 7596 Whileaway Road 
West. The total footprint of the proposed one-story Major Accessory Building is approximately 
2,106 square feet. According to the applicant, the proposed Major Accessory Building will 
contain an Accessory Dwelling Unit (approximately 1,000 square feet), a shop with full 
bathroom and storage closet, and a two-car garage.  
 
28
2 
 
Vicinity Map 
 
 
Background 
Parcel SL-H-491 is located within the Silver Creek Estates Unit H Subdivision, which was platted 
in 1965. 
 
Currently, there is one (1) Minor Accessory Building and a primary residence located on the 
property, which is 2.42 acres. The primary residence has a footprint of approximately 2,500 
square feet. The existing Minor Accessory Building is a pole barn or shed with a footprint of 
approximately 760 square feet.  
 
According to Snyderville Basin Development Code Section 10-8-17, a Major Accessory Building 
requires a Conditional Use Permit (CUP) in the Rural Residential (RR) Zone.  A Major Accessory 
Building is defined below. 
 
ACCESSORY BUILDING, MAJOR: A building or structure greater than two thousand 
(2,000) square feet but not exceeding twelve thousand five hundred (12,500) square 
feet in size which is subordinate to, and the use of which is incidental to that of, the 
principal building, structure or use on the same lot. 
 
The proposed Major Accessory Building will have a footprint of approximately 2,106 square feet 
and will contain an Accessory Dwelling Unit (approximately 1,000 square feet), a shop with full 
bathroom and storage closet, and a two-car garage. Based on the acreage of the lot, the 
maximum allowed size of a Major Accessory Building is 5,000 square feet. An Accessory 
29
3 
 
Dwelling Unit is an allowed use in the Rural Residential (RR) Zone. Accessory Dwelling Units 
shall comply with Development Code 10-8-5. 
  
The Lot is within the Service Area #3 jurisdiction for water. Service Area #3 was provided the 
proposed plans as part of the service provider review and had no concerns. The Approval Letter 
for water, road, and culvert requirements is attached as Exhibit E.  
 
Analysis and Findings 
Chapter 2 - Zone District Requirements 
The subject property is located in the Rural Residential (RR) Zone District (10-2-4). 
 
CODE REQUIREMENT ANALYSIS FINDING 
RR Zone District Intent 
The purpose of the rural residential (RR) 
zone district is to allow existing residential 
uses to remain, allow the construction of 
new single-family dwelling units to be 
constructed upon legally platted lots, to 
allow expansion of such uses in 
accordance with limitations and 
regulations defined in the low impact 
permit process, and permit residential 
uses to be developed in accordance with 
the specific provisions of such previously 
approved agreements. 
This is a platted lot in a 
subdivision with a history 
of residential use. The 
applicant requests to 
continue the residential 
use of the property and 
add an Accessory 
Building with an 
Accessory Dwelling Unit. 
COMPLIES 
Setback Requirements 
Front: 
• Front Setback from Lots/Parcels 
where the property line extends to 
the centerline of the road = 55’ from 
centerline of the road 
• On a corner lot, any frontage with a 
driveway leading to a garage shall 
have a front setback 
Side: 12’ 
Rear: 12’ 
 
As Proposed: 
Front (northwest/ 
Whileaway Rd): ~210’ 
Front (northeast/ 
Wasatch Lane): ~56’ 
from centerline of 
road 
Side (southeast): ~225’  
Rear (southwest): ~107’ 
 
COMPLIES 
Height 
The maximum height for Accessory 
Buildings is 26’ from existing or finished 
grade, whichever results in a greater 
measurement.  
Proposed Maximum 
Building Height 
~20’ 6” 
COMPLIES 
 
 
30
4 
 
Conditional Use Permit Criteria for Approval 
No Conditional Use Permit (CUP) shall be approved unless the applicant demonstrates that: 
  
Standard 1: The use is in accordance with the General Plan.  COMPLIES 
  
Analysis: The enabling language in the Snyderville Basin Development Code originates in 
the Snyderville Basin General Plan. The proposed use, a Major Accessory Building, is a 
permitted use in residentially zoned areas. 
 
“Policy 2.12: Maintain the residential character of existing residential neighborhoods.” 
 
Standard 2: The use conforms to all applicable provisions of this Title, including, but not limited 
to, any applicable provisions of this Section and Chapter 4 of this Title, the General Plan, and 
State and Federal regulations;  
 
Analysis: See table below.  
Code Requirement Analysis Finding 
Environmental Criteria 
*Air Quality 
*Water Quality 
*Watershed Protection 
*Sewage Disposal 
*Wildlife Habitat 
This application was 
reviewed by applicable 
service providers and has 
been found to be in 
compliance with standards 
for air quality, water 
quality, watershed 
protection, and sewage 
disposal. 
COMPLIES 
Critical Lands 
*Wetlands 
*Slopes Exceeding 30% 
*Ridgelines 
*Avalanche Zones 
*Geologic Hazards 
The applicant is not 
proposing any development 
in areas identified as critical 
lands.   
COMPLIES 
Open Space There are no open space 
requirements for this 
proposal. 
NOT APPLICABLE 
Water and Water Supply 
 
Service Area 3 has 
determined that the 
requirements for water, 
road, and culverts have 
been met. 
COMPLIES 
Sanitary Sewer 
 
This area is serviced by 
individual septic systems.  
The Health Department has 
indicated that septic will 
COMPLIES, as 
conditioned 
31
5 
 
need to be approved prior 
to the issuance of a building 
permit, see Condition of 
Approval #1.   
 
Fire Protection 
Ability to serve a development to provide 
fire protection shall be provided, in 
writing, for all developments. 
Park City Fire District has no 
objections to the CUP 
application.  
COMPLIES 
Loading and Unloading 
Applicant shall demonstrate adequate 
loading and unloading space is available 
within the development. 
This is a residential site with 
access via a driveway.  
COMPLIES 
Parking The proposed structure has 
a two-car garage which will 
satisfy the parking 
requirement for an 
Accessory Dwelling Unit. 
Parking for the remainder 
of the site is already 
provided elsewhere. 
COMPLIES 
Internal Parking Lot Landscaping 
At least 15% of the internal portion of a 
parking lot shall be landscaped. 
 
Does not apply NOT APPLICABLE 
Parking Lot Snow Storage 
Uncovered parking lots shall provide snow 
storage equal to 10% of the uncovered 
parking lot surface.  
 
Does not apply NOT APPLICABLE 
Transportation Infrastructure and Access 
Design 
Does not apply COMPLIES 
Public Utilities 
A letter shall be obtained from the public 
utility companies that will provide service 
to the development. 
Electrical and water utilities 
will be extended to the 
proposed Accessory 
Building. 
COMPLIES 
Mail Delivery 
Locations for mail delivery should be 
shown on the final site plan and written 
approval from the postmaster. 
Mail delivery will remain 
the same. 
COMPLIES 
Solid Waste and Recycling 
Garbage and Recycling Containers need to 
be identified on the site plan and located 
within a completely enclosed structure.  
Garbage and recycling 
service will remain the 
same. 
COMPLIES 
32
6 
 
Snow Removal and Storage 
Development shall provide adequate area 
for snow removal.  
The applicant has 
demonstrated adequate 
area for snow storage. 
COMPLIES 
Police and Security 
Prior to submitting an application for 
development approval, the applicant shall 
obtain certification as to compliance with 
this standard. 
No concerns have been 
raised by applicable service 
providers. 
COMPLIES 
Parks, Trails, and Trailheads 
All development shall provide 
neighborhood park facilities in a manner 
that is sufficient to meet the specific 
recreational demands generated by the 
development. 
Does not apply NOT APPLICABLE 
ADA Access 
All building intended for public use shall be 
accessible to the disabled, as per the 
requirements of the international building 
code and the Americans with disabilities act. 
This is a private residential 
use, so this does not apply. 
NOT APPLICABLE 
Special Site Design Requirements 
• Privacy 
• Front, Side, and Rear Yards 
 
The proposed Accessory 
Building is in compliance 
with Zone required front, 
side, and rear Setbacks. 
COMPLIES 
Architectural Regulations for All Structures 
 
Staff has reviewed the plans 
for compliance with 
Architectural Regulations 
(10-4-19) and found 
compliance. 
COMPLIES 
Landscape Regulations 
All new development requiring a land use 
permit shall comply with the landscape 
requirements. All projects that increase the 
SF of an existing building or parking 
requirement by 20% or more shall also 
comply. 
The applicant proposes to 
revegetate disturbed areas 
with high mountain pasture 
and add a minimum of 
three (3) trees on the 
southwest side of the new 
ADU. The proposed front 
yard landscaping includes 
wood chip with native 
species of bushes and 
flowers. 
COMPLIES 
Lighting Regulations 
All development permit applications that 
propose exterior outdoor lighting or street 
lighting shall include a lighting plan. 
All proposed exterior 
lighting is compliant with 
10-4-21, see Condition of 
Approval #2. 
COMPLIES, as 
conditioned 
Height Regulations The maximum height of the COMPLIES 
33
7 
 
The maximum height allowed for an 
Accessory Building is 26’ from existing or 
finished grade, whichever results in a 
greater measurement.  
proposed structure is 
approximately twenty feet 
and six inches (20’6”). 
 
 
Standard 3: The use is not detrimental to public health, safety and welfare. COMPLIES 
 
Analysis: Staff can find no evidence that the proposed Major Accessory Building will 
have a negative impact on the general health, safety, and welfare of the people of 
Summit County. 
 
 
Standard 4: The use is appropriately located with respect to public facilities. COMPLIES  
   
Analysis: All necessary public facilities are available on site, including water, septic, and 
roads. Parking, internal circulation, and access have been reviewed by the Summit 
County Engineering Department and found to be adequate. 
 
Standard 5: The use is compatible with the existing neighborhood character and with the 
character and purpose provision of the applicable zoning district, and will not adversely affect 
surrounding land uses. COMPLIES 
 
Analysis: A determination of compatibility with the neighborhood was made when the 
use was allowed in the zone. To mitigate impacts, staff has included conditions of 
approval requiring the applicant meet all applicable service provider comments.   
 
Special CUP Standards: In addition to the standards established in this section and in chapter 4 
of [the Code] for particular uses, all conditional uses within a zoning district shall conform to 
the following standards and criteria: 
 
Code Requirement Analysis Finding 
Escrow for Extraordinary Costs 
The commission may require the applicant 
subject to an application for CUP approval 
to establish or post a bond for infrastructure 
improvements, including any conditions of 
approval. 
No major infrastructure 
improvements are required. 
COMPLIES 
No Reduction in Level of Services 
The proposed development shall not cause 
a reduction in the adopted level of service 
for any public facility. 
There is no evidence to 
suggest that the proposed 
use will cause a reduction in 
the adopted level of service 
for any public facilities. 
COMPLIES 
Lighting See analysis under Standard 
2 table above. 
COMPLIES 
34
8 
 
Preserve Topography, Soils, Critical Areas, 
etc. 
The natural topography, soils, critical areas, 
watercourses and vegetation shall be 
preserved whenever possible.  
The applicant proposes to 
revegetate the disturbed 
area with high mountain 
pasture grass. The Applicant 
proposes to add three (3) or 
more trees in addition to 
front yard landscaping to 
include woodchip with 
native species 
bushes/flowers. 
COMPLIES 
Roads  
All roads shall provide free movement for 
safe an efficient use within a development. 
The application has been 
reviewed by the 
Engineering Department 
and there is no evidence to 
suggest that the intended 
use will adversely impact 
local roads.  
COMPLIES 
Vehicle and Pedestrian Passageways 
Vehicular and pedestrian passageways 
shall be separated from public rights of 
way. Pedestrian pathways shall be 
provided. 
Does not apply. NOT APPLICABLE 
Scale of Buildings 
Buildings shall provide a human scale.  
The height of the proposed 
building is approximately 
twenty feet and six inches 
(20’6”). 
COMPLIES 
Runoff 
Volume of post-development runoff shall 
not exceed pre-development runoff. 
No concerns were raised by 
service providers. 
COMPLIES 
Landscaping See analysis under Standard 
2 table above. 
COMPLIES 
 
Public Notice, Meetings, and Comments  
Public notice was provided via postcards mailed to residences within 1,000 feet of the subject 
property.  Additionally, public notice was posted on the Summit County website and in the Park 
Record newspaper.  At the time of publishing this staff report, no public comments have been 
received.  
 
Recommendation 
Staff has reviewed the application for compliance with all standards in the Snyderville Basin 
Development Code (Code) and found that the application does comply with minimum 
standards for approval.  Staff recommends that the Snyderville Basin Planning  Commission 
(SBPC) review the proposed Conditional Use Permit, conduct a  public hearing and approve the  
35
9 
 
application, pursuant to the findings of fact, conclusions of law, and conditio ns of approval 
found in this Staff Report. 
 
Findings of Fact: 
1. On March 18, 2024, RM Koemans Construction submitted a CUP application for a Major 
Accessory Building located at 7596 Whileaway Road West (Parcel SL-H-491). 
2. Parlce SL-H-491 contains 2.42 acres and is located in the Rural Residential (RR) Zoning 
District. 
3. Parcel SL-H-491 is owned by Julie E Ott Trustee.  
4. Parcel SL-H-491 is located within the Silver Creek Estates Unit H Subdivision, which was 
platted in 1965. 
5. Currently, there is one (1) Minor Accessory Building and a primary residence located on 
the property, which is 2.42 acres. The primary residence has a footprint of 
approximately 2,500 square feet. The existing Minor Accessory Building is a pole barn or 
shed with a footprint of approximately 760 square feet.  
6. According to Snyderville Basin Development Code Section 10-8-17, a Major Accessory 
Building requires a Conditional Use Permit (CUP) in the Rural Residential (RR) Zone.   
A Major Accessory Building is defined as: “A building or structure greater than two 
thousand (2,000) square feet but not exceeding twelve thousand five hundred (12,500) 
square feet in size which is subordinate to, and the use of which is incidental to that of, 
the principal building, structure or use on the same lot.” 
7. Based on the acreage of the lot, the maximum allowed size of a Major Accessory 
Building is 5,000 square feet.  
8. The proposed Major Accessory Building will have a footprint of approximately 2,106 
square feet and will contain an Accessory Dwelling Unit (approximately 1,000 square 
feet), a shop with full bathroom and storage closet, and a two-car garage.  
9. An Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) is listed as an allowed use in the Rural Residential (RR) 
Zone. 
10. Accessory Dwelling Units shall comply with Development Code 10-8-5. 
11. The proposed structure is setback approximately 220 feet from the front (northwest) 
property line, 56 feet from front (northeast) property line, 225 feet from the side 
(southeast) property line, and 107 feet from the rear (southwest) property line. 
12. The maximum height of the proposed structure is approximately 20’ 6”. 
13. This application was reviewed by applicable service providers and has been found to be 
in compliance with standards for air quality, water quality, watershed protection, and 
sewage disposal. 
14. The applicant is not proposing any development in areas identified as critical lands.   
15. The Lot is within the Service Area #3 jurisdiction for water.  
a. Service Area #3 was provided the proposed plans as part of the service provider 
review and had no concerns. The Approval Letter for water, road, and culvert 
requirements is attached as Exhibit E.  
16. This area is serviced by individual septic systems.  The Health Department has indicated 
that septic will need to be approved prior to the issuance of a building permit.   
17. Mail delivery will remain the same. 
36
10 
 
18. Garbage and recycling collection will remain the same. 
19. The applicant’s submitted landscape plan details the use of drought tolerant, native 
species. No turf is proposed. 
20. All proposed exterior lighting is compliant with 10-4-21. 
 
Conclusions of Law:  
1. The use is in accordance with the general plan. 
2. The use conforms to all applicable provisions of the Code, including, but not limited to, 
any applicable provisions of Section 10-3-5, Chapter 4, and state and federal regulations. 
3. The use is not detrimental to public health, safety, and welfare. 
4. The use is appropriately located with respect to public facilities. 
5. The use is compatible with the existing neighborhood character and with the purpose 
provisions of the applicable zone district and will not affect surrounding land uses. 
 
Conditions of Approval: 
1. The applicant shall comply with all service provider requirements, including but not 
limited to, Health Department requirements for a septic system. 
2. All exterior lighting shall be compliant with 10-4-21 and will be reviewed at building 
permit. 
3. No modifications of the approved may be made without approval from the Community 
Development Department.   
4. No commercial uses are approved by this Conditional Use Permit.  Any future 
commercial use would require applicable permits and approvals from the Community 
Development Department. 
  
Attachments  
Exhibit A – Written Project Description 
Exhibit B – Existing Conditions Survey 
Exhibit C – Proposed Site Plan 
Exhibit D – Proposed Building Plans 
Exhibit E – Service Area 3 Approval  
 
  
37
SL-H-491 Proposed Major Accessory Building with 1000 sq ft ADU 
 
The 2.4-acre property has an existing 2,500 sq foot single family home and 760 sq foot pole 
barn.  Approximately 2 acres of the property is horse pasture. 
 
The proposed structure will be a 2,106 sq foot building with a 1,000 sq foot living space for 
a mother's living space.  The building will be a simple one-story, wood framed structure, 
with pre-manufactured wood roof trusses, and concrete slab on grade.  The exterior design 
and finishes of the structure/house will be tan with dark brown trim to match the existing 
home.  The new building will be placed parallel to Wasatch Lane near the existing barn.   
 
38
FOUND 3
8" REBAR
NO CAP
FOUND ORIGINAL
IRON FLAG SET 5
8" REBAR
& CAP LS5046908
FOUND ORIGINAL 3
8" REBAR
NO CAP
FOUND 5
8" REBAR & CAP
LS3371
FOUND 5
8" REBAR & CAP
LS359005
FOUND 5
8" REBAR & CAP
LS3371
FOUND 5
8" REBAR & CAP
LS3151 FOUND ORIGINAL 3
8" REBAR
NO CAP
FOUND 1" IRON PIPE
BEHIND FIRE HYDRANT
FOUND ORIGINAL
3
8" REBAR NO CAP &
IRON FLAG
SET 5
8" REBAR & CAP
LS5046908
FOUND 5
8" REBAR NO CAP
S15°W 0.79' FROM
CALCULATED POSITION FOUND 5
8" REBAR & CAP
LS187821 S11°W 0.65' FROM
CALCULATED POSITION
LOT 491
LOT 492
LOT 493
LOT 494
LOT 495
LOT 496
LOT 497
LOT 498
LOT 499
LOT 500
LOT 501
LOT 502
LOT 503
LOT 504
LOT 505
LOT 506
LOT 507
LOT 510
LOT 511
LOT 490
LOT 489
LOT 488
LOT 487
LOT 486
LOT 485
LOT 253
LOT 252
LOT 254
25.1'
N 49°45'54" W
500.00'
S 45°00'00" E500.00'
R=2010.00'
 =4°45'54"
R=2510.00'
 =4°45'54"
6450
645
0
6440
6440
E
TELE E
FOUND 3
8" REBAR
NO CAP
BENCHMARK
EL = 6443.3'
FOUND ORIGINAL
IRON FLAG
SET 5
8" REBAR & CAP
LS5046908
L1
L2
EXISTING
BUILDING
DECK
DECK
HOT
TUB
RAMP
SHED
A=167.17'
A=208.75'
31.3'
SET 5
8" REBAR & CAP
LS5046908
LOT 491
7596 N. WHILEAWAY ROAD W .
AREA = 2.42 AC±
LOT 492
LOT 506
LOT 493
LOT 490
LOT 489
LOT 253
LOT 254
LOT 262
30'
30'
30'
30'
RIDGE=6469.2'
FF=6449.9'
FF=6449.5'
21.1'
23.8'
WASATCH LANE
(ASPHALT)
N. W
HILEAW
AY ROAD W
.
(ASPHA
LT)
6440
6442
6444
6446
6438
6436
6434
6434
6436
6438
6442
6444
6444
55'
55'
12'
12'
12'
10'
GRAVEL TRAIL
55'
CULVERT
REV DATEREVISIONSINITIAL
BAR IS ONE INCH ON ORIG. DRAWING
IF NOT ONE INCH ON THIS SHEET , ADJUST
SCALES ACCORDINGLY
THIS DOCUMENT & THE IDEAS & DESIGNS
INCORPORATED HEREIN, AS AN INSTRUMENT
OF PROFESSIONAL SERVICE, IS THE
PROPERTY OF FERRARI SURVEYING & IS NOT
TO BE USED, IN WHOLE OR IN PART, FOR ANY
OTHER PROJECT WITHOUT THE WRITTEN
AUTHORIZATION OF FERRARI SURVEYING.
REUSE OF DOCUMENTS
01
1.  THE PURPOSE OF THIS SURVEY IS TO LOCATE THE BOUNDARIES OF THIS PROPERTY ON THE GROUND AND CREATE
A TOPOGRAPHICAL MAP AT THE REQUEST OF JULIE OTT.
2.  THE EVIDENCE OF BOUNDARY SHOWN HEREON IS TAKEN FROM RECORD INFORMATION COMPILED FROM SILVER
CREEK ESTATES UNIT 'F' SUBDIVISION.
3.  NO INVESTIGATION CONCERNING ENVIRONMENTAL & SUBSURFACE CONDITIONS, OR THE EXISTENCE OF
UNDERGROUND OR OVERHEAD CONTAINERS OR FACILITIES WHICH MAY AFFECT THE USE OR DEVELOPMENT OF THIS
PROPERTY WAS MADE AS A PART OF THIS SURVEY .
4.  NO INVESTIGATION CONCERNING THE LOCATION OF OR EXISTENCE OF UTILITY SERVICE LINES TO THIS PROPERTY
WAS MADE AS A PART OF THIS SURVEY .
5.  ALL UTILITY LOCATIONS SHOULD BE FIELD VERIFIED PRIOR TO ANY DESIGN OR CONSTRUCTION.
6.  DATE OF FIELD WORK FEBRUARY 6, 2025.
7.  VERTICAL DATUM IS ASSUMED.
8.  BUILDING SETBACKS MUST BE CONFIRMED WITH THE COUNTY , HOMEOWNER'S ASSOCIATION, ARCHITECTURAL
COMMITTEE, OR SIMILAR ADVISORY GROUP , IF ANY .
9. THE OWNER OF THE PROPERTY SHOULD BE AWARE OF ANY ITEMS AFFECTING THE PROPERTY THAT MAY APPEAR
IN A TITLE INSURANCE REPORT.
10. BASIS OF BEARING BETWEEN FOUND MONUMENTS SHOWN HEREON.
PROJECT ADDRESS:
SERIAL NO:
CLIENT:
SL-H-491
7596 N. WHILEAWAY ROAD W .
JULIE OTT
RECORD INFORMATION: LOT 491, SILVER CREEK ESTATES UNIT 'F' SUBDIVISION
CLIENT PROPERTY LINE
LEGEND:
PROJECT INFORMATION:
NOTES:
SURVEYOR'S STATEMENT
GREGORY J. FERRARI, P .L.S. 5046908
I GREGORY J. FERRARI OF PARK CITY , UTAH, CERTIFY THAT I AM A PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYOR IN THE STATE OF UTAH,
HOLDING LICENSE NO. 5046908.  THIS MAP CORRECTLY REPRESENTS A SURVEY MADE BY ME, OR UNDER MY DIRECTION, OF
THE HEREON DESCRIBED PROPERTY AND THAT TO THE BEST OF MY KNOWLEDGE IT IS A CORRECT REPRESENTATION OF THE
LAND SURVEYED.
PARK CITY , UT 84098
LEGAL DESCRIPTION:
2025.05
1
1
2'CONTOURS
1:40
2-7-25
SL-H-491
GF
GF
GF
2-4-25
GF
DRAWING:
CHECKED BY:
SURVEY DATE:
XREFS:
DRAFTING BY:
DESIGN BY:
SURVEY BY:
DATE:
SCALES:
VERTICAL
HORIZONTAL
PROJECT No:
OF
MAJOR CONTOUR
MINOR CONTOUR
FENCE
BUILDING SETBACK
T-POST
SEPTIC
LOT 491, SILVER CREEK ESTATES UNIT 'F' SUBDIVISION, ACCORDING TO THE OFFICIAL PLAT THEREOF ON FILE AT THE
SUMMIT COUNTY RECORDERS OFFICE.
ELECTRIC TRANSFORMER
TELE TELEPHONE PEDESTAL
6440
PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT
PROPERTY CORNER (AS NOTED)
FERRARI
0
GRAPHIC SCALE
1 INCH =       FEET
40 4020
40
PARK CITY , UT 84098
7596 N. WHILEAWAY ROAD W .
SEASONAL DRAINAGE
ADJOINING PROPERTY LINE
ROAD RIGHT OF WAY
GAS METER
ELECTRIC METER
P .O.BOX 981142
PARK CITY , UT 84098
E
.    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .
ferrari.surveying@gmail.com
SL-H-491
SUMMIT COUNTY SILVER CREEK UTAH
RECORD OF SURVEY & TOPOGRAPHICAL MAP
LOT 491 SILVER CREEK ESTATES UNIT 'F' SUB.
JULIE OTT
RECORD OF SURVEY & TOPOGRAPHICAL MAP
LOT 491 SILVER CREEK ESTATES UNIT 'F' SUBDIVISION
LOCATED IN THE NORTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 16 &
THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 9
TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH RANGE 4 EAST
SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN
LINE BEARING DISTANCE
L1 N 45°00'00" E 23.19'
L2 S 45°00'00" W 23.19'
OVERALL BOUNDARY
1:200
SOME OR ALL OF THE TOPOGRAPHY DATA AS DEPICTED ON THIS MAP WAS ACQUIRED DURING WINTER CONDITIONS
(AT THE CLIENT'S DIRECTION) WITH SNOW AT VARYING DEPTHS ON THE GROUND.  SNOW COVER WILL OBSCURE
CERTAIN FEATURES THAT WOULD OTHERWISE BE READILY APPARENT TO SURVEY CREWS, AND AS SUCH, THOSE
FEATURES MAY NOT BE SHOWN ON THIS MAP .  THE CLIENT WAS AWARE OF THIS LIMITATION AT THE TIME THE
SURVEY WAS CONDUCTED.  ADDITIONAL WORK MAY BE NECESSARY AT SUCH TIME AS WINTER CONDITIONS NO
LONGER EXIST, TO LOCATE AND MAP ANY FEATURES CRITICAL TO DEVELOPMENT THAT MAY EXIST BUT ARE NOT
SHOWN ON THIS MAP . THE CLIENT MUST ENSURE THAT SUCH ADDITIONAL WORK IS COMPLETED IN CONJUNCTION
WITH DESIGN WORK FOR ANY IMPROVEMENT ON THIS PROPERTY .
WINTER NOTE:
STACKED ROCK WALL
39
FOUND 3
8" REBAR
NO CAP
FOUND ORIGINAL
IRON FLAG SET 5
8" REBAR
& CAP LS5046908
FOUND ORIGINAL 3
8" REBAR
NO CAP
FOUND 5
8" REBAR & CAP
LS3371
FOUND 5
8" REBAR & CAP
LS359005
FOUND 5
8" REBAR & CAP
LS3371
FOUND 5
8" REBAR & CAP
LS3151 FOUND ORIGINAL 3
8" REBAR
NO CAP
FOUND 1" IRON PIPE
BEHIND FIRE HYDRANT
FOUND ORIGINAL
3
8" REBAR NO CAP &
IRON FLAG
SET 5
8" REBAR & CAP
LS5046908
FOUND 5
8" REBAR NO CAP
S15°W 0.79' FROM
CALCULATED POSITION FOUND 5
8" REBAR & CAP
LS187821 S11°W 0.65' FROM
CALCULATED POSITION
LOT 491
LOT 492
LOT 493
LOT 494
LOT 495
LOT 496
LOT 497
LOT 498
LOT 499
LOT 500
LOT 501
LOT 502
LOT 503
LOT 504
LOT 505
LOT 506
LOT 507
LOT 510
LOT 511
LOT 490
LOT 489
LOT 488
LOT 487
LOT 486
LOT 485
LOT 253
LOT 252
LOT 254
25.1'
N 49°45'54" W
500.00'
S 45°00'00" E500.00'
R=2010.00'
 =4°45'54"
R=2510.00'
 =4°45'54"
6450
645
0
6440
6440
E
TELE E
FOUND 3
8" REBAR
NO CAP
BENCHMARK
EL = 6443.3'
FOUND ORIGINAL
IRON FLAG
SET 5
8" REBAR & CAP
LS5046908
L1
L2
EXISTING
BUILDING
DECK
DECK
HOT
TUB
RAMP
SHED
A=167.17'
A=208.75'
31.3'
SET 5
8" REBAR & CAP
LS5046908
LOT 491
7596 N. WHILEAWAY ROAD W .
AREA = 2.42 AC±
LOT 492
LOT 506
LOT 493
LOT 490
LOT 489
LOT 253
LOT 254
LOT 262
30'
30'
30'
30'
RIDGE=6469.2'
FF=6449.9'
FF=6449.5'
21.1'
23.8'
WASATCH LANE
(ASPHALT)
N. W
HILEAW
AY ROAD W
.
(ASPHA
LT)
6440
6442
6444
6446
643
8
6436
6434
6434
6436
6438
644
2
6444
6444
55'
55'
12'
12'
12'
10'
GRAVEL TR
AIL
55'
CULVERT
REV DATEREVISIONSINITIAL
BAR IS ONE INCH ON ORIG. DRAWING
IF NOT ONE INCH ON THIS SHEET , ADJUST
SCALES ACCORDINGLY
THIS DOCUMENT & THE IDEAS & DESIGNS
INCORPORATED HEREIN, AS AN INSTRUMENT
OF PROFESSIONAL SERVICE, IS THE
PROPERTY OF FERRARI SURVEYING & IS NOT
TO BE USED, IN WHOLE OR IN PART, FOR ANY
OTHER PROJECT WITHOUT THE WRITTEN
AUTHORIZATION OF FERRARI SURVEYING.
REUSE OF DOCUMENTS
01
1.  THE PURPOSE OF THIS SURVEY IS TO LOCATE THE BOUNDARIES OF THIS PROPERTY ON THE GROUND AND CREATE
A TOPOGRAPHICAL MAP AT THE REQUEST OF JULIE OTT.
2.  THE EVIDENCE OF BOUNDARY SHOWN HEREON IS TAKEN FROM RECORD INFORMATION COMPILED FROM SILVER
CREEK ESTATES UNIT 'F' SUBDIVISION.
3.  NO INVESTIGATION CONCERNING ENVIRONMENTAL & SUBSURFACE CONDITIONS, OR THE EXISTENCE OF
UNDERGROUND OR OVERHEAD CONTAINERS OR FACILITIES WHICH MAY AFFECT THE USE OR DEVELOPMENT OF THIS
PROPERTY WAS MADE AS A PART OF THIS SURVEY .
4.  NO INVESTIGATION CONCERNING THE LOCATION OF OR EXISTENCE OF UTILITY SERVICE LINES TO THIS PROPERTY
WAS MADE AS A PART OF THIS SURVEY .
5.  ALL UTILITY LOCATIONS SHOULD BE FIELD VERIFIED PRIOR TO ANY DESIGN OR CONSTRUCTION.
6.  DATE OF FIELD WORK FEBRUARY 6, 2025.
7.  VERTICAL DATUM IS ASSUMED.
8.  BUILDING SETBACKS MUST BE CONFIRMED WITH THE COUNTY , HOMEOWNER'S ASSOCIATION, ARCHITECTURAL
COMMITTEE, OR SIMILAR ADVISORY GROUP , IF ANY .
9. THE OWNER OF THE PROPERTY SHOULD BE AWARE OF ANY ITEMS AFFECTING THE PROPERTY THAT MAY APPEAR
IN A TITLE INSURANCE REPORT.
10. BASIS OF BEARING BETWEEN FOUND MONUMENTS SHOWN HEREON.
PROJECT ADDRESS:
SERIAL NO:
CLIENT:
SL-H-491
7596 N. WHILEAWAY ROAD W .
JULIE OTT
RECORD INFORMATION: LOT 491, SILVER CREEK ESTATES UNIT 'F' SUBDIVISION
CLIENT PROPERTY LINE
LEGEND:
PROJECT INFORMATION:
NOTES:
SURVEYOR'S STATEMENT
GREGORY J. FERRARI, P .L.S. 5046908
I GREGORY J. FERRARI OF PARK CITY , UTAH, CERTIFY THAT I AM A PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYOR IN THE STATE OF UTAH,
HOLDING LICENSE NO. 5046908.  THIS MAP CORRECTLY REPRESENTS A SURVEY MADE BY ME, OR UNDER MY DIRECTION, OF
THE HEREON DESCRIBED PROPERTY AND THAT TO THE BEST OF MY KNOWLEDGE IT IS A CORRECT REPRESENTATION OF THE
LAND SURVEYED.
PARK CITY , UT 84098
LEGAL DESCRIPTION:
2025.05
1
1
2'CONTOURS
1:40
2-7-25
SL-H-491
GF
GF
GF
2-4-25
GF
DRAWING:
CHECKED BY:
SURVEY DATE:
XREFS:
DRAFTING BY:
DESIGN BY:
SURVEY BY:
DATE:
SCALES:
VERTICAL
HORIZONTAL
PROJECT No:
OF
MAJOR CONTOUR
MINOR CONTOUR
FENCE
BUILDING SETBACK
T-POST
SEPTIC
LOT 491, SILVER CREEK ESTATES UNIT 'F' SUBDIVISION, ACCORDING TO THE OFFICIAL PLAT THEREOF ON FILE AT THE
SUMMIT COUNTY RECORDERS OFFICE.
ELECTRIC TRANSFORMER
TELE TELEPHONE PEDESTAL
6440
PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT
PROPERTY CORNER (AS NOTED)
FERRARI
0
GRAPHIC SCALE
1 INCH =       FEET
40 4020
40
PARK CITY , UT 84098
7596 N. WHILEAWAY ROAD W .
SEASONAL DRAINAGE
ADJOINING PROPERTY LINE
ROAD RIGHT OF WAY
GAS METER
ELECTRIC METER
P .O.BOX 981142
PARK CITY , UT 84098
E
.    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .
ferrari.surveying@gmail.com
SL-H-491
SUMMIT COUNTY SILVER CREEK UTAH
RECORD OF SURVEY & TOPOGRAPHICAL MAP
LOT 491 SILVER CREEK ESTATES UNIT 'F' SUB.
JULIE OTT
RECORD OF SURVEY & TOPOGRAPHICAL MAP
LOT 491 SILVER CREEK ESTATES UNIT 'F' SUBDIVISION
LOCATED IN THE NORTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 16 &
THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 9
TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH RANGE 4 EAST
SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN
LINE BEARING DISTANCE
L1 N 45°00'00" E 23.19'
L2 S 45°00'00" W 23.19'
OVERALL BOUNDARY
1:200
SOME OR ALL OF THE TOPOGRAPHY DATA AS DEPICTED ON THIS MAP WAS ACQUIRED DURING WINTER CONDITIONS
(AT THE CLIENT'S DIRECTION) WITH SNOW AT VARYING DEPTHS ON THE GROUND.  SNOW COVER WILL OBSCURE
CERTAIN FEATURES THAT WOULD OTHERWISE BE READILY APPARENT TO SURVEY CREWS, AND AS SUCH, THOSE
FEATURES MAY NOT BE SHOWN ON THIS MAP .  THE CLIENT WAS AWARE OF THIS LIMITATION AT THE TIME THE
SURVEY WAS CONDUCTED.  ADDITIONAL WORK MAY BE NECESSARY AT SUCH TIME AS WINTER CONDITIONS NO
LONGER EXIST, TO LOCATE AND MAP ANY FEATURES CRITICAL TO DEVELOPMENT THAT MAY EXIST BUT ARE NOT
SHOWN ON THIS MAP . THE CLIENT MUST ENSURE THAT SUCH ADDITIONAL WORK IS COMPLETED IN CONJUNCTION
WITH DESIGN WORK FOR ANY IMPROVEMENT ON THIS PROPERTY .
WINTER NOTE:
STACKED ROCK WALL
To be used for 
material & tool 
storage and staging
Dumpster
Potty
Straw Waddle 
SWPP Protection
A
B
E
D
C
Grade level 6444
Line of limit of disturbance.
Silt fence as per Summit County detail
Grade Level 6440
Grade level 6642
Existing grade of approx 6445 will be maintained 
around permieter of new structure (see building
elevations for anticipated grade.
Proposed new ADU
- Garage ridge line: 6462'-6"
- House ridge line 6461'-6"
- Finish floor: 6445'-6"
55' Centerline of road to face of (N) structure
  Edge of new driveway is 214' from Whileawy Road
Edge of new driveway is 143' from edge of existing driveway
New 22' minimum driveway
  Elevations at at centerline of driveway
      A - 6445'-5"
      B - 6' from garage, 6445'-2"
      C - 20' from road, 6445-10"
      D - 6447'-6"
      E - at road, 6449'-0"
  Edge of new driveway is 214' from Whileawy Road
  Edge of new driveway is 143' from edge of existing driveway
New 6446'-0"
New 6448'=0"
Existing grass field to be used
for construciton access, storage, 
and staging
Existing gravel area to 
be used for construciton 
parking and concret 
washout
Existing driveway will
be constrciton access
unitl new driveway 
installed
See Driveway Section A-A
40
41
42
43
44
45
 Summit  County  Service  Area  #3  
 629  E.  Parkway  Drive,  Suite  1   Park  City,  UT   84098 ·  (435)  649-7949 ·   www.scsa3.org  ·  permit@scsa3.org 
 
 February  10,  2025   Mr.  Rocky  Pace  Environmental  Health  Scientist  Summit  County  Health  Department  85  North  50  East  Coalville,  UT   84017   RE:  7596  Whileaway  Rd  -  10049100   Dear  Rocky,   The  property  owner  for  7596  Whileaway  Road  in  Park  City,  UT  have  met  their  Summit  County  
Service
 
Area
 
#3
 
water,
 
road,
 
and
 
culvert
 
requirements.
 
This
 
permit
 
is
 
for
 
a
 
free
 
standing
 
ADU
 
which
 
is
 
under
 
1,000
 
square
 
feet.
  Questions  or  concerns  may  be  addressed  to  undersigned  at  permit@scsa3.org  or  (435)  
500-6276.
  Sincerely,   Jody  Anagnos  Office  Manager  
 
46
 
  
60 North MainP.O. Box 128Coalville, UT 84017 
Phone (435) 336-3133; mmcdonough@summitcounty.org 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
To:   Snyderville Basin Planning Commission   
From:   Laura Kuhrmeyer, County Planner 
Date of Meeting: May 13, 2025 
Type of Item:  Conditional Use Permit (CUP) - Public Hearing, Possible Action 
Process:  Administrative Review 
File #:   25-051 
 
 
Project Description 
Project Name:   Offset Brewery & Taproom   
Applicant(s):    Rob Nielson  
Property Owner(s):   Topmark Investments 
Location:    4175 N Forestdale Drive, Suite 105   
Zone District:    Service Commercial (SC)    
Parcel Number and Size:  PCBC-3; 0.84 acres   
Type of Process:   Administrative   
Final Land Use Authority:  Snyderville Basin Planning Commission  
 
Proposal 
The applicant is proposing a Brewery and Taproom/Tasting Room to be located within an 
existing building at 4175 N Forestdale Drive. Brewery is not specifically listed in Section 10-2-10 
of the Snyderville Basin Development code as a permitted use. However, the Community 
Development Director (CDD) has determined that the proposed Use is similar in nature and 
logically fits within the description of light manufacturing. Similarly, Taproom/Tasting Room is 
not specifically listed in 10-2-10, however, the CDD has determined that the proposed Use is 
similar in nature and logically fits within the description of a Bar. Per Section 10-2-10, “Where it 
is determined that the proposed use is consistent with an existing category or use, the 
proposed use shall be permitted, conditional, or prohibited as the existing use with which it has 
been associated.” 
 
The definitions can be found below. 
 
BAR: An establishment serving alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises. 
The term "bar" shall also include taverns, discotheques, nightclubs, private liquor clubs, 
saloons and other similar uses. 
 
47
2 
 
MANUFACTURING, LIGHT: An establishment engaged in the manufacture, 
predominantly from previously prepared materials, of finished products or pasts, 
including processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment, and packaging of such products, 
and incidental storage, sales, and distribution of such products, but excluding basic 
industrial processing. 
 
Both “Bar” and “Manufacturing, Light” are listed as a Conditional Uses in the Service 
Commercial (SC) Zone in Development Code 10-2-10. The proposed Main Level will be 
approximately 3,272 square feet and will contain the Brew House, Cold Box, two (2) restrooms, 
and the Taproom/Tasting Room. The proposed Mid-Level will be approximately 1, 227 square 
feet (with the remainder of the level open to below) and will contain grain storage, packaging 
supplies storage and the self-contained mill room for grinding the grain. 
 
Vicinity Map 
 
 
Background 
Parcel PCBC-3 is located within the Park City Business Center Subdivision, which was recorded 
on July 18, 2007 (Entry Number 819783). The Subdivision is subject to the Park City Business 
Center Development Agreement (Ordinance Number 563). 
48
3 
 
 
Currently, the site contains an existing building with a breezeway connecting to a second 
building. The buildings were approved in two phases. The first phase was approved in 2018 via 
a Low Impact Permit for “Office, General.” The second phase was approved in 2022 via a Low 
Impact Permit for “Office, General.” The proposed Brewery is located within phase 2 of the site.  
 
The proposed brewery and taproom are subject to Utah State Code Title 32B, Alcoholic 
Beverage Control Act. In Utah, the Utah Division of Alcoholic Beverage Control (DABC) regulates 
the sale and service of alcohol. The applicant will be required to obtain applicable licenses from 
Utah DABC prior to operating the brewery or taproom. 
 
Analysis and Findings 
Chapter 2 - Zone District Requirements 
The subject property is located in the Service Commercial (SC) Zone District (10-2-4). 
 
CODE REQUIREMENT ANALYSIS FINDING 
SC Zone District Intent 
The purpose of the service 
commercial/light industrial (SC) zone 
district is to provide appropriate locations 
within the Snyderville Basin for service 
commercial and light industrial uses, 
recognizing that such uses provide vital 
support functions for the basin’s resort 
and residential economy. 
The two proposed Uses 
were determined to fit 
within the neighborhood 
when they were 
designated as 
conditional uses in this 
zone. 
COMPLIES 
Setback Requirements 
Front: 30’ 
Side: 12’ 
Rear: 12’ 
 
As Proposed: 
There are no proposed 
changes to the outside of 
the building and the 
building was determined 
to meet setbacks when 
the original LIP was 
approved. 
 
COMPLIES 
Height 
The maximum building or structure height 
is thirty-two feet (32’), from existing or 
finished grade, whichever results in a 
greater measurement.  
There are no proposed 
changes to the outside of 
the building and the 
building was determined 
to meet height 
requirements when the 
original LIP was 
approved. 
 
COMPLIES 
 
49
4 
 
 
 
 
 
Conditional Use Permit Criteria for Approval 
No Conditional Use Permit (CUP) shall be approved unless the applicant demonstrates that: 
  
Standard 1: The use is in accordance with the General Plan.  COMPLIES 
  
Analysis: The Park City Business Center is located in the Quinn’s Junction neighborhood. 
The General Plan description for this neighborhood includes: “The types of uses in this 
area support a viable economy in Summit County. Recognizing this, the continued use of 
and the expansion of additional service commercial and industrial uses should be 
considered, especially near the existing development located in the northeast quadrant 
of SR-248 and US-40. Appropriate uses may include general offices, business parks, 
manufacturing, and other service related and industrial uses...”  
 
This proposal places a manufacturing, light and bar use in the center of the existing light 
industrial zoning district and development intended for such uses. The inclusion of a 
taproom, is complementary to the primary industrial use, and will add a quasi-mixed use 
element to the Park City Business Center. 
 
Standard 2: The use conforms to all applicable provisions of this Title, including, but not limited 
to, any applicable provisions of this Section and Chapter 4 of this Title, the General Plan, and 
State and Federal regulations;  
 
Analysis: See table below.  
Code Requirement Analysis Finding 
Environmental Criteria 
*Air Quality 
*Water Quality 
*Watershed Protection 
*Sewage Disposal 
*Wildlife Habitat 
This application was 
reviewed by applicable 
service providers and has 
been found to be in 
compliance with standards 
for air quality, water 
quality, watershed 
protection, and sewage 
disposal. 
COMPLIES 
Critical Lands 
*Wetlands 
*Slopes Exceeding 30% 
*Ridgelines 
*Avalanche Zones 
*Geologic Hazards 
 
The applicant is not 
proposing any development 
in areas identified as critical 
lands.   
COMPLIES 
50
5 
 
Open Space There are no open space 
requirements for this 
proposal. 
NOT APPLICABLE 
Water and Water Supply 
 
The water provider, Summit 
Water, has determined that 
requirements for water, 
road, and culverts have 
been met for the current 
proposal. If in the future 
there is excess use over the 
allotted amount, there will 
be overage charges and 
additional water would 
need to be purchased (see 
Condition of Approval #11). 
COMPLIES 
Sanitary Sewer 
 
This area is serviced by 
Snyderville Basin Water 
Reclamation District 
(SBRWD).  The SBWRD did 
not raise any concerns with 
the proposal. 
 
COMPLIES, as 
conditioned 
Fire Protection 
Ability to serve a development to provide 
fire protection shall be provided, in 
writing, for all developments. 
Park City Fire District has no 
objections to the CUP 
application.  
COMPLIES 
Loading and Unloading 
Applicant shall demonstrate adequate 
loading and unloading space is available 
within the development. 
Loading and unloading for 
this building is not 
proposed to change.  
Condition of Approval #4 
has been added to reiterate 
that loading or unloading 
may not interfere with 
traffic circulation within the 
site. 
COMPLIES, as 
conditioned 
Parking The site currently has 
approximately 21 parking 
spaces, approved under the 
original LIP. There are no 
proposed additional parking 
spaces at this time. The 
Applicant states that 
parking generated by the 
tasting room will be 
COMPLIES 
51
6 
 
directed to evenings, after 
daily business hours have 
concluded, and this will 
balance the available on-
site parking.  
Internal Parking Lot Landscaping 
At least 15% of the internal portion of a 
parking lot shall be landscaped. 
 
The Parking Lot 
Landscaping was reviewed 
and approved in the original 
Low Impact Permit. 
COMPLIES 
Parking Lot Snow Storage 
Uncovered parking lots shall provide snow 
storage equal to 10% of the uncovered 
parking lot surface.  
 
The Parking Lot Snow 
Storage was reviewed and 
approved in the original 
Low Impact Permit. 
COMPLIES 
Transportation Infrastructure and Access 
Design 
Does not apply. NOT APPLICABLE 
Public Utilities 
A letter shall be obtained from the public 
utility companies that will provide service 
to the development. 
The suite already contains 
utilities and any necessary 
extensions/expansions will 
be provided prior to final 
inspection of the building 
permit. 
COMPLIES 
Mail Delivery 
Locations for mail delivery should be 
shown on the final site plan and written 
approval from the postmaster. 
Mail delivery will remain 
the same. 
COMPLIES 
Solid Waste and Recycling 
Garbage and Recycling Containers need to 
be identified on the site plan and located 
within a completely enclosed structure.  
Garbage and recycling 
service will remain the 
same. 
COMPLIES 
Snow Removal and Storage 
Development shall provide adequate area 
for snow removal.  
Snow Storage will remain 
the same. 
COMPLIES 
Police and Security 
Prior to submitting an application for 
development approval, the applicant shall 
obtain certification as to compliance with 
this standard. 
No concerns have been 
raised by applicable service 
providers. 
COMPLIES 
Parks, Trails, and Trailheads 
All development shall provide 
neighborhood park facilities in a manner 
that is sufficient to meet the specific 
recreational demands generated by the 
development. 
Does not apply. NOT APPLICABLE 
52
7 
 
ADA Access 
All building intended for public use shall be 
accessible to the disabled, as per the 
requirements of the international building 
code and the Americans with disabilities act. 
The requirements for ADA 
Access were reviewed and 
approved under the original 
LIP. 
COMPLIES 
Special Site Design Requirements 
• Privacy 
• Front, Side, and Rear Yards 
 
There are no changes to the 
site, as this is an internal 
tenant improvement. 
COMPLIES 
Architectural Regulations for All Structures 
 
Staff has reviewed the plans 
for compliance with 
Architectural Regulations 
(10-4-19) and found 
compliance. 
COMPLIES 
Landscape Regulations 
All new development requiring a land use 
permit shall comply with the landscape 
requirements. All projects that increase the 
SF of an existing building or parking 
requirement by 20% or more shall also 
comply. 
Condition of Approval #7 
has been added to require 
any disturbed landscaped 
areas be revegetated. 
COMPLIES, as 
conditioned 
Lighting Regulations 
All development permit applications that 
propose exterior outdoor lighting or street 
lighting shall include a lighting plan. 
All proposed exterior 
lighting is compliant with 
10-4-21, see Condition of 
Approval #8. 
COMPLIES, as 
conditioned 
Height Regulations 
The maximum height allowed is 32’ from 
existing or finished grade, whichever results 
in a greater measurement.  
The height of the structure 
was approved under the 
original Low Impact Permit 
and is not proposed to 
change. 
 
 
COMPLIES 
 
Standard 3: The use is not detrimental to public health, safety and welfare. COMPLIES 
 
Analysis: Staff can foresee no instance where the proposed use would be detrimental to 
the public health, safety or general welfare. 
 
 
Standard 4: The use is appropriately located with respect to public facilities. COMPLIES  
   
Analysis: All necessary public facilities are available on site, including water, sewer, and 
roads.  
 
53
8 
 
Standard 5: The use is compatible with the existing neighborhood character and with the 
character and purpose provision of the applicable zoning district, and will not adversely affect 
surrounding land uses. COMPLIES 
 
Analysis: A determination of compatibility with the neighborhood was made when the 
use was allowed in the zone. The intended use of this development area is light 
industrial. The Light Manufacturing use is ideally situated here. The use of the building 
as a taproom and brewery will support other businesses in the area as the taproom will 
have limited food offerings that are not available otherwise in the immediate vicinity. To 
mitigate impacts, staff has included conditions of approval requiring the applicant meet 
all applicable service provider comments.   
 
Special CUP Standards: In addition to the standards established in this section and in chapter 4 
of [the Code] for particular uses, all conditional uses within a zoning district shall conform to 
the following standards and criteria: 
 
Code Requirement Analysis Finding 
Escrow for Extraordinary Costs 
The commission may require the applicant 
subject to an application for CUP approval 
to establish or post a bond for infrastructure 
improvements, including any conditions of 
approval. 
No major infrastructure 
improvements are required. 
COMPLIES 
No Reduction in Level of Services 
The proposed development shall not cause 
a reduction in the adopted level of service 
for any public facility. 
There is no evidence to 
suggest that the proposed 
use will cause a reduction in 
the adopted level of service 
for any public facilities. 
COMPLIES 
Lighting See analysis under Standard 
2 table above. 
COMPLIES 
Preserve Topography, Soils, Critical Areas, 
etc. 
The natural topography, soils, critical areas, 
watercourses and vegetation shall be 
preserved whenever possible.  
Condition of Approval #7 
has been added to require 
any disturbed landscaped 
areas be revegetated. 
COMPLIES, as 
conditioned 
Roads  
All roads shall provide free movement for 
safe an efficient use within a development. 
The application has been 
reviewed by the 
Engineering Department 
and there is no evidence to 
suggest that the intended 
use will adversely impact 
local roads.  
COMPLIES 
54
9 
 
Vehicle and Pedestrian Passageways 
Vehicular and pedestrian passageways 
shall be separated from public rights of 
way. Pedestrian pathways shall be 
provided. 
Does not apply. NOT APPLICABLE 
Scale of Buildings 
Buildings shall provide a human scale.  
The height of the building is 
not proposed to change. 
COMPLIES 
Runoff 
Volume of post-development runoff shall 
not exceed pre-development runoff. 
No concerns were raised by 
service providers. 
COMPLIES 
Landscaping See analysis under Standard 
2 table above. 
COMPLIES 
 
Public Notice, Meetings, and Comments  
Public notice was provided via postcards mailed to property owners within 1,000 feet of the 
subject property.  Additionally, public notice was posted on the Summit County website and in 
the Park Record newspaper.  At the time of publishing this staff report, no public comments 
have been received.  
 
Recommendation 
Staff has reviewed the application for compliance with all standards in the Snyderville Basin 
Development Code (Code) and found that the application does comply with minimum 
standards for approval.  Staff recommends that the Snyderville Basin Planning  Commission 
(SBPC) review the proposed Conditional Use Permit, conduct a  public hearing and approve the  
application, pursuant to the findings of fact, conclusions of law, and conditio ns of approval 
found in this Staff Report. 
 
Findings of Fact: 
1. On March 13, 2025, the Community Development Department received a Conditional 
Use Permit (CUP) application for the uses of bar and light manufacturing within an 
existing building on Parcel PCBC-3. 
2. Parcel PCBC-3 is owned by Topmark Investments. 
3. Parcel PCBC-3 contains 0.84 acres and is located in the Service Commercial (SC) Zoning 
District. 
4. Parcel PCBC-3 is located within the Park City Business Center Subdivision, which was 
recorded on July 18, 2007 (Entry Number 819783).  
5. The Subdivision is subject to the Park City Business Center Development Agreement 
(Ordinance Number 563). 
6. Currently, the site contains an existing building with a breezeway connecting to a 
second building. The buildings were approved in two phases.  
a. The first phase was approved in 2018 via a Low Impact Permit for “Office, 
General.”  
55
10 
 
b. The second phase was approved in 2022 via a Low Impact Permit for “Office, 
General.” The proposed Brewery is located within phase 2 of the site. 
7. The applicant is proposing a Brewery and Taproom/Tasting Room to be located within 
an existing building at 4175 N Forestdale Drive.  
a. Brewery is not specifically listed in Section 10-2-10 of the Snyderville Basin 
Development code as a permitted use. However, the Community Development 
Director (CDD) has determined that the proposed Use is similar in nature and 
logically fits within the description of Light Manufacturing.  
b. Similarly, Taproom/Tasting Room is not specifically listed in 10-2-10, however, 
the CDD has determined that the proposed Use is similar in nature and logically 
fits within the description of a Bar.  
8. Per Section 10-2-10, “Where it is determined that the proposed use is consistent with an 
existing category or use, the proposed use shall be permitted, conditional, or prohibited 
as the existing use with which it has been associated.” 
9. Both “Bar” and “Manufacturing, Light” are listed as a Conditional Uses in the Service 
Commercial (SC) Zone in Development Code 10-2-10.  
10. The proposed Main Level will be approximately 3,272 square feet and will contain the 
Brew House, Cold Box, two (2) restrooms, and the Taproom/Tasting Room. The 
proposed Mid-Level will be approximately 1, 227 square feet (with the remainder of the 
level open to below) and will contain grain storage, packaging supplies storage and the 
self-contained mill room for grinding the grain. 
11. The proposed use is within an existing building, which was reviewed and deemed 
compliant with code standards, and there are no proposed changes to outside the 
building that would impact the setbacks or height. 
12. The proposed brewery and taproom are subject to Utah State Code Title 32B, Alcoholic 
Beverage Control Act. In Utah, the Utah Division of Alcoholic Beverage Control (DABC) 
regulates the sale and service of alcohol. The applicant will be required to obtain 
applicable licenses from Utah DABC prior to operating the brewery or taproom. 
13. The hours of operation for the Brewery will be Monday-Friday, 9am-5pm. 
14. The hours of operation for the Tasting Room/Taproom will be: 
a. Tuesday-Thursday, 4pm-8pm 
b. Friday, 2pm-9pm 
c. Saturday, 1pm-9pm 
d. Sunday, 1pm-6pm 
15. This application was reviewed by applicable service providers and has been found to be 
in compliance with standards for air quality, water quality, watershed protection, and 
sewage disposal. 
16. This area is serviced by Snyderville Basin Water Reclamation District and there were no 
concerns brought up by SBWRD.  
17. Mail delivery will remain the same. 
18. Garbage and recycling collection will remain the same. 
19. There are no proposed changes to landscaping. 
20. All proposed exterior lighting is compliant with 10-4-21. 
 
56
11 
 
Conclusions of Law:  
1. The use is in accordance with the general plan. 
2. The use conforms to all applicable provisions of the Code, including, but not limited to, 
any applicable provisions of Section 10-3-5, Chapter 4, and state and federal regulations. 
3. The use is not detrimental to public health, safety, and welfare. 
4. The use is appropriately located with respect to public facilities. 
5. The use is compatible with the existing neighborhood character and with the purpose 
provisions of the applicable zone district, and will not affect surrounding land uses. 
Conditions of Approval: 
1. The applicant shall comply with all service provider requirements prior to issuance of a 
building permit. 
2. The hours of operation for the Brewery shall be Monday-Friday, 9am-5pm. 
3. The hours of operation for the Tasting Room/Taproom shall be within the hours of 1pm 
and 9pm. 
4. Loading and unloading of materials related to the commercial use may not interfere 
with traffic circulation.  
5. Any change in Use would require approval from the applicable Land Use Authority. 
6. All necessary County permits must be obtained, and fees paid prior to the 
commencement of any construction activity. 
7. Any disturbed landscaped areas shall be revegetated. 
8. All exterior lighting shall be compliant with 10-4-21 and will be reviewed at building 
permit. 
9. All Parking must be on-site. 
10. The applicant shall obtain applicable licenses from Utah DABC prior to operating the 
brewery or taproom. 
11. The water provider, Summit Water, has determined that requirements for water, road, 
and culverts have been met for the current proposal. If in the future there is excess use 
over the allotted amount, there will be overage charges and additional water would 
need to be purchased. 
12. The Conditional Use Permit approval shall be valid for a one (1) year period. If the 
construction has not begin or if an approved use has not commenced within one (1) 
year from the date of approval, the approval shall automatically expire and shall be 
invalid unless an application for an extension is filed prior to expiration. 
 
  
Attachments  
Exhibit A – Written Description 
Exhibit B – Proposed Plans 
  
57
February 28, 2025 
To: Summit County Community Development Department 
From: Rob Nielson, RDNieson Architecture 
RE: Offset Brewing Low Impact Permit Application 
Dear Community Development Department, This is our application letter for a Low Impact Permit 
for Offset Brewing located at 4175 Forestdale Drive Suite 105, Park City, UT 84098 in Summit 
County. Offset Brewing is a craft beer brewery with a tasting room included in the development 
plans. The tasting room is integral to the philosophy of the brewers product the concept is 
compatible with the community in the Park City Business Center.  Parking activity  generated by 
the tasting room is directed to evenings  after daily business hours have concluded and this 
balances the available on-site parking for the Top Mak Investments building at this location.   
Please advise if additional information is needed. 
Thank you, 
Rob Nielson 
Architect/Building Owner/General Contractor 
Conditional Use Permit
58
FOUND REBAR
AND CAP
"LEI"
S 59°29'39" W  243.79'
N 30°24'42" W  150.00'
N 59°29'39" E  243.54'
S 30°30'21" E  150.00'
RIDGE
RIDGE
RIDGE
1803057_SITE-PHASE2
DESCRIPTIONDATENo.
PARK CITY, UTAH
9138 SOUTH STATE STREET SUITE #100
 SANDY, UTAH 84070  (801) 542-7192
www.benchmarkcivil.com 
BENCHMARK
ENGINEERING &
LAND SURVEYING
DRAWN BY
CHECKED BY
FIELD CREW
DATE
DWG. FILE
09/09/22
ZS/CL
MCP
TJB/MNJ
PROJECT NO.
1803057
SCALE MEASURES 1-INCH ON FULL SIZE SHEETS
ADJUST ACCORDINGLY FOR REDUCED SIZE SHEETS
0 10.5
OF 10
4157 NORTH FORESTDALE DR.
PARK CITY BUSINESS CENTER 3 1
PHASE 2
1 inch =     ft.
( IN FEET )
GRAPHIC SCALE
0 202040
20
10
CONSTRUCTION KEY NOTES REFERENCE
NO.DESCRIPTIONDETAIL
1ASPHALT PAVEMENT WITH GRANULAR BASE1/CDT.01
PARTICULARSS.F.%
BUILDING
HARDSCAPE
LANDSCAPE
TOTAL
5,658
9,753
58.0
8.5
33.5
100
AREA TABLE (PHASE 2 ONLY)
835
3,260
BLUE STAKES OF UTAH
UTILITY NOTIFICATION CENTER
1-800-662-4111
www.bluestakes.org
CALL BEFORE YOU DIG.
IT'S FREE & IT'S THE LAW.
811
NORTH
CSP.01
SITE
PLAN
3
126.0'
12.0'
12.0'
12.0'
15.0'8.0'
20.3'
30.0'
60.0' ROW
N. FORESTDALE ROAD(PUBLIC STREET)
10' PUE
PHASE 1
BUIDLING
(COMPLETE)
10' PUE
10' PUE
10' PUE
24.0'
47.0'
PHASE 2
PHASE 1
12.0'
12.0'
47.00'
23.00'
1
1
SNOW STORAGE
SNOW STORAGE
SNOW STORAGE
LANDSCAPE
HOA OPEN SPACE
PHASE 2
BUILDING
5,658 S.F.
PARTICULARS
ADA
PARKING STALLS
TOTAL
1
21
PARKING COUNT
STANDARD
PROVIDED
20
18.0'
9.0'
9.0'
18.0'
1
NEW LANDSCAPING
NEW STRIPING
NEW STRIPING
5.9'
EX. STRIPING
(PROTECT) NEW STRIPING
PARTICULARSS.F.%
BUILDING
HARDSCAPE
LANDSCAPE
TOTAL
10,727
36,561
29.3
43.5
27.2
100
AREA TABLE (TOTAL PROPERTY)
15,896
9,938
59
UP
UP DW
1
A305
1
A305
e
1
1
2
2
4
4
3
3
f
h
g
3
A306
3
A306
10' - 2"
16' - 0 3/4"
45' - 8 1/2"
planter
23' - 4"
i
19' - 11 3/8"
6' - 1"12' - 0"2' - 0 7/8"
6' - 8 1/4" 0' - 6 3/4" 6' - 8 1/4"
service
door
coiling garage door
with motorized operator
overhead garage
door
4' - 1"
9' - 4 1/8"
5
A307
5
A307
6
6
suite 105
restroom 2
suite 104
A304
2
10' - 2 1/8"
5' - 0"
58' - 9 1/2"24' - 2 7/8"20' - 7 7/8"
26' - 1 1/8"
36' - 1 3/8"
9' - 11 5/8"
9' - 8 5/8"
20' - 1"
loading
dock
5' - 4 1/2"
mop sink
5
5
floor drain
f.d.
restroom 1
101
P2
100
P2
aa
P2
ab
P2
ad
P2
104
P2
105
P2
106
P2
107
P2
al
P2
103
P2
ae
P2
ah
P2
ai
P2
aj
P2
ak
P226' - 1"23' - 4"9' - 11 1/4"22' - 5 1/2"23' - 3 1/4"
A/C
ada water 
fountains
(See detail
A605)
47' - 3"
PHASE 1 BUILDING
26' - 1 1/2"
DOOR 
OPERATOR
door operator
entry
4
A306
4
A306
9' - 11"
2
A305
2
A305
door operator
UP
ac
P2
6
A307
6
A307
5' - 7 1/4"
0' - 3 1/2"
3' - 9"
0' - 1 1/2"
0' - 1 1/2"
0' - 1 1/2" 0' - 2 1/8"
0' - 1 1/2"
0' - 1 1/2"
0' - 5 1/2"
planter
36" TALL ADA ACCESS 
GUARDRAIL UNDER STAIR
3
3
8
5
8
3
3
3
7
7
overhead garage
door
aa
2
A606A606
3
6607' - 3 1/4"
2
A603
A605
7
1' - 5 5/8"16' - 0 3/4"4' - 11 1/8"
102
P2
5
7
7
1
1
3
7
8
1
8
3
8
7
A308
f.d.
1' - 6"
1' - 6"
12' - 6"
9' - 4"
21' - 0"
9' - 4"
21' - 0 1/8"
9' - 4"9' - 4"
A250 12
3
4
A250 56
7
8
7' - 10"
8' - 0"
6' - 4"
306
P7
EQEQ
ada water 
fountains
(See detail
A605)
1' - 0"
1' - 0" 0' - 9"
4' - 9"
1' - 6"
f.d.
74' - 2 1/2"
A250 911
10
12
electrical
panel
6 1/2" wall
4 1/2" wall
4 1/2" wall
4' - 0"
2' - 6"
6 1/2" wall
Tap area
RITE 105S BOILER
18' - 0"
26' - 0"
17' - 4"
horizontal vent
5' - 10" 2' - 0"
Cold box
BURNER
25' - 11 7/8"
5' - 5 1/4"
1
A308
1
A308
elec. panel
UP
KEGWASHER
RO PANEL
BREW HOUSE
1/4" /FT SLOPE 
(TYP)
stairs to mezz.
drain
10 BBL STACKED 
FVS
30 BBL CLT
BREWER SINK HOT 
AND COLD WATER
overhead garage
door
10 BBL 
LAUTER TUN
GRANT
MASH KETTLE 
WHIRLPOOL
20 BBL HOT 
LIQUOR TANK
BREWHOUSE 
CONTROL 
PANEL
MAINTENANCE 
CLEARANCE
10 BBL STACKED 
FVS
10 BBL STACKED 
FVS
10 BBL STACKED 
FVS
BDT-1860 88'' TALL
12X12 
FLOOR 
SINK
RO
SOFTENER
RO 
HOLDING 
94'' TALL
MAIN PLATFORM
HMI PANEL
CR-50 38'' 
TALL
7' - 6"
4' - 0"
chiller 54" x
128" x 90"
306
P26
future 3°x7°
door
306
P27
3 BAY SINK 
1/4" /FT SLOPE 
(TYP)
1/4" /FT SLOPE 
(TYP)
1/4" /FT SLOPE 
(TYP)
FORKLIFT 
ACCESS 
AREA
1/4" /FT SLOPE 
(TYP)
1/4" /FT 
SLOPE 
(TYP)
MAINTENANCE 
CLEARANCE
VENT.
8' - 0"
10' - 1"
BEER COOLER
wall types
mark interior finish fire ratingdescription commentsexterior finish
1 5/8" gypsum wall board 1 hourinterior partition na
2
3
4
5
6
5/8" gypsum wall board 1 hourinterior shearwall na
5/8" gypsum wall board naexterior eifs eifs
na naexterior eifs eifs
5/8" gypsum wall board naexterior cmu veneer split-faced veneer
5/8" gypsum wall board naexterior wood siding t&g wood siding
note: see sheet A206 for wall details
7
8 metal siding
interior partition 5/8" gypsum wall board na
Scale
Project number
Date
Drawn by
4175 Forestdale Dr. Suite 103
Park City, Utah (801) 631-1100
Warning: The drawings, designs, ideas, arrangements 
and plans indicated or represented are the sole property 
of RD Nielson Architecture and are subject to the 
copyright of RD Nielson Architecture, & of its assigns. 
They were created and developed for use on, and in 
conjunction with the specified project. Any use of the 
drawings, designs, material or information contained 
herein, including but not limited to copying or 
reproduction, which is not expressly authorized by RD 
Nielson Architecture is strictly prohibited as an 
infringement of its copyright and may result in liability.
Copyright © RD Nielson Architecture
 1/4" = 1'-0"
4/2/2025 16:07:59
A203
phase 2 main
level
-
phase 2
PCBC #2
02.04.25
M.A 4175 north forestdale drive, park city utah
 1/4" = 1'-0"1 Main level phase 2
revisions:
NORTH
60
DN
UP DW
1
A305
1
A305
1
1
2
2
4
4
3
3
f
h
g
3
A306
3
A306
i
5
A307
5
A307
6
6
20' - 6 1/2"
20' - 5 3/8"
5
5
bf
P2
bg
P2
bh
P2
bi
P2
59' - 6"
12' - 6"21' - 0"12' - 2 1/4"11' - 1"9' - 11" 15' - 11"
2
A305
2
A305
4' - 2 5/8"
4' - 2 5/8"
6
A307
6
A307
26' - 1"23' - 4"9' - 11 1/4"22' - 5 1/2"23' - 3 1/4"
21' - 0 1/2"16' - 1"9' - 11"
1
7
8
8
5
3
71
88
3 3
2
A606
2
A603
stair 2
6613' - 10 7/16"
7
A206
7
A308
7
A308
3
3
A311
4' - 0"
9' - 4" 9' - 4"
f.sink
f.sink
3' - 11 3/4"
furnace
9' - 4" 9' - 4"
10' - 1 1/2"
10' - 1 1/2"
17' - 7"
10' - 8"10' - 8 1/2"
filter
duct
furnace
filter
duct
w/h
open space below
suite 104
mezzanine
9 1/32"
88 3/4"
6 1/2" WALL
open space below
1
A308
1
A308
10
10
10
10
MILL ON 
MEZZANINE
AIR 
COMPRESSOR 
ON MEZZANINE
DN
4' - 0"
FORKLIFT 
ACCES 
AREA
FROM 
MAIN 
LEVEL
RA. DUCT
VENT.
wall types
mark interior finish fire ratingdescription commentsexterior finish
1 5/8" gypsum wall board 1 hourinterior partition na
2
3
4
5
6
5/8" gypsum wall board 1 hourinterior shearwall na
5/8" gypsum wall board naexterior eifs eifs
na naexterior eifs eifs
5/8" gypsum wall board naexterior cmu veneer split-faced veneer
5/8" gypsum wall board naexterior wood siding t&g wood siding
note: see sheet A206 for wall details
7
8 metal siding
interior partition 5/8" gypsum wall board na
Scale
Project number
Date
Drawn by
4175 Forestdale Dr. Suite 103
Park City, Utah (801) 631-1100
Warning: The drawings, designs, ideas, arrangements 
and plans indicated or represented are the sole property 
of RD Nielson Architecture and are subject to the 
copyright of RD Nielson Architecture, & of its assigns. 
They were created and developed for use on, and in 
conjunction with the specified project. Any use of the 
drawings, designs, material or information contained 
herein, including but not limited to copying or 
reproduction, which is not expressly authorized by RD 
Nielson Architecture is strictly prohibited as an 
infringement of its copyright and may result in liability.
Copyright © RD Nielson Architecture
 1/4" = 1'-0"
4/2/2025 16:08:00
A204
phase 2 mid
level
-
phase 2
PCBC #2
02.04.25
ma 4175 north forestdale drive, park city utah
 1/4" = 1'-0"1 Mid level
revisions:
NORTH
61
Scale
Project number
Date
Drawn by
4175 Forestdale Dr. Suite 103
Park City, Utah (801) 631-1100
Warning: The drawings, designs, ideas, arrangements 
and plans indicated or represented are the sole property 
of RD Nielson Architecture and are subject to the 
copyright of RD Nielson Architecture, & of its assigns. 
They were created and developed for use on, and in 
conjunction with the specified project. Any use of the 
drawings, designs, material or information contained 
herein, including but not limited to copying or 
reproduction, which is not expressly authorized by RD 
Nielson Architecture is strictly prohibited as an 
infringement of its copyright and may result in liability.
Copyright © RD Nielson Architecture
4/2/2025 16:08:35
A210
brewery images
3D
-
phase 2
PCBC #2
02.04.25
M.A 4175 north forestdale drive, park city utah
revisions:
62
main level
6607' - 3 1/4"
upper level
6625' - 2 1/2"
124 37
upper roof
6639' - 3 1/4"
6 5
top of footing
6603' - 9 1/2"
3' - 5 3/4"
RITE 105S BOILER
RO
SOFTENER
AIR COMPRESSOR ON 
MEZZANINE
3' - 6"
bi
P2
bh
P2
ak
P2
107
P2
106
P2
bi
P3
bg
P2
ai
P2
bf
P2
ah
P2
HVAC DUCT
COLD BOX
26' x 18' 
26' - 0"
aj
P2
8' - 0"
main level
6607' - 3 1/4"
upper level
6625' - 2 1/2"
mid level
6619' - 3 1/4"
stair landing
6613' - 10 7/16"
fh g i
upper roof
6639' - 3 1/4"
top of footing
6603' - 9 1/2"
3' - 6"
STAINLESS 
STELL FLUE
10 BBL 
LAUTER 
TUN
MASH KETTLE 
WHIRLPOOL
20 BBL HOT 
LIQUOR TANK
al
P2
bi
P4
cl
P2
304
P2
MILL ON 
MEZZANINE
AIR COMPRESSOR 
ON MEZZANINE
8' - 0"
HVAC DUCT
COLD BOX
26' x 18' 
18' - 0"
SLOPE (TYP) 1/4" / 12" SLOPE (TYP) 1/4" / 12"
GRAIN FEEDER
CR-50 38'' 
TALL
Scale
Project number
Date
Drawn by
4175 Forestdale Dr. Suite 103
Park City, Utah (801) 631-1100
Warning: The drawings, designs, ideas, arrangements 
and plans indicated or represented are the sole property 
of RD Nielson Architecture and are subject to the 
copyright of RD Nielson Architecture, & of its assigns. 
They were created and developed for use on, and in 
conjunction with the specified project. Any use of the 
drawings, designs, material or information contained 
herein, including but not limited to copying or 
reproduction, which is not expressly authorized by RD 
Nielson Architecture is strictly prohibited as an 
infringement of its copyright and may result in liability.
Copyright © RD Nielson Architecture
 1/4" = 1'-0"
4/2/2025 16:08:44
A308
building
sections
-
phase 2
PCBC #2
02.04.25
ma 4175 north forestdale drive, park city utah
revisions:
 1/4" = 1'-0"7 Section 16
 1/4" = 1'-0"1 Section 17
63
REF.
UP
End of phase 2 
improvements
End of phase 1
improvements
Phase 2 landscape Existing landscape
completed in phase 1
Property lines
Conc. pad
4' x 22'. Flush
with asphalt
surface.
6''Conc. pad
sidewalk
Carl forester
ornamental grasses (4)
ASPHALT PARKING SURFACE
light pole
NATIVE FIELD GRASS 
TYPICAL IN SIDE AND
REAR YARD SETBACK
AREA.
Property lines
Property lines
SNOW STORAGE
light pole
End of phase 2 
improvements
2120191817161514131211109
1234
5678
SIDEWALK
PATHWAY
LIGHTING
electrical meters
DRAIN
EVE
C 
TRAN
S
SIDEWALK
DRAIN
SNOW STORAGE
monument sign
SHREDDED 
BARK MULCH IN 
PLANTING BEDS
2'' WASHED 
RIVER ROCK
TRASH 
ENCLOSURE
SNOW STORAGE
SNOW STORAGE
FIELD GRASS
HC.
stall
existing
existing
existing
existing
existing existing
existing existing existing existing
existing
existing
existing
existing
existing
existing
EV CHARGER
ON LIGHT 
POLE BASE
Swedish aspen (2)
Carl forester
ornamental grasses (5)
Swedish aspen (2)
6'' concrete
pad
19' - 10 3/4"
14' - 0 5/8"
Shrubs (4)
Aspen clump
Aspen clump
Aspen clump (2)
Shrubs (4)
Shrubs (4)
Neighbours 6'
metal fence
existing
existing
FIELD GRASS
ELEV
Concrete
LANDSCAPE LEGEND
MARK DESCRIPTION
2-1/2'' CALIPER QUAKING 
ASPEN
5 GAL. 
SHURBS 
CONCRET
E
NATIVE FIELD 
GRASS
COLUMNAR SWEDISH 
ASPEN IN
CLOSE TO BUILDING 2.5'' 
CALIPER
CARL FORESTER
ORNAMENTAL GRASSES
WASHED ROCK 2' 
MIUNS
ASPEN 
CLUMP
Scale
Project number
Date
Drawn by
4175 Forestdale Dr. Suite 103
Park City, Utah (801) 631-1100
Warning: The drawings, designs, ideas, arrangements 
and plans indicated or represented are the sole property 
of RD Nielson Architecture and are subject to the 
copyright of RD Nielson Architecture, & of its assigns. 
They were created and developed for use on, and in 
conjunction with the specified project. Any use of the 
drawings, designs, material or information contained 
herein, including but not limited to copying or 
reproduction, which is not expressly authorized by RD 
Nielson Architecture is strictly prohibited as an 
infringement of its copyright and may result in liability.
Copyright © RD Nielson Architecture
As indicated
18/10/2022 14:41:53
L1Landscape plan
-
phase 2
PCBC #2
10.18.2022
M.A4175 north forestdale drive, park city utah
revisions:
3/32" = 1'-0"1 Landscape plan
NOTE
PROVIDE DRIP IRRIGATION AT ALL PLANTING BEDS
PROVIDE SPRAY IRRIGATION AT ALL GRASS AREAS
TREES AND SHRUBS TO BE SELECTED BY OWNER 
AND LANDSCAPING CONTRACTOR
REVEGETATE ALL DISTURBED AREAS WITH 
NATURAL GRASSES
1 : 150
Landscape legend
64
2232 SF
suite 101
1036 SF
suite 102
1166 SF
suite 103
elev.
1140 SF
suite 104
1080 SF
suite 105
1003 SF
suite 106
stair 2
stair 1
covered
bay
799 SF
suite 107
fire riser
room
UP
UP
a
a
b
b
c
c
e
e
d
d
1
2
4
3
f
f
h
h
5
6
g
g 0.0
0.1
0.2
0.4
0.5
0.8
1.2
1.7
2.1
2.3
2.4
2.3
2.7
2.3
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.5
0.7
1.0
1.4
2.0
2.4
2.7
2.8
2.6
2.7
2.6
0.0
0.1
0.3
0.7
1.0
1.2
1.7
2.3
2.8
3.2
3.2
2.9
2.9
3.4
0.0
0.1
0.4
0.9
1.3
1.4
1.9
2.6
3.4
3.9
3.5
3.2
3.5
4.8
0.0
0.0
0.4
1.0
1.4
1.6
2.0
2.8
3.6
4.3
3.6
3.5
3.9
6.1
0.1
0.1
0.4
1.2
1.9
2.1
2.4
3.1
3.7
4.0
3.6
3.4
3.7
5.2
0.1
0.1
0.4
1.6
2.5
2.7
3.1
3.6
4.0
4.3
4.1
3.6
3.6
4.5
6.7
5.9
6.0
6.3
4.6
1.9
0.7
0.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.4
1.9
3.1
3.1
3.7
4.3
4.6
5.1
5.3
5.2
5.9
6.9
5.8
5.5
4.3
3.3
3.4
5.5
8.9
10.0
11.4
11.3
10.3
10.7
10.5
9.8
10.5
10.3
9.6
9.9
9.8
8.6
7.2
3.4
1.0
0.2
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.2
0.3
0.4
2.2
3.6
3.4
4.0
4.5
4.8
5.3
5.3
4.9
5.3
5.2
3.9
3.5
3.0
2.7
3.7
6.1
10.1
12.6
12.8
12.9
13.0
12.2
12.3
12.7
12.2
12.0
12.2
11.5
11.4
11.2
8.2
3.8
1.2
0.2
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.2
0.3
0.5
2.9
3.9
3.6
4.3
4.7
4.9
4.9
4.8
4.5
4.9
4.8
3.6
3.1
2.9
2.7
3.5
5.6
10.4
13.7
13.3
13.3
14.3
12.5
12.5
13.9
12.4
12.5
13.6
12.0
11.8
12.1
8.5
3.6
1.3
0.2
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.7
4.2
4.6
4.0
4.5
5.1
5.2
4.9
4.6
4.4
4.5
4.4
3.5
3.0
2.8
2.7
3.4
6.2
10.5
11.5
13.5
12.9
10.9
11.8
11.4
10.4
11.5
11.4
10.1
11.3
11.0
8.9
7.6
3.5
1.0
0.2
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
5.6
5.2
4.3
4.7
5.4
5.4
4.7
4.0
3.8
3.8
4.0
3.7
3.2
2.7
2.4
3.3
5.8
10.7
13.6
12.4
10.8
10.2
8.8
8.5
9.0
8.4
8.4
9.0
8.3
8.0
7.9
5.6
2.3
0.8
0.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.3
0.5
0.8
4.8
4.9
4.2
4.7
5.2
5.1
4.4
3.7
3.3
3.3
3.3
2.9
2.5
2.2
2.1
3.2
6.1
10.8
13.2
0.3
0.4
0.6
3.5
4.0
3.7
4.2
4.4
4.2
3.7
3.2
2.8
2.7
2.7
2.2
1.9
1.7
1.8
3.0
6.2
10.5
11.0
0.2
0.3
0.5
2.6
3.5
3.1
3.5
3.5
3.2
2.9
2.5
2.2
2.1
1.9
1.6
1.4
1.3
1.5
2.7
5.6
11.0
13.0
0.2
0.3
0.4
2.1
3.2
2.7
2.8
2.8
2.6
2.3
1.9
1.6
1.5
1.5
1.3
1.2
1.1
1.3
2.5
5.6
9.9
10.5
0.2
0.2
0.5
1.9
2.6
2.4
2.5
2.4
2.2
2.0
1.5
1.2
1.2
1.4
1.4
1.2
1.1
1.3
2.5
5.4
10.2
12.5
0.1
0.1
0.5
1.6
2.2
2.2
2.1
2.1
2.1
1.8
1.4
1.1
1.1
1.4
1.5
1.3
1.2
1.4
2.7
5.6
10.3
12.3
0.1
0.1
0.5
1.4
1.8
1.9
1.8
1.9
2.0
1.7
1.3
1.1
1.1
1.4
1.6
1.5
1.4
1.6
2.9
6.0
10.3
11.2
0.1
0.1
0.6
1.3
1.6
1.7
1.7
1.8
1.9
1.7
1.3
1.0
1.1
1.4
1.6
1.6
1.7
2.0
3.3
6.1
11.0
13.3
0.1
0.2
0.5
1.2
1.5
1.6
1.6
1.7
1.9
1.7
1.3
1.1
1.1
1.4
1.7
1.8
2.0
2.2
3.8
6.6
10.1
10.5
0.0
0.2
0.5
1.1
1.4
1.5
1.6
1.7
1.8
1.7
1.3
1.1
1.2
1.5
1.8
2.0
2.2
2.4
4.2
6.4
10.4
12.6
0.2
0.5
1.1
1.4
1.5
1.6
1.7
1.8
1.7
1.3
1.2
1.3
1.7
2.0
2.3
2.5
2.7
4.2
6.6
8.8
10.0
0.1
0.5
1.2
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.6
1.8
1.6
1.3
1.1
1.4
1.9
2.3
2.7
3.0
3.0
4.1
6.6
7.3
8.2
0.1
0.5
1.2
1.5
1.6
1.5
1.6
1.8
1.5
1.2
1.1
1.5
2.1
2.8
3.4
3.4
3.4
4.4
6.4
0.0
0.4
1.3
1.7
1.8
1.7
1.7
1.7
1.5
1.1
1.1
1.5
2.3
3.2
3.9
3.6
3.8
4.7
7.1
0.0
0.4
1.5
2.1
2.0
1.9
1.8
1.7
1.5
1.1
1.0
1.5
2.4
3.3
3.9
3.8
3.8
4.5
5.7
0.1
0.2
1.7
2.5
2.1
2.1
1.9
1.7
1.5
1.1
1.0
1.5
2.4
3.2
3.7
3.8
3.7
4.0
4.5
0.1
0.1
1.8
2.9
2.2
2.2
2.1
1.8
1.6
1.2
1.1
1.5
2.3
3.0
3.4
3.6
3.5
3.9
3.7
0.1
0.2
2.3
3.0
2.4
2.6
2.4
2.0
1.6
1.2
1.0
1.5
2.3
3.0
3.3
3.5
3.6
4.2
3.5
0.1
0.3
3.3
3.6
2.8
2.8
2.8
2.4
1.8
1.2
1.0
1.4
2.3
3.0
3.3
3.6
3.6
4.3
3.6
0.1
0.4
4.6
4.3
3.1
3.0
3.1
2.7
1.9
1.2
1.0
1.5
2.3
3.0
3.2
3.6
3.6
4.2
3.6
0.1
0.4
4.5
4.3
3.0
3.0
3.0
2.6
1.9
1.2
1.0
1.5
2.3
3.0
3.3
3.5
3.6
4.0
3.6
0.1
0.3
3.0
3.6
2.7
2.8
2.7
2.3
1.8
1.2
1.1
1.5
2.4
3.1
3.4
3.6
3.6
3.8
4.0
0.1
0.2
2.1
3.1
2.4
2.5
2.3
1.9
1.6
1.2
1.1
1.5
2.4
3.3
3.7
3.8
3.8
4.2
4.8
0.1
0.1
1.6
2.8
2.2
2.2
2.0
1.7
1.5
1.2
1.1
1.6
2.5
3.3
4.0
3.7
3.8
4.5
6.1
0.1
0.1
1.4
2.4
2.1
2.0
1.8
1.7
1.5
1.2
1.2
1.7
2.5
3.4
4.1
3.9
4.0
4.7
6.0
0.0
0.2
1.3
2.0
1.9
1.8
1.7
1.7
1.5
1.3
1.3
1.9
2.7
3.5
4.1
4.5
4.8
5.6
6.2
3.4
4.5
5.8
5.2
3.7
2.7
2.2
1.9
1.6
1.3
1.1
0.9
0.7
0.5
0.3
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.0
0.3
1.0
1.5
1.6
1.5
1.5
1.6
1.5
1.3
1.4
1.9
2.6
3.2
3.8
4.4
4.7
5.6
5.4
3.0
3.4
3.8
3.6
3.0
2.6
2.6
2.3
1.9
1.5
1.2
1.0
0.8
0.5
0.4
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.0
0.3
0.9
1.3
1.3
1.3
1.3
1.5
1.5
1.3
1.4
1.8
2.5
3.0
3.4
3.9
4.1
4.9
4.1
2.6
2.9
3.1
3.0
2.7
2.3
2.1
1.9
1.7
1.4
1.2
1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0.0
0.3
0.8
1.1
1.1
1.1
1.2
1.4
1.4
1.3
1.4
1.8
2.4
2.8
3.1
3.5
3.9
4.4
3.8
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.9
2.7
2.4
2.1
1.9
1.7
1.3
1.1
1.0
0.9
0.6
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0.2
0.6
0.8
0.9
1.0
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.2
1.4
1.8
2.3
2.7
3.0
3.2
3.6
3.8
3.3
2.5
2.7
3.1
3.0
2.5
2.1
1.8
1.6
1.5
1.4
1.3
1.1
0.9
0.7
0.5
0.3
0.2
0.1
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.7
0.7
0.9
1.0
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.7
2.3
2.7
2.8
2.8
3.1
3.1
2.7
2.1
2.1
2.3
2.3
2.0
1.7
1.5
1.5
1.4
1.3
1.3
1.2
0.9
0.7
0.5
0.3
0.2
0.0
0.1
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
1.2
1.6
2.1
2.4
2.3
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.2
1.7
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.4
1.3
1.2
1.1
1.1
1.0
0.9
0.9
0.8
0.6
0.5
0.3
0.2
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
1.1
1.4
1.8
1.8
1.7
1.7
1.7
1.8
1.6
1.1
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.0
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.7
0.9
1.1
1.3
1.3
1.2
1.2
1.2
1.1
0.9
0.6
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.0
0.0
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.7
0.8
0.9
0.9
0.8
0.8
0.7
0.7
0.5
0.3
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.0
0.0
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.0
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.0
0.0
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
1.5
0.6
0.2
0.1
3.3
4.6
2.8
1.0
0.3
0.1
0.0
5.8
7.7
4.2
1.3
0.4
0.1
0.0
6.4
8.4
4.5
1.4
0.4
0.1
0.0
4.1
5.6
3.3
1.2
0.4
0.1
0.0
2.0
2.8
1.9
0.8
0.3
0.1
0.0
0.9
1.3
1.0
0.5
0.2
0.1
0.0
0.4
0.5
0.5
0.3
0.1
0.1
0.0
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.0
0.0
Scale
Project number
Date
Drawn by
1990 Picabo St. Park City, Utah (801) 631-1100
Warning: The drawings, designs, ideas, arrangements
and plans indicated or represented are the sole property
of RD Nielson Architecture and are subject to the
copyright of RD Nielson Architecture, & of its assigns.
They were created and developed for use on, and in
conjunction with the specified project. Any use of the
drawings, designs, material or information contained
herein, including but not limited to copying or
reproduction, which is not expressly authorized by RD
Nielson Architecture is strictly prohibited as an
infringement of its copyright and may result in liability.
Copyright © RD Nielson Architecture
20180371
4175 north forestdale drive, park city utah
PCBC #3
06.08.2018
RRP/DGH
revisions:
324 S. State St., Suite 400
Salt Lake City, UT  84111
800-678-7077
801-328-5151
fax: 801-328-5155
www.spectrum-engineers.com
E211
main level
lighting plan
 1/8" = 1'-0"
65
 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT - PLANNING DIVISION 
P.O. BOX 128 
60 NORTH MAIN STREET 
COALVILLE, UT  84017 
PHONE (435) 336-3124   FAX (435) 336-3046 
WWW.SUMMITCOUNTY.ORG 
 
October 22, 2020 
 
Rob Nielson 
4175 Forestdale Drive 
Suite 103 
Park City Utah, 84098 
           
Re: “TMI Monument Sign” Freestanding Sign, located at 4175 Forestdale Drive, Summit 
County, UT                
 
Dear Mr. Nielson: 
 
The Summit County Community Development Department has approved a sign permit for a 
freestanding sign at 4175 Forestdale Drive, Summit County, Utah. This approval is based upon 
the materials submitted to Summit County, compliance with the sign regulations in the 
Snyderville Basin Development Code and the following conditions of approval.  
 
1. The sign shall not exceed the proposed size dimensions, coloring, materials, and 
design as indicated on the submitted drawing. 
2. The sign shall be setback a minimum of 15 feet from the right-of-way per the 
requirements of the Snyderville Basin Development Code. 
3. Any proposed changes other than this application shall require a new application. 
4. All applicable building permits must be obtained prior to starting any construction.   
5. Electrical permits from the Building Department are required for all illuminated 
signs.  You may contact the Building Department at (435) 336-3156. 
 
If you have any questions, please feel free to contact me at (435) 615.3118 or by email, 
rmilliner@summitcounty.org
. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Ray Milliner 
County Planner 
66
67
 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT - PLANNING DIVISION 
P.O. BOX 128 
60 NORTH MAIN STREET 
COALVILLE, UT  84017 
PHONE (435) 336-3117   FAX (435) 336-3046 
ACAUS@SUMMITCOUNTY.ORG            WWW.SUMMITCOUNTY.ORG  
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
June 28 2024 
 
 
Rob Nielson                              via e-mail: Rob@prospectutah.com 
4175 N Forestdale Drive Suite 103 
Park City, UT 84098           Project #: 24-089 
           
Re: “Sim Sports & Jackson Basecamp” signs, located at 4175 N Forestdale Drive, Summit 
County, UT 
 
To whom it may concern: 
 
The Summit County Community Development Department has approved your request for a 
Sign Permit for “Sim.Sports” and “Jackson Base Camp” wall mounted façade signs at 4175 N 
Forestdale Drive, Summit County, Utah. This approval is based upon the materials submitted 
(attached as Exhibit A) to Summit County and compliance with the sign regulation provisions 
as defined in the Snyderville Basin Development Code.  This approval is subject to the 
following findings, conclusions, and conditions.   
 
Findings of Fact 
1. On June 11, 2024, the Community Development Department received a Sign Permit 
application for wall signs for the Sim.Sports and Jackson Base Camp businesses, 
located at 4175 N Forestdale Drive, Summit County, Utah. 
2. The property is subject to the Snyderville Basin Development Code regulations.   
3. According to the submitted plans, the proposed businesses have 75 linear feet of 
building façade on the primary access side. 
4. The applicant is proposing four (4) total wall signs, two (2) on the primary façade and 
two (2) on the rear of the building.  
5. The Snyderville Basin Development Code states: A primary wall mounted sign shall 
not exceed one square foot of sign area for each two (2) linear feet of building facade 
frontage, up to a maximum of sixty (60) square feet.  
6. Under the Snyderville Basin Development Code, based on the length of the building, 
this allows up to sixty (37.5) square feet for a primary wall sign. 
a. The applicant proposes one primary wall sign (Sim.Sports) measuring 
approximately 15.83 square feet and one primary wall sign (Jackson Base 
Camp) measuring approximately 20.46 square feet. The total size of all 
primary wall signs is approximately 36.29 square feet. 
7. The Snyderville Basin Development Code states: A sign that is located on a building 
facade that is separate from the facade on which the primary wall sign is located. A 
68
2 of 2 
secondary wall sign shall not exceed a maximum of one-half (1/2) the size of the 
permitted primary wall sign. 
8. Based on the maximum permitted size of the primary wall sign, the secondary wall 
signs may not exceed 18.75 square feet total. 
a. The applicant proposes one secondary wall sign (Sim.Sports) measuring 
approximately 7.58 square feet and one secondary wall sign (Jackson Base 
Camp) measuring approximately 10.10 square feet. The total size of all 
primary wall signs is approximately 17.69 square feet. 
9. Staff has reviewed the proposal and found compliance with applicable Development 
Code standards as conditioned. 
 
Conclusions of Law 
1. The proposed permit, as conditioned, meets the requisite standards set forth in the 
Snyderville Basin Development Code. 
 
Conditions of Approval 
1. The proposed sign shall not exceed the proposed size dimensions, coloring, materials, 
design, and location as indicated on the submitted drawings (Exhibit A). 
2. Wall mounted signs shall not project out more than six inches (6") from the wall on 
which they are mounted. 
3. Wall mounted signs shall be wood, metal, other natural materials, or painted on the 
side of the building. Plastic, lexan, or similar materials are allowed for individual 
letters only. 
4. The sign will be internally illuminated, which shall comply with the Snyderville Basin 
Development Code Lighting regulations. 
5. Only the letters will be backlit. Backlit full sign face illuminated signs are prohibited. 
6. No interior light source shall be visible to the exterior. 
7. Electrical permits from the Building Department are required for all illuminated signs 
requiring new electricity circuits.  You may contact the Building Department at (435) 
336-3156. 
 
Failure to meet the aforementioned conditions may result in the revocation of this permit.  If 
you have any questions, feel free to contact me at (435) 615-3134 or 
lkuhrmeyer@summitcounty.org. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Laura Kuhrmeyer 
County Planner  
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A – Proposed Plans 
69
main level
6607' - 3 1/4"
upper level
6625' - 2 1/2"
mid level
6619' - 3 1/4"
mid level
6619' - 3 1/4"
abce dfh g
storefront 
split-face cmu
eifs siding
finished grade
metal railing
elevator doorefis fascia
horizontal cedar siding
top of wall: 6639' - 3 1/4"
top of wall: 6626' - 3 1/4"
existing grade
32' height restriction
anchor tenant signage
12 sf
entry door signage
(typical) 
recessed down 
lighting in soffits   
wall pack security 
down lighting.
aa
ba bccb
P2
ac ad1
ad2
bf
ab
abaa
top of wall: 6639' - 3 1/4"
top of wall: 6637' - 2 1/2"
PHASE 2 PHASE 1i
upper roof
6639' - 3 1/4"
efis siding
main level
6607' - 3 1/4"
upper level
6625' - 2 1/2"
mid level
6619' - 3 1/4"
1 2 43 7
finished grade
existing grade
32' height restriction
ck
P2
top of wall: 6639' - 3 1/4"
PHASE 2
upper roof
6639' - 3 1/4"
65
10' - 0" 10' - 0"
18.75 sf max. signs
3' - 8 7/8"
4' - 5 1/2" 4' - 6 1/2"
1' - 2"
2' - 9 1/8"
Jacksons base camp
sim sports
6' - 6"
main level
6607' - 3 1/4"
upper level
6625' - 2 1/2"
mid level
6619' - 3 1/4"
a b c ed f hg
split-face cmu
eifs siding
finished grade
metal fascia
top of wall: 6637' - 2 1/2"
existing grade
aj ak
bp bq br
32' height restriction
storefront window system
split faced cmu veneer
top of wall: 6639' - 2 1/2"
top of wall: 6637' - 2 1/2"
finished grade
PHASE 1 PHASE 2 i
upper roof
6639' - 3 1/4"
top of footing
6603' - 9 1/2"
main level
6607' - 3 1/4"
upper level
6625' - 2 1/2"
124 37
eifs siding
split face cmu veneer
storefront window system
finished grade
top of wall: 6636' - 6 7/16"
32' height restriction
building frontage 
existing grade
entry door signage
bi bsbj bk bm bnbg
af ah
PHASE 2 PHASE 1
upper roof
6639' - 3 1/4"
6 5
cf
P2
ce
P2 cd
P2
ae
P2
104
P2
103
P2
ad
P2
EQ EQ
1' - 8"
9' - 6"
4' - 0 1/2"4' - 11 1/2"
3' - 0"
5' - 11"
3' - 10 3/8"
37.5 sf max signs
SIM SPORT (UPPER)
JACKSON´S (BASE)
Scale
Project number
Date
Drawn by
4175 Forestdale Dr. Suite 103
Park City, Utah (801) 631-1100
Warning: The drawings, designs, ideas, arrangements 
and plans indicated or represented are the sole property 
of RD Nielson Architecture and are subject to the 
copyright of RD Nielson Architecture, & of its assigns. 
They were created and developed for use on, and in 
conjunction with the specified project. Any use of the 
drawings, designs, material or information contained 
herein, including but not limited to copying or 
reproduction, which is not expressly authorized by RD 
Nielson Architecture is strictly prohibited as an 
infringement of its copyright and may result in liability.
Copyright © RD Nielson Architecture
 1/8" = 1'-0"
19/6/2024 14:11:20
A804
overall
elevations
-
phase 2
PCBC #2
6.19.2023
M.A 4175 north forestdale drive, park city utah
 1/8" = 1'-0"1 overall south elevation
 1/8" = 1'-0"2 overall west elevation
 1/8" = 1'-0"3 overall north elevation
 1/8" = 1'-0"4 overall east elevation
revisions:
70
Scale
Project number
Date
Drawn by
4175 Forestdale Dr. Suite 103
Park City, Utah (801) 631-1100
Warning: The drawings, designs, ideas, arrangements 
and plans indicated or represented are the sole property 
of RD Nielson Architecture and are subject to the 
copyright of RD Nielson Architecture, & of its assigns. 
They were created and developed for use on, and in 
conjunction with the specified project. Any use of the 
drawings, designs, material or information contained 
herein, including but not limited to copying or 
reproduction, which is not expressly authorized by RD 
Nielson Architecture is strictly prohibited as an 
infringement of its copyright and may result in liability.
Copyright © RD Nielson Architecture
19/6/2024 14:11:20
A903
render
-
phase 2
PCBC #2
6.19.2023
bs/ma
4175 north forestdale drive, park city utah
revisions:
71
Scale
Project number
Date
Drawn by
4175 Forestdale Dr. Suite 103
Park City, Utah (801) 631-1100
Warning: The drawings, designs, ideas, arrangements 
and plans indicated or represented are the sole property 
of RD Nielson Architecture and are subject to the 
copyright of RD Nielson Architecture, & of its assigns. 
They were created and developed for use on, and in 
conjunction with the specified project. Any use of the 
drawings, designs, material or information contained 
herein, including but not limited to copying or 
reproduction, which is not expressly authorized by RD 
Nielson Architecture is strictly prohibited as an 
infringement of its copyright and may result in liability.
Copyright © RD Nielson Architecture
19/6/2024 14:11:21
A904
renders 2
-
phase 2
PCBC #2
6.19.2023
bs/ma
4175 north forestdale drive, park city utah
revisions:
72
73
MINUTES
SUMMIT COUNTY
Snyderville Basin Planning Commission Meeting
SHELDON RICHINS BUILDING
1885 WEST UTE BOULEVARD, PARK CITY, UT, 84098
TUESDAY, APRIL 22, 2025
Meeting also conducted via Zoom.
DRAFT
Makena Hawley
Matthew Nagie
Spencer Young
Tim Jeffrey
Eric Sagerman
Lynda Viti
Peter Barnes
Ray Milliner
Tiffanie Robinson
Amir Caus
Mike Kendell
Amy Price
Ron Boyer
Jarett Moe
Richard Bardauskas
Welcome/Attendance
Regular Session (6:01 P.M.)
1) Public comment for items not on the agenda or pending
applications. (6:01 P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Commissioner Hawley opened the meeting for public comment at 6:01
p.m.
No one came forward to speak.
Commissioner Hawley closed the meeting for public comment at 6:02
p.m.
74
Makena Hawley
Matthew Nagie
Spencer Young
Tim Jeffrey
Heather Peteroy
Eric Sagerman
Lynda Viti
Peter Barnes
Ray Milliner
Tiffanie Robinson
Amir Caus
Mike Kendell
Amy Price
Ron Boyer
Jarett Moe
Richard Bardauskas
2) Public Hearing and Action regarding a Conditional Use Permit for
an Accessory Dwelling Unit located at 4123 Forestdale, Building B,
Unit 2; Parcel ALTLC-2.  Applicant: Nathan Biel. Owner: Eric
Fleming. Administrative Review. Project #25-011. Madlyn
McDonough, County Planner. (6:02 P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: 25.011 ADU CUP Staff Report
Ray Milliner, Principal Planner, presented a Conditional Use Permit
application for an accessory apartment in the Altitude Lofts
development.
Commissioners asked brief clarifying questions.
Jarett Moe, Architect, addressed the Commission and provided
additional information regarding the number of employees.
Commissioner Hawley opened the meeting for public hearing at 6:08
p.m.
No one came forward to speak.
Commissioner Hawley closed the meeting for public hearing at 6:08
p.m.
Matthew Nagie made a motion to approve the Conditional Use
Permit for an Accessory Dwelling Unit located at 4123 Forestdale,
Building B, Unit 2 subject to the findings of fact, conclusions of
law, and conditions of approval found in the staff report. Spencer
Young seconded, and all voted in favor, (5-0).
3) Public Hearing and Action regarding a Conditional Use Permit
application to construct a Major Accessory Building (an Accessory
Building over 2,000 square feet), Silver Creek Estates Unit C, 8795
Redden Road (16.89 acres). Applicant: Andrew Foster. Owner:
Christian Larson.  Administrative Review. Project #23-100.  Madlyn
McDonough, County Planner. (6:10 P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: 23.100 Major Accessory Building CUP Staff Report
75
Ray Milliner, Principal Planner, presented a Major Accessory Building
application located at 8795 Redden Road in the Silver Creek Estates.
Commissioner Hawley opened the meeting for public hearing at 6:13
p.m.
No one came forward to speak.
Commissioner Hawley closed the meeting for public hearing at 6:13
p.m.
Commissioners asked brief clarifying questions regarding the planned
use of the building. Planner Milliner responded to the concern.
Commissioner Peteroy joined the meeting via Zoom at 6:16 p.m.
Matthew Nagie made a motion to approve the Conditional Use
Permit to construct a Major Accessory Dwelling Unit at Silver
Creek Estates Unit C, 8795 Redden Road subject to the findings of
fact, conclusions of law, and conditions of approval found in the
staff report. Spencer Young seconded, and all voted in favor, (6-0).
4) Public Hearing and Action for the Glenwild Phase II Amended
Subdivision Plat Amendment to adjust the subdivision boundary
line of the Common Area Parcel H. Applicant: Michael Kendell,
Summit County Project Engineer. Owner: Glenwild Community
Association. Administrative Review. File #25-009. Tiffanie N.
Robinson, Senior Planner. (6:18 P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Glenwild Phase 2 Common Area Plat Amend SBPC PH
4.22.2025 #25-009.pdf
Attachment: Glenwild Staff Presentation
Tiffanie Robinson, Senior Planner, and Mike Kendell, County Project
Engineer, introduced the plat amendment to adjust the subdivision
boundary line of the Common Area Parcel H. 618
Commissioners asked questions to which Planner Robinson and
Engineer Kendell responded.
Commissioner Hawley opened the meeting for public hearing at 6:27
p.m.
No one came forward to speak.
Commissioner Hawley closed the meeting for public hearing at 6:27
p.m.
Commissioner Hawley asked for a motion.
Heather Peteroy moved. Matthew Nagie seconded, and all voted in
favor, (6-0).
5) Public Hearing and recommendation for the Silver Creek Estates
Unit I Block 3 Lot 1 Plat Amendment to adjust a property line and
76
modify a portion of a public road, located at 7300 North Greenfield
Drive, parcels SL-I-3-1 and SL-I-3-SC-X. Applicant: Michael Kendell,
Summit County Project Engineer. Owners: Kurt F. and Tracy A.
Swenson and Summit County.  Administrative Review. File #25-
010. Tiffanie N. Robinson, Senior Planner. (6:28 P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: SL-I-3-1 Plat Amendment SBPC PH 4.22.2025 #25-010
Attachment: Staff Presentation - Silver Creek
Planner Tiffanie Robinson presented the related property line
adjustment in Silver Creek Estates Unit I Block 3 Lot 1 for public hearing
and action.
Brief questions were raised by Commission Members to which Planner
Robinson and Engineer Kendell responded.
Commissioner Hawley opened the meeting for public hearing at 6:31
p.m.
No one came forward to speak.
Commissioner Hawley closed the meeting for public hearing at 6:31
p.m.
Matthew Nagie made a motion to forward a positive
recommendation to the County Council for the Silver Creek Estates
Unit I Block 3 Lot 1 Plat Amendment. Spencer Young seconded,
and all voted in favor, (6-0).
6) Public Hearing and Action regarding the Conditional Use Permit for
a Rocky Mountain Power substation and transmission line upgrade
at the Rocky Mountain Power Summit Park Substation, located at
4969 W Kilby Rd., Summit Park, Summit County, UT; Parcels S-59
(0.33 acres) and SU-K-18A-AM-X (1.20 acres); Applicant: Andrew
Badger representing Rocky Mountain Power; Administrative
Review. Project #23-112. Amir Caus, AICP, Senior Planner. (6:33
P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Rocky Mountain Power CUP - Summit Park Substation
Upgrade Staff Report - April 22, 2025 SBPC.pdf
Amir Caus, AICP Senior Planner, introduced a Conditional Use Permit
for a Rocky Mountain Power substation and transmission line upgrade
for public hearing and action.
Commissioner Nagie asked for additional information regarding the 26-
foot retaining wall. Planner Caus responded to Commissioner Nagies
concern.
Richard Bardauskas, Project Manager with Rocky Mountain Power,
provided additional information regarding the retaining wall. Discussion
77
continued.
Commission Hawley opened the meeting for public hearing at 6:46 p.m.
Susan Schultz was called to speak.
Commissioner Hawley closed the meeting for public hearing at 6:48
p.m.
Planner Caus and Mr. Bardauskas responded to the questions raised
during the public hearing.
Matthew Nagie made a motion to approve the Conditional Use
Permit for a Rocky Mountain Power substation and transmission
line upgrade at the Rocky Mountain Power Summit Park
Substation, located at 4969 W Kilby Road subject to the findings of
fact, conclusions of law, and conditions of approval found in the
staff report. Eric Sagerman seconded, and all voted in favor, (6-0).
7) Approval of Minutes: March 25, 2025. (6:58 P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Draft SBPC Minutes 03.25.25.pdf
Matthew Nagie made a motion to approve the minutes dated March
25, 2025. Eric Sagerman seconded, and all voted in favor, (6-0).
Director Items (6:59 P.M.)
Appoint a Planning Commissioner to serve on the Silver Creek Village Center
Design Review Committee.
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: SBPC 4.22.25 Memo.pdf
Commissioner Young volunteered to serve on the Silver Creek Village
Design Review Committee.
Spencer Young made a motion to appoint Commissioner Young to
serve on the Silver Creek Village Center Design Review
Committee.. Matthew Nagie seconded, and all voted in favor, (6-0).
Director Barnes provided a preview of agenda items for the next meeting
including the possibility of a work session.
Adjournment (7:09 P.M.)
Tim Jeffrey made a motion to adjourn. Spencer Young seconded, and all
voted in favor, (6-0).
78
79