1.
Work Session to discuss and receive direction on proposed amendments to Chapter
4: Transportation and Chapter 10: Public Facilities of the Snyderville Basin General
Plan. This item is for discussion and direction only; no recommendation or action will
be taken by the Planning Commission.
Ray Milliner, Principal Planner, Mustapha Osman, County Planner. 
1.
**Public comments for items not on the agenda or pending applications.**
2.
Public Hearing, Possible Recommendation for the Canyons Development Agreement
Amendment to modify Section 3.15 regarding Automobile Access to Red Pine
Village Development Area, located in the Red Pine Village, Tombstone and Red
Pine Lake Development Areas of the Canyons Resort. Legislative Process. 
Applicant: Dave Smith, authorized representative. Project #23-064.
Tiffanie N. Robinson, Senior Planner.
3.
Public Hearing, Possible Recommendation to the County Council for amendments to
the Snyderville Basin Development Code Section 10-2-18: Master Planned
Developments, 10-3: Development Application Procedure and Approval Process, 10-
7-4: Amendment to the Zoning Map, and 10-11: Definitions. Legislative Process.
Project # 26-078.
Amanda Curtis, County Planner.
4.
Approval of Minutes: May 26, 2026.
**AMENDED** 
AGENDA 
SNYDERVILLE BASIN PLANNING COMMISSION 
Tuesday, June 
9, 2026
NOTICE is hereby given that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission will meet
electronically, via Zoom, and at the anchor location of Richins Auditorium
1885 W. Ute Blvd., Park City, UT 84098
(All times listed are general in nature, and are subject to change by the Board Chair)
 
You may attend in person or
 
Join Zoom webinar:
https://summitcountyut.zoom.us/j/98189226475  
OR
To listen by phone only: Dial 1-669-900-9128 or 1-253-215-8782, Webinar ID: 981 8922 6475 
 
4:30 P.M. Work Session
 
Work Session Report June 9, 2026.pdf
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
 
 
Red Pine Dev Area access DA Amendment 
SBPC PH 6.9.2026 Staff Report 
#23-064
 
Rezone Staff Report SBPC.pdf
 
Draft SBPC Minutes 05.26.26.pdf
1
Commission Items
Director Items
Adjourn
To view staff reports available at the end of the Friday before the meeting please visit
www.summitcounty.org.
 
Individuals needing special accommodations pursuant to the Americans with Disabilities Act regarding this
meeting may contact Vicki Geary, Summit County Community Development Department at (435)336-3123.
2
 Community Development Department 
P.O. Box 128 
60 North Main Street 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
summitcounty.org 
STAFF REPORT 
To: S
nyderville Basin Planning Commission 
From: Ray Milliner, Mustapha Osman 
Date of Meeting: J une 9, 2026 
Type of Item:  General Plan Amendment – Work Session 
Process:  Legislative  
P
roposal 
This work session is intended to obtain Planning Commission input on the direction, clarity, 
and intent of Chapters 10 and 4 of the draft General Plan. 
Ba
ckground 
The draft Snyderville Basin General Plan is the result of a multi-year planning effort that 
began with the Our Summit process in 2024. That process established a community vision 
and identified priorities related to growth, housing, transportation, economic 
development, open space, and community character. Building on that work, the County 
held public meetings, workshops, surveys, and stakeholder discussions to evaluate 
existing conditions and develop the goals, objectives, policies, and strategies in the draft 
Plan. 
Since beginning its review of the draft General Plan, the Planning Commission has 
completed work sessions on several chapters and provided direction on organization, 
policy language, and implementation. Staff have incorporated that feedback into later 
revisions and continue to refine the document as review progresses. 
This work session will focus on Chapter 10 (Public Facilities and Services) and revisit 
Chapter 4 (Transportation and Connectivity). The Planning Commission previously 
reviewed Chapter 4 and provided direction to staff. In response, staff revised the chapter to 
improve organization, clarify policy direction, and better align transportation objectives 
with the land use framework and overall structure of the General Plan. The revised chapter 
is presented for additional review and feedback. 
Chapter 4 – Transportation and Connectivity establishes the policy framework for 
maintaining and improving a safe, efficient, and connected transportation system in the 
Snyderville Basin. The chapter emphasizes coordination between transportation planning 
and land use decisions, supports expanded multimodal options, and promotes 
investments that improve connectivity while reducing reliance on single-occupancy 
3
2 
 
vehicles. Policies address active transportation, transit, roadway efficiency, regional 
coordination, and transportation facilities that support community character and quality of 
life. 
Chapter 10 – Public Facilities and Services establishes policy direction for the provision, 
coordination, and long-term planning of public facilities and essential services in the 
Snyderville Basin. The chapter addresses infrastructure planning, public safety services, 
utilities, community facilities, childcare, and interagency coordination. Its policies are 
intended to ensure that future growth is supported by adequate facilities and services, that 
development contributes proportionally to infrastructure needs, and that public 
investments align with the County’s land use vision and long-term goals. 
 
Recommendation 
Staff recommend that the Planning Commission review the proposed amendments to 
Chapters 10 and 4 of the Snyderville Basin General Plan and provide direction to staff. 
 
Exhibits 
A: Draft chapters 10 and 4 of the Snyderville Basin General Plan  
4
Chapter 10: Public Facilities and Services 
 
Context 
 
The Snyderville Basin has experienced substantial growth in recent decades, increasing 
demand for public infrastructure, utilities, and community services. Public facilities are 
distributed throughout the Basin, with major concentrations near Kimball Junction, Quinn’s 
Junction, and adjacent areas of Park City. Coordination among service providers, special 
districts, municipalities, and public agencies is essential to maintaining efficient and 
reliable public services. 
 
The Basin is served by a network of public and private utility providers, including water, 
wastewater, public safety, transportation, and recreation agencies. As growth continues, 
infrastructure planning must balance service capacity, environmental constraints, ﬁscal 
sustainability, and the community’s long-term land use vision. 
 
Public facilities and services also play an important role in shaping development patterns. 
Coordinating future growth with available infrastructure and service capacity supports more 
efficient land use, reduces long-term public costs, and directs development to appropriate 
locations. 
 
Existing Conditions 
 
The Snyderville Basin contains a range of public facilities and service providers that support 
residents, businesses, and visitors. Existing facilities include public schools, parks, libraries, 
public safety facilities, utility infrastructure, and community service centers. 
 
Wastewater service within much of the Basin is provided by the Snyderville Basin Water 
Reclamation District, although some neighborhoods continue to rely on individual septic 
systems or smaller private systems. Culinary water service is provided primarily by Mountain 
Regional Water Special Service District, Summit Water Distribution Company, Gorgoza 
Mutual Water Company, and several smaller providers and private wells. 
 
Public safety services are provided by the Park City Police Department and Park City Fire 
District. Additional community services, including public health programs and mobile health 
services, support residents throughout the Basin. 
 
Maps and supporting reference materials identifying major public facilities, utility service 
areas, and public service providers are included in the Appendix and supporting documents. 
Together, these materials help illustrate how existing service systems are distributed across 
the Snyderville Basin and provide context for the community priorities described below. 
 
 
5
Community Engagement Feedback 
 
Community engagement feedback emphasized the importance of coordinating future 
development with available infrastructure, public services, transit, trails, and community 
amenities. Residents generally supported concentrating growth and redevelopment in areas 
with existing facilities and services to improve efficiency and reduce impacts on open space 
and transportation systems. 
 
Approximately sixty -nine percent (69%) of respondents indicated that incentivizing 
redevelopment near public facilities, transit, trails, and other services was an appropriate or 
very appropriate strategy for accommodating future housing and growth. 
 
Public Facilities and Services Goals, Objectives, Policies, and Strategies 
GOAL: Provide efficient, coordinated, and sustainable public facilities and services that 
support existing communities, accommodate future growth, and maintain quality of life 
within the Snyderville Basin. 
OBJECTIVE A: Coordinate public facilities and services with future growth and 
development patterns. 
Policy 10.1 – Coordinate infrastructure planning with land use decisions. Plan and 
provide public facilities, utilities, and services in a manner consistent with the 
General Plan’s Future Land Use Map and anticipated growth patterns. 
Strategy 10.1.1: Coordinate regularly with public agencies, utility providers, 
and special service districts regarding planned development, infrastructure 
capacity, and long-term service needs. 
Policy 10.2 – Require adequate public facilities for new development. Ensure that 
new development is served by adequate public facilities and infrastructure, 
including transportation, water, wastewater, emergency services, and utilities. 
Strategy 10.2.1: Maintain and periodically update infrastructure and service 
area mapping to support long-range planning and capital improvement 
coordination. 
Policy 10.3 – Support coordinated utility and communications infrastructure. 
Encourage coordination with utility providers to support reliable utility services and 
expanded access to broadband and emerging communications technologies. 
OBJECTIVE B: Maintain public health, safety, and emergency preparedness throughout the 
Snyderville Basin. 
6
Policy 10.4 – Support adequate public safety and emergency services. Coordinate 
with public safety agencies and service providers to maintain appropriate levels of 
emergency response, ﬁre protection, law enforcement, and public health services 
throughout the Basin. 
Strategy 10.4.1: Coordinate with emergency service providers to identify 
future facility and service needs based on projected growth and service 
demand. 
Policy 10.5 – Improve community resilience and emergency preparedness. Support 
planning and infrastructure improvements that enhance the community’s ability to 
prepare for, respond to, and recover from natural hazards, climate-related events, 
and other emergencies. 
Strategy 10.5.1: Evaluate the resiliency of essential public facilities and 
service centers, including their ability to maintain operations during 
emergency events. 
Policy 10.6 – Plan facilities based on service demand. Plan public facilities to 
provide acceptable levels of service while balancing operational efficiency, ﬁscal 
sustainability, and long-term community needs. 
OBJECTIVE C: Ensure that growth contributes proportionally to the cost of public 
infrastructure and services. 
Policy 10.7 – Promote ﬁscally responsible growth. Encourage development patterns 
that efficiently utilize existing infrastructure and minimize long-term public service 
costs. 
Policy 10.8 – Require proportional infrastructure contributions. Require new 
development to contribute its proportionate share toward infrastructure and service 
improvements necessary to serve that development. 
Policy 10.9 – Prioritize development near existing infrastructure. Encourage growth 
and redevelopment in areas where public facilities, utilities, and services already 
exist or are planned. 
OBJECTIVE D: Support community facilities and services that enhance quality of life and 
serve residents of all ages. 
Policy 10.10 – Support childcare and family services. Encourage the development 
and expansion of childcare facilities and related family-support services within the 
Snyderville Basin. 
7
Strategy 10.10.1: Evaluate Development Code and permitting processes to 
reduce barriers to appropriately located childcare facilities. 
Policy 10.11 – Encourage coordination among community service providers. 
Support partnerships among schools, childcare providers, senior programs, 
recreation providers, and social service organizations to improve service delivery 
and accessibility. 
Policy 10.12 – Promote publicly accessible community facilities. Encourage 
community facilities and gathering spaces that provide educational, recreational, 
cultural, and social opportunities for residents. 
Policy 10.13 – Encourage shared and joint-use facilities. Coordinate with the Park 
City School District, Park City Municipal Corporation, and other public entities to 
support the joint use of schools, parks, recreation facilities, and civic spaces, where 
appropriate. 
8
Chapter 4:  
Transportation and Connectivity   
 
The Transportation and Connectivity Element establishes the framework for planning and maintaining a 
safe, efficient, and connected transportation system within the Snyderville Basin. It provides policy 
direction for road, transit, bicycle and pedestrian facilities, and emerging mobility options to support the 
movement of people and goods while promoting community livability, environmental stewardship, and 
economic vitality.  
 
This Element works in coordination with  Summit County’s Long- Range Transportation Plan and Active 
Transportation Plan. While those plans provide technical analysis, capital planning, and implementation 
guidance, this Element  sets the overarching policy direction to ensure that transportation investments 
align with the land use vision and growth patters identified in this General Plan. Integrating transportation 
and land use planning is essential to supporting a resilient and efficient system over time.  
 
The Snyderville Basin’s transportation network reflects its role as both a residential community and a 
regional destination. Travel demand is influenced by tourism commuter patterns and daily service needs, 
with significant traffic concentrated along key corridors and around Kimball Junction. Mountainous 
terrain, preserved open space, and historic development patterns limit roa dway connections between 
some neighborhoods, creating both challenges and opportunities for improved connectivity.  
 
The Basin benefits from an expanding transit system, a well- established active transportation network, 
and regional partnerships that support mobility options beyond  single-occupancy vehicles. Continued 
coordination between transportation planning and land use decisions  will be essential to improving 
system efficiency, enhancing neighborhood  connectivity, and supporting fut ure growth in a manner 
consistent with community values.  
 
CONTEXT 
 
The Snyderville Basin’s transportation network reflects its unique role as both a residential community 
and a regional recreation gateway. Interstate 80 forms a primary regional access  corridor along the 
northern portion of the Basin, while State Routes 224 and 248 carry the majority of local and visitor traffic 
between residential neighborhoods, Kimball Junction, Park City, and resort destinations. Kimball Junction 
functions as a central commercial and mobility hub where regional, commuter, and local trave l patterns 
intersect.  
 
The Basin’s roadway system developed incrementally through subdivision approvals and development 
agreements, resulting in limited direct connections between some neighborhoods. Mountainous terrain, 
preserved open space, and environmentally sensitive lands further constrain opportunities for new 
roadway links. As a result, traffic is concentrated along a small number of key corridors, particularly during 
peak commuting periods and high visitation seasons.  
 
Transportation demand is influenced by resident commuting, workforce travel, visitor activity, and 
regional through-traffic. Seasonal fluctuations significantly affect corridor performance, especially along 
State Roads 224 and 248 and within the Kimball Junction area. These dynamics underscore the importance 
9
of coordinating land use decisions with transportation planning to improve system efficiency and manage 
congestion.  
 
The Basin benefits from an expanding transit system operated by High Valley Transit and a well-
established active transportation network that connects neighborhoods, schools, commercial areas, and 
recreation destinations. Continued coordination with the Utah Department of Transportation , Park City 
Municipal, transit providers, and regional partners is essential to improving connectivity, enhancing 
safety, and supporting future growth with community goals.  
 
Existing Conditions  
Map of major roads and levels of service 
Transit Lines & Ridership Statistics 
Bus Routes  
Park and Ride Facilities  
Bike Routes can be found in the Summit County Active Transportation Plan 
Long Range Transportation Plan 2022-2050 
 
The Snyderville Basin’s transportation system is structured around a limited number of primary corridors, 
including Interstate 80 and State Routes 224 and 248. These facilities carry the majority of resident, 
commuter, and visitor traﬃc and experience the highest levels of congestion during peak travel periods 
and seasonal visitation. Traﬃc conditions along these corridors are commonly evaluated using Level of 
Service (LOS), a measure of roadway performance that ranges from free-ﬂow conditions (Level A) to 
heavily congested or failing conditions (Level F). 
 
Transit service within the Basin is provided by High Valley Transit, which operates ﬁxed-route service, 
commuter connections, neighborhood shuttles, and regional routes linking Kimball Junction, residential 
areas, Park City, and Salt Lake County. Ridership has grown since inception, reﬂecting increased demand 
for alternatives to single occupancy vehicle travel.  
 
The Basin is also served by an established and expanding active transportation network, including multi-
use trails, bike routes, sidewalks, and regional pathway connections. These facilities provide important 
connections between neighborhoods, schools, commercial centers, transit stops, and recreation 
destinations. However, gaps remain in some areas, particularly where terrain, roadway design, or 
development patterns limit connectivity.  
 
Community engagement highlighted transportation as a central quality-of-life issue. Traﬃc congestion 
was identiﬁed as one of the most signiﬁcant community concerns, second only to natural areas. While 
the majority of residents currently rely on single-occupancy vehicles for daily travel, survey results 
indicate strong interest in expanded transit service, improved walkability, and greater opportunities to 
bicycle within the community. These themes underscore the importance of continued investment in 
multimodal transportation options and thoughtful coordination between land use and mobility planning.  
 
Transportation Goals, Objectives, Policies and Strategies  
 
GOAL: Promote and protect a safe, eﬃcient, and fully integrated connected multimodal transportation 
system that provides prioritizes a variety of mobility options, reduces reliance on single-occupancy 
10
vehicles, preserves and enhances existing transportation assets, and supports and reinforces the Basin’s 
current strengths, land use vision, environmental assets, and community character. 
 
OBJECTIVE A: Expand, enhance, multimodal transportation options that are safe, reliable, and 
convenient. 
 
Policy 4.1: Require and maintain Support a Multimodal Transportation System. Plan, 
preserve, and maintain a transportation network that accommodates vehicles, public 
transit, pedestrians, bicyclists, equestrians where appropriate, and emerging mobility 
options, with safe, direct, and accessible connections to transit stops and mobility hubs. 
 
 
Strategy 4.1.1: Coordinate transportation improvements with the Long-Range 
Transportation Plan and Active Transportation Plan: 
Strategy 4.1.2: Partner with High Valley Transit to identify service gaps and 
prioritize service expansions. 
 
Policy 4.2: Strengthen active transportation connectivity. Encourage Require and 
prioritize development, preservation, and expansion of pedestrian, bicycle, and trail 
networks as transportation infrastructure that connect neighborhoods, commercial 
areas, schools, recreation areas, parks, employment areas, and transit facilities, 
including ﬁrst- and last-mile connections.  
 
Strategy 4.2.1: Coordinate with the Snyderville Basin Special Recreation District 
and regional partners to expand, maintain, and protect trail corridors that 
function as transportation connections, where appropriate, . between 
neighborhoods, schools, commercial areas, and transit facilities. 
 
Strategy 4.2.2: Encourage Require integration of active transportation facilities 
into new development and redevelopment projects, including direct and 
accessible pedestrian and bicycle connections to transit stops, schools, and daily 
destinations. 
 
 
OBJECTIVE B: Improve system performance and manage congestion through strategic 
infrastructure investment and transportation demand strategies.  
 
Policy 4.3: Prioritize eﬃcient use of existing infrastructure. Maximize the performance of 
existing transportation infrastructure through operational improvements, demand 
management strategies, and targeted system upgrades before expanding roadway 
capacity, and preserve opportunities for future multimodal infrastructure before 
development forecloses needed connections or corridors. 
 
 
Strategy 4.3.1: Support Advance development of congestion management tools, 
corridor improvement strategies, and corridor preservation measures.  
 
Strategy 4.3.2: Evaluate opportunities to improve transit access, intersection 
performance, and roadway operations before constructing new roadways, and 
identify and secure needed multimodal connections while rights-of-way and 
corridor opportunities still exist. 
 
11
 
Policy 4.4: Support transportation demand management. Encourage strategies that 
reduce vehicle trips and peak period congestion.  
 
Strategy 4.4.1: Support Park and ride facilities and transit hubs at appropriate 
regional locations.  
 
Strategy 4.4.2: Encourage employer-based carpooling, rideshare, and flexible 
work programs. 
 
Strategy 4.4.3: Support mobility planning for special events and high-traffic 
destinations.  
 
Policy 4.5: Improve corridor mobility and safety. Plan roadway improvements and 
access management strategies that improve mobility, safety, and system efficiency 
along major transportation corridors.  
 
Objective C: Design transportation facilities that are safe, accessible, and integrated with 
surrounding land uses.  
 
Policy 4.6: Promote complete streets principles. Design and retrofit streets to safely 
accommodate all users, including pedestrians, bicyclists, transit riders, motorists, and 
other appropriate users.  
 
Strategy 4.6.1: Incorporate multimodal design standards into transportation 
and development review processes.  
 
Strategy 4.6.2: Prioritize improvements that enhance safety and accessibility for 
all users.  
 
Policy 4.7: Integrate transportation with community design. Design transportation 
facilities to support neighborhood character, social interaction, and community 
connectivity rather than functioning solely as vehicle corridors. 
 
Policy 4.8: Improve wayfinding and user navigation.  Support coordinated wayfinding 
systems that assist residents and visitors in navigating vehicular, transit, and active 
transportation networks.   
 
Strategy 4.8.1: Encourage development of coordinated signs and navigation 
systems that improve user experience and safety.  
 
Policy 4.9: Support traffic calming and context-sensitive design. Encourage traffic 
calming measures and roadway designs that promote appropriate travel speeds and 
improve safety in residential and mixed-use areas.  
 
Objective D: Align transportation infrastructure with land use patterns to support compact, 
connected and walkable development.  
 
12
Policy 4.10: Promote interconnected developments. Require new development to 
provide street, trail, and pedestrian connections to adjacent neighborhoods, commercial 
areas, transit facilities, schools, parks, employment areas, and community destinations, 
and to preserve future connections where immediate completion is not feasible.  
 
Strategy 4.10.1: Encourage Require street and pathway connectivity between 
subdivisions and adjacent properties, or dedication of easements and 
alignments that preserve those future connections.  
Strategy 4.10.2: Identify and prioritize key pedestrian, bicycle, trail, and transit 
access connection corridors before development or redevelopment limits the 
ability to establish them.  
 
Policy 4.11: Encourage walkable development patterns. Encourage street networks, 
block lengths, and intersection spacing that support safe and convenient pedestrian 
movement.  
 
Policy 4.12: Incorporate transit into major development. Encourage Require integration 
of transit facilities, transit-supportive site design, and safe, direct, and accessible 
pedestrian and bicycle connections to transit stops into major development and 
redevelopment projects, while preserving the opportunity for future transit access and 
service expansion.  
 
Policy 4.13: Expand safe routes to schools and community destinations. Prioritize 
Support partnerships to expand safe, direct, and accessible routes for students and 
residents of all ages and abilities, including connections to transit stops where 
appropriate. 
 
Strategy 4.13.1: Coordinate with schools, recreation providers, and community 
organizations to identify and prioritize safe, direct, accessible, route 
improvements, including crossings, sidewalks, trails, and connections to transit 
stops and community destinations.  
 
Objective E: Coordinate transportation planning across jurisdictions and agencies. 
 
Policy 4.14: Support regional transportation collaboration. Coordinate with UDOT, Park 
City Municipal, Wasatch County, Salt Lake County, High Valley Transit, and other 
partners to improve regional transportation connectivity and efficiency. 
 
Policy 4.15: Integrate transportation and recreation networks. Coordinate transportation 
and trail systems that serve both recreation and daily transportation purposes, and 
recognize trails as part of the multimodal transportation network where they provide 
practical connections between neighborhoods, schools, transit, commercial areas, and 
other community destinations. 
 
 
Strategy 4.15.1: Partner with the Snyderville Basin Special Recreation District 
and regional partners to align transportation and recreation planning eﬀorts and 
to identify, preserve, and improve trail corridors that function as key multimodal 
transportation connections. 
 
13
 Community Development Department  
P.O. Box 128 
60 North Main Street 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
summitcountyutah.gov 
 
  
 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
To:   Snyderville Basin Planning Commission  
From:   Tiffanie N. Robinson, Senior Planner 
Date of Meeting : June 9, 2026 
Type of Item :   Canyons Development Agreement Amendment 
   Public Hearing, Possible Recommendation     
Process:  Legislative Review 
File:   #23-064 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
Proposal 
 
The applicant is requesting approval of a text amendment to Section 3.15 of the Canyons 
Amended and Restated Development Agreement related to automobile access  to the Red Pine 
Village, Red Pine Lake, and Tombstone development areas. The amendment would clarify that 
vehicular access for residents and guests may occur via a gate -controlled private road , while 
continuing to prohibit general public automobile access , EXHIBIT A . The applicant states that  
the amendment is necessary to satisfy emergency evacuation and life -safety requirements 
identified by the Park City Fire District.  
 
Project Description  
 
Project Name: Canyons Development Agreement Amendment  to Section 
3.15 - Automobile Access to Red Pine Village , Tombstone, 
and Red Pine Lake Development Areas 
 Project #:   23-064 
Applicant(s):   Dave Smith, authorized representative 
Property Owner(s):  TCFC PC Leaseco, LC 
State of Utah School and Institutional Trust Lands 
Administration “SITLA”  
Location: Red Pine Village, Tombstone and Red Pine Lake Areas 
Zone District:   Specially Planned Area (SPA) 
Type of Process:  Legislative 
Final Land Use Authority: Summit County Council 
 
 
14
2 
 
Vicinity Map: 
 
Background 
 
Historical background of the SPA:  
The Canyons Specially Planned Area (SPA) was originally approved in 1998.  This approval 
involved 6,388 acres  and five (5) different property owners.  With that approval there were 
entitlements granted for some of the developments at the Canyons known as Ski 98.  This 
included developments such as the Grand Summit and Sundial Lodge, the Colony and the 
Silverado.   It was anticipated that there would be a comprehensive amendment to this plan 
that would expand the entitlements and property involved. 
  
In November of 1999, that amendment to the SPA was completed.  After numerous public 
meetings and hearings, the SPA was extended to include approximately 7,768 acres and 37 
property owners, establishing the current Development Agreement (DA ). The guiding planning 
principles for the Development Agreement are known as the Global Principles: 
 
15
3 
• Comfortable Carrying Capacity
• Allowable Density
• Unit Configurations & Occupancy
• Resort Support and Mountain Recreation
• Viewshed
• Environment
• Employee Housing
• Economic Base
• Transportation
• Highway 224 & Resort Entry
• Benchmark Assessments
• Development Design Character
• Master Community and Resort Facility, Amenity, Recreation, Cultural Arts, and
Marketing Plan
• Community Integration
• Infrastructure Maintenance and Management
• Construction Mitigation and Management
• Development Pattern
• Development Phasing
The Development Agreement organizes the resort into twelve distinct development areas, each 
with specific  development  standards related to permitted uses, building heights, density 
allocations, transportation systems, and  environmental considera tions. A central objective of 
the DA was to balance resort development with protection of  the  mountain  environment, 
viewsheds, and transportation functionality through coordinated long-range planning. 
As part of the SPA's Global Principles and overall resort planning framework, Section 3.15 of the 
Development Agreement established limitations on automobile access within the Red Pine 
Village, Red Pine Lake, and Tombstone development areas, EXHIBIT B. The provision anticipated 
a transportation system utilizing remote parking, concierge services, and shuttle or lift access to 
reduce vehicular traffic impacts within the mid-mountain environment. Section 3.15 currently 
states that, "In general, automobile access to these areas will be prohibited," while allowing 
access for emergency and service vehicles.
Additional provisions of the Development Agreement, including the site-specific design 
guidelines applicable to these development areas, reinforce the intent to limit automobile 
access and describe the anticipated transportation and guest access systems for the Red Pine 
Village, Red Pine Lake, and Tombstone development areas, EXHIBIT C.
Due to the location and phasing requirements out
lined in the Development Agreement, the 
mid-mountain development has not commenced and cannot begin until specific thresholds are 
met. As part of the long-range planning for the Red Pine Village, Red Pine Lake, a nd Tombstone 
development areas, the a pplicant is working to address a ccess and traffic concerns for these 
areas. 
16
4 
 
In response, the applicant proposes a text amendment to Section 3.15 that would continue to 
prohibit general public automobile access while allowing limited vehicular access for residents 
and guests via a gate -controlled non-public road. The applicant states that the amendment is 
intended to address life -safety concerns while maintaining the overall intent to limit  public 
automobile traffic within the development areas.  
 
Section 3.15 was originally intended to minimize vehicular traffic impacts within the mid -
mountain development areas  b y constructing a rural road, limited to emergency and ser vice 
vehicles, to reduce visual and environmental impacts associated with roadway infrastructure 
and to promote the use of alternative transportation systems within the resort environment. 
 
Per the  applicant's statement, “TCFC has vetted Red Pine traffic -related matters with County 
personnel and the Fire Marshal, including access for service vehicles and emergency services. 
From those discussions, it has become clear that if the "general" limitation under Section 3.15 
were to be applied in such a manner as to strictly prohibit all vehicular access not only for the 
general public but for residents and guests in particular, such a strict prohibition would 
eliminate a crucial means of evacuation that must be available in the event of a wildfire or other 
life-threatening emergency. The Fire Marshal has provided an updated letter that states  (i) the 
use of a gondola is not a sufficient means of egress for occupants of the development and does 
not meet the requirements of the Park City Fire District or the International Fire Code, and 
likewise, (ii) the use of shuttles is not a sufficient option for emergency egress. The Fire Marshal 
has further concluded that, given the constraints of the development area, personal 
automobiles need to be available, as a combination of shuttles and lifts or a gondola would not 
provide a viable means of emergency evacuation for the numbers and locations of people on the 
mountain. A copy of (i) the proposed 11-word redline amendment, (ii) a letter stating that TCFC 
would be willing to provide, agreeing to the imposition of a requirement that the roadway be 
non-public, gate-controlled access, and (iii) the Life Safety letter from the Park City District Fire 
Marshall.” 
 
TCFC believes this critical life -safety issue can be adequately addressed and reconciled with the 
general traffic limitation by adding a clarifying phrase in Section 3.15. This phrase would restrict 
vehicular traffic to residents and guests only via a gate -controlled non-public access road. 
Emergency and resort service vehicles would, of course, still be allowed. This approach would 
achieve the dual County goals of (i) reducing traffic and (ii) ensuring life safety by providing the 
only practical means of emergency evacuation.  
 
The Snyderville Basin Planning Commission previously reviewed the proposed amendment 
during multiple work sessions held since 2023. During those discussions, the Commission 
considered issues related to emergency access, roadway alignment, grading, retaining walls, 
visual impacts, and potential environmental effects associated with future roadway 
improvements. The applicant subsequently provided supplemental materials, including visual 
simulations, roadway exhibits, and updated correspondence from the Park City Fire District , 
EXHIBIT D. 
 
17
5 
 
Due to technical issues, the discussion time at the July 2025 meeting was limited, so a follow-up 
work session was held on September 9, 2025. The applicant asked the Park City Fire Chief, Mike 
Owens, to attend in person to help answer questions regarding the necessity of vehicular 
access to the development area  and provided supplemental drawings of the potential 
alignment of High Mountain Road.   
 
On May 12, 2026, prior to scheduling a public hearing, the Snyderville Basin Planning 
Commission held an additional work session to address outstanding questions related to the 
proposed amendment. Discussion focused on potential wildlife, environmental, and visual 
impacts associated with a conceptual alignment of the access road; whether gondola and 
shuttle transportation systems would continue to serve the development areas; the Fire 
Marshal's rationale for determining that gondola and shuttle systems alone do not provide 
adequate emergency evacuation capabilities; and potential development intensity, including 
estimated unit counts and associated trip generation within the Red Pine development area. 
 
During the discussion, the Planning Commission requested additional information regarding the 
2018 Traffic Impact Study and anticipated development capacity within the Red Pine Village, 
Red Pine Lake, and Tombstone development areas. The applicants and representatives of the 
Park City Fire District emphasized the importance of establishing a comprehensive emergency 
evacuation strategy before the area is developed. 
 
Given the multiple work session discussion s, the applicant is pre pared for a recommendation  
from the Commission, based on the previously submitted  information. 
 
Recommendation 
 
Staff recommends that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission conduct a public hearing and 
discuss the proposed amendment to modify Section 3.15 of the Canyons Development 
Agreement regarding Automobile Prohibition for Red Pine Village, Red Pine Lake , and 
Tombstone Development Areas.  Taking into consideration the application proposed 
amendment to Section 3.15 of the Canyons Development Agreement, the Planning Commission 
may recommend approval, approval with conditions, or denial to the County Council. 
 
The Planning Commission should articulate Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and possible 
Conditions to support their recommendation. 
 
Public Notice, Meetings and Comments 
  
This item has been noticed as a public hearing in the May 30, 2026 , edition of the Park Record.  
Courtesy notices have been sent to all property owners within 1,000 feet of the subject parcels.   
After receiving a recommendation from the S nyderville Basin Planning Commission, staff will 
schedule further discussion and a future public hearing with the Summit County Council.  
 
Attachment(s): 
18
6 
 
 
EXHIBIT A -  Narrative, Proposed Text Change, Fire Marshal letter  
EXHIBIT B – Section 3.15 of the Canyons Development Agreement  
EXHIBIT C -  Site Specific  Design Guidelines for t he Tombstone, Red P ine and Red Pine Lake 
Development Areas  
EXHIBIT D -  Potential road alignment, visual analysis, mitigation  efforts, 2023 Traffic  Analysis 
 
19
EXHIBIT A1
20
EXHIBIT A2
21
WHAT’S PRESENTLY IN FRONT OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION 
IS A LIFE SAFETY MATTER 
 
1. THE RED PINE ACCESS-VIA-GONDOLA IDEA WAS A 
ROMANTIC CONCEPT FLOATED YEARS AGO BY TCFC’S MASTER 
DEVELOPER PREDECESSOR, AND WAS NOT A COUNTY-INITIATED 
DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENT OR TRAFFIC MITIGATION 
MEASURE 
2. NONETHELESS, RECENT TRAFFIC STUDIES ESTABLISH THAT 
PHYSICAL TRAFFIC MITIGATION IMPROVEMENTS THAT TAKE INTO 
ACCOUNT THE RED PINE DENSITY HAVE ALREADY BEEN PUT IN 
PLACE 
3. ALL TRAFFIC RELATED TO RED PINE WILL BE COMING IN AND 
OUT OF THE RESORT REGARDLESS, AND WILL NOT INCREASE 
INBOUND/OUTBOUND TRAFFIC. OF NOTE, THE NEW PARKING 
GARAGE WILL CONSOLIDATE EXISTING SURFACE PARKING AND 
THEREBY SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCE INTERNAL TRAFFIC 
4. RED PINE ROAD (AN EXTENSION OF EXISTING HIGH 
MOUNTAIN ROAD) WILL BE CONSTRUCTED REGARDLESS, AND 
WILL CONFORM TO COUNTY STANDARDS AND FIRE DISTRICT 
REQUIREMENTS.  THE ROAD HAS BEEN COMPLETELY RE-
ENGINEERED AND RELOCATED FROM ITS INITIAL 1999 ALIGNMENT 
TO A MUCH BETTER VISUALLY SENSITIVE ALIGNMENT 
5. MOREOVER, AS OF 2026, WE NOW HAVE NOT ONLY ONE BUT 
TWO GONDOLAS TO RED PINE 
6. WE ARE DEALING SOLELY WITH A LIFE SAFETY MATTER, 
NOTHING MORE 
EXHIBIT A3
22
EXHIBIT A4
23
EXHIBIT A5
24
construed to permit or authorize any such holder to devote the Property, or any portion 
thereof, to any uses, or to construct any improvements thereon, other than those uses and 
improvements provided for or authorized by this Amended Agreement, as would be the case 
in any assignment, and thus shall be subject to all of the terms and conditions of this 
Amended Agreement, to include the obligations related to the completion of amenities and 
improvements. 
Section 3 .12 Transfers of Development Rights (TDR). A number of additional units have 
been established within the Canyons SP A for the purposes of allowing the transfer of density, 
both within and from outside the boundary of the Canyons SP A, to preserve certain open 
space and important viewsheds. Exhibit K which incorporates the TDR Agreement (Exhibit 
K. l) and the TDR Program (Exhibit K.2) establishes all of the Transfer of Density
allowances under this Amended Agreement and of the obligations and commitments related to
the transfer of density, which obligations and commitment are expressly assumed and agreed
to by the County and Developers. Those owners of parcels of real property located outside
the SP A boundary that have agreed to restrict the development of such property in exchange
for a transfer of density to within the SP A boundary hereby agree to record a covenant
against their property acknowledging the nature and extent of such restrictions.
Section 3.13 Other Ski Resorts. With regard to the Mines Ventures and Silver King Mines 
development areas, any connection to other ski resorts must be approved by both Summit 
County, the Master Developer and the Developer of The Colony. 
Section 3.14 Fractional Interest and Timeshare Unit Conversion Prohibition to Primary 
Residential Units. The parties understand and agree that all timeshare and fractional interest 
units shall be restricted in such a way as to prohibit conversion of such to use as primary 
residential dwelling units. Densities received by Developers for such units are granted by 
the County under the express understanding that these timeshare and fractional interest units 
are for resort accommodation only. 
Section 3.15 Automobile Prohibition at Red Pine Village. Tombstone. and Red Pine Lake 
Development Areas. As required in Section 3.3.5(a) of this Amended Agreement, a remote 
parking and management plan, to include check-in, concierge service and transportation 
between parking and accommodation, must be included in the Transportation Plan. This 
aspect of the Plan shall be adopted and implemented in conjunction with\hotel/lodging unit 
development in Red Pine Village, Tombstone, and Red Pine Lake Development Areas. In 
general, automobile access to these areas will be prohibited. Access will be provided and 
maintained for service vehicles and emergency services. 
ARTICLE 4 
FURTHER OBLIGATIONS OF THE COUNTY 
Section 4.1 Land-Secured Financing Districts and Related Financing Techniques. At the 
request of the Master Developer or the RVMA, the County, in its sole and absolute 
discretion, may consider the use of land-secured financing for financing the public 
56 00553911 BK01297 PG00�60 
EXHIBIT B
25
/0 /1 /2 /1 /3 /4 /5 /i255 /7 /7 /8 /3 /9 /i255 /10 /11 /12/13/13 /14 /15 /16 /i255 /17 /18 /19 /20 /21
/21 /20 /20 /22 /23 /8 /1 /1 /16 /18 /19 /20 /21 /24 /14 /13 /13 /14 /15 /16 /24 /25 /13/26/1/27 /16 /28 /1/29/9/30 /24 /31 /32 /31 /32 /33 /32 /9 /31 /5 /34 /7 /7 /7 /24 /33 /31 /32 /2 /7 /0 /0 /3 /5 /3 /4 /3 /2 /24 /3 /31 /32 /31 /7 /33 /3 /0 /18 /5 /33 /33 /4 /2 /24 /9 /0 /32 /0 /33 /2 /32 /35 /5 /4 /4 /24 /30 /2 /33 /9 /7 /32 /3 /33 /36 /5 /34 /7 /7 /4 /24 /0 /31 /0 /9 /30 /2 /7 /31 /21 /5 /33 /32 /24 /30 /2 /7 /2 /30 /32 /20 /5 /30/19/7 /1 /7
/37 /38/39/40/41 /38 /42 /i255 /44 /45 /46 /44 /47 /i255/39/i255/48 /49 /50 /48 /51 /52 /53 /49 /54 /55 /i255 /51 /51 /51 /50 /53 /53 /52 /51 /44 /54/56/i255 /46/45 /51 /46 /57 /i255 /39
/58 /59 /59 /60 /61/40/62/38 /63 /38 /i255 /64 /65 /66 /45 /i255 /55 /66 /67 /67 /45 /i255 /68 /69 /64 /69 /i255 /55 /38 /70 /71 /45 /i255 /55 /58 /67 /45 /i255 /58 /72 /73 /37/66/74/38 /75 /76 /77 /38 /63 /i255 /78 /i255 /37 /59 /79 /40 /41 /75 /80 /81 /82 /77
/83 /49 /49 /i255 /39
EXHIBIT C1
26
construed to permit or authorize any such holder to devote the Property, or any portion 
thereof, to any uses, or to construct any improvements thereon, other than those uses and 
improvements provided for or authorized by this Amended Agreement, as would be the case 
in any assignment, and thus shall be subject to all of the terms and conditions of this 
Amended Agreement, to include the obligations related to the completion of amenities and 
improvements. 
Section 3 .12 Transfers of Development Rights (TDR). A number of additional units have 
been established within the Canyons SP A for the purposes of allowing the transfer of density, 
both within and from outside the boundary of the Canyons SP A, to preserve certain open 
space and important viewsheds. Exhibit K which incorporates the TDR Agreement (Exhibit 
K. l) and the TDR Program (Exhibit K.2) establishes all of the Transfer of Density
allowances under this Amended Agreement and of the obligations and commitments related to
the transfer of density, which obligations and commitment are expressly assumed and agreed
to by the County and Developers. Those owners of parcels of real property located outside
the SP A boundary that have agreed to restrict the development of such property in exchange
for a transfer of density to within the SP A boundary hereby agree to record a covenant
against their property acknowledging the nature and extent of such restrictions.
Section 3.13 Other Ski Resorts. With regard to the Mines Ventures and Silver King Mines 
development areas, any connection to other ski resorts must be approved by both Summit 
County, the Master Developer and the Developer of The Colony. 
Section 3.14 Fractional Interest and Timeshare Unit Conversion Prohibition to Primary 
Residential Units. The parties understand and agree that all timeshare and fractional interest 
units shall be restricted in such a way as to prohibit conversion of such to use as primary 
residential dwelling units. Densities received by Developers for such units are granted by 
the County under the express understanding that these timeshare and fractional interest units 
are for resort accommodation only. 
Section 3.15 Automobile Prohibition at Red Pine Village. Tombstone. and Red Pine Lake 
Development Areas. As required in Section 3.3.5(a) of this Amended Agreement, a remote 
parking and management plan, to include check-in, concierge service and transportation 
between parking and accommodation, must be included in the Transportation Plan. This 
aspect of the Plan shall be adopted and implemented in conjunction with\hotel/lodging unit 
development in Red Pine Village, Tombstone, and Red Pine Lake Development Areas. In 
general, automobile access to these areas will be prohibited. Access will be provided and 
maintained for service vehicles and emergency services. 
ARTICLE 4 
FURTHER OBLIGATIONS OF THE COUNTY 
Section 4.1 Land-Secured Financing Districts and Related Financing Techniques. At the 
request of the Master Developer or the RVMA, the County, in its sole and absolute 
discretion, may consider the use of land-secured financing for financing the public 
56 00553911 BK01297 PG00�60 
EXHIBIT C2
27
EXHIBIT C3
28
EXHIBIT C4
29
EXHIBIT C5
30
EXHIBIT C6
31
EXHIBIT C7
32
EXHIBIT C8
33
EXHIBIT C9
34
EXHIBIT C10
35
EXHIBIT C11
36
WHAT’S CHANGED SINCE 1999 
1. The Colony has grown up around Red Pine and is fully
platted, changing the context and nature of mid-
mountain
2. As of this year, Red Pine is now served by not just one but
two gondolas – Red Pine and recently completed Sunrise
3. The physical traffic mitigation features necessary to
accommodate the Red Pine density have been put in
place, and other major traffic mitigation measures have
been implemented
4. All traffic coming to the Resort will obviously and in any
event come to the entrance to the Resort, and this year
the existing surface parking areas internal to the resort
will be consolidated into the new parking garage, which
will thereby eliminate substantial internal traffic that
would otherwise be headed up the hill
5. There will in any event be a paved road to Red Pine, which
economics dictate will be constructed in the least
impactful way possible.  More importantly, the roadway
alignment has been re-engineered and relocated to a far
less visually impactful location
6. Rideshare / CV Connect are in place and well used
EXHIBIT D1
37
EXHIBIT D2
38
EXHIBIT D3
39
NORTH
HIGH MOUNTAIN ROAD EXTENSION WALLS EXHIBIT
0 150 300 600 900
HORIZONTAL SCALE:1"=300'
WHITE PINE CANYON ROAD
HIGH MOUNTAIN ROAD
UPHILL WALL #1
DOWNHILL WALL #6
IRON MOUNTAIN LIFT
TIERED SOIL NAIL WALL
ROADWAY SWITCH BACK MULTIPLE WALL #5
MULTI WALL #4
MULTI-WALL #4
UPHILL SOIL NAIL
DOWNHILL MSE
UPHILL WALL #2
ROADWAY SWITCH BACK (TYP)
UPHILL WALL #1
UPHILL WALL #3
DOWNHILL WALL #6 MULTI-WALL #4 MULTI-WALL #5
SOIL NAIL WALLUPHILL WALL #1 UPHILL WALL #2
UPHILL WALL #3
ROADWAY SWITCHBACK
UPHILL WALL #2
UPHILL WALL #3
ROADWAY SWITCHBACK
DOWNHILL WALL #6
DOWNHILL WALL #6MULTI-WALL #4
MULTI-WALL #4
DOWNHILL WALL #6
UPHILL WALL #1
path: C:\Users\Kristian\MDS Dropbox\Projects\02. Canyons High Mountain Road\01. Exhibits\
file name: HMR Extension Walls Exhibit.dwg   |   plot date:  May 07,  2025   |   plotted by: Kristian
ROADWAY SWITCHBACK
EXHIBIT D4
40
DOWNHILL WALL #6 MULTI-WALL #4 MULTI-WALL #5
SOIL NAIL WALLUPHILL WALL #1 UPHILL WALL #2
UPHILL WALL #3
ROADWAY SWITCHBACK
EXHIBIT D5
41
EXHIBIT D6
42
SPECIFIC AND OVERALL TRAFFIC MITIGATION 
 
The Traffic Study for the Major 2018 SPA Amendment Accounted for Red Pine: 
This study addresses the traffic impacts associated with the current and proposed 
future development of the Canyons Resort.  It reviews the current traffic and the 
proposed traffic generated at full build-out of the Resort.  This also includes the future 
traffic for Red Pine Village development. 
 
Traffic Mitigation Measures COMPLETED for Full Build-out of the Resort Include: 
- Roundabout at the Canyons Resort Drive / High Mountain Road intersection 
improved to allow free-flowing movements 
- Length of left-turn lanes on eastbound approach to the SR-224 / Canyons 
Resort Drive intersection maximized to increase queuing capacity 
- Canyons Resort Drive widened to five lanes (two lanes in each direction and 
a center turn lane) between SR-224 and Frostwood Drive 
- Canyons Resort Drive restriped for longer queuing lanes and two left-turn 
lanes to the eastbound approach to the SR-224 / Canyons Resort Drive 
Intersection  
- Additional left-turn lane for ‘Bus Only’ to eastbound approach to SR-224 / 
Canyons Resort Drive Intersection, and receiving lane to northbound SR-224 
- Capacity of Canyons Resort Drive / Frostwood Drive intersection 
Increased 
o  Existing roundabout converted from one-lane to a two-lane 
roundabout 
o Road widened after roundabout for two lanes westbound to Resort 
Core 
o Road widened and eastbound lane approaching roundabout changed 
to two lanes 
o Lower Village Road widened and northbound lane approaching 
roundabout changed to two lanes 
- Canyons Resort Drive eastbound and westbound lanes improved for 
transit stop areas outside of travel lanes. 
EXHIBIT D7
43
 
Additional Traffic Mitigation Measures Include: 
- Ecker Hill park-and-ride lot  [Completed] 
- Lower Village Parking Garage  [Under Construction] 
o Consolidated Resort-wide surface parking lots 
o Includes integrated drop-off / pick-up lanes 
- Cabriolet replacement / upgrade  [In Process] 
- CV Connect / Rideshare  [Completed and Operational] 
o Internal Canyons shuttle system provides set routes and door-to-door 
service 
- Upgraded Lower Village Transit Station  [Anticipated Completion 2027] 
o New shelters 
o Improved bus lanes 
o New bike share station (will be largest in County) 
o Upgrade pedestrian access to/from Transit Station 
- Workforce Housing  [TCFC provided for land acquisition] 
 
EXHIBIT D8
44
EXHIBIT D9
45
EXHIBIT D10
46
EXHIBIT D11
47
EXHIBIT D12
48
EXHIBIT D13
49
EXHIBIT D14
50
EXHIBIT D15
51
EXHIBIT D16
52
 
   
Community Development Department 
P.O. Box 128 
60 North Main Street 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
summitcounty.org 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
To:    Snyderville Basin Planning Commission 
From:    Amanda Curtis, County Planner 
Date of Meeting:  June 9, 2026 
Date of Report:  May 14, 2026 
Type of Item: Snyderville Basin Development Code Amendments – Public 
Hearing and Possible Action  
Final Land Use Authority:  Summit County Council 
Process:   Legislative 
Project Number:  26-078 
 
 
PROPOSAL 
Staff proposes amendments to the Snyderville Basin Development Code (Code) to modify the 
requirements for Amendments to the Zoning Map under 10-7-4, clarify submittal expectations 
under 10-2-18, add clarifying language under the Development Application Procedure and 
Approval Process of 10-3-2, and finally add a definition for Concept Development Plans under 
10-11-1.  
 
As currently written, the Code requires full compliance with Chapters 3 and 4 at the rezone 
application stage. This would require an applicant to prepare detailed site plans and 
engineering-level materials earlier than necessary. This has created inefficiencies in the review 
process and increased costs for applicants without improving decision-making at the legislative 
stage. 
 
The proposed amendments establish a Concept Development Plan (CDP) requirement for 
rezone applications involving a specific development proposal. The CDP is intended to provide 
sufficient information to evaluate the proposed development at a conceptual level without 
requiring fully engineered plans at the time of rezone. 
 
The proposed amendments clarify that: 
• Rezones are evaluated based on a Concept Development Plan (CDP), rather than fully 
engineered plans;  
• The CDP must include sufficient information to evaluate density, land use configuration, 
circulation, open space, and infrastructure feasibility;  
• Detailed engineering plans, subdivision improvement plans, and final site plan materials 
are not required at the time of a rezone application but rather during subsequent 
development approvals; and  
53
• Rezone approvals are binding with respect to key development parameters, including 
maximum density and general development pattern as a condition of approval for the 
rezone. The CDP becomes part of the rezone approval. Future applications must be 
consistent with that plan. If they propose to change density or overall layout, they must 
apply for a rezone amendment. 
 
The proposed amendments are attached as Exhibit A and summarized below: 
 
Changes to Chapter 7 (Zoning Map Amendments): 
1. Requires a Concept Development Plan for rezone applications involving a 
development proposal.  
2. Establish minimum CDP content, including density, layout, circulation, open space, 
and infrastructure approach.  
3. Clarify that rezones evaluate the feasibility of compliance, rather than full 
compliance with Chapters 3 and 4.  
4. Establish binding elements of approval, including maximum density, general land use 
configuration, circulation framework, and open space system.  
5. Clarify that subsequent subdivision and site plan applications must be consistent 
with the approved CDP.  
6. Establish that increases in density or material changes to the development pattern 
require a rezone amendment. 
Changes to Chapter 11 (Definitions):  
1. Add a definition for Concept Development Plan to clarify purpose, required content, 
and level of detail. 
Changes to Chapter 3 (Development Application Procedure):  
1. Clarify that legislative approvals, including rezones, may rely on conceptual-level 
plans.  
2. Specify that detailed engineering and construction drawings are required at the time 
of development permit review, not legislative approval.  
Changes to Chapter 2 (Master Planned Developments): 
1. Remove the requirement that any application for a rezone would also require a 
Master Planned Development process. 
 
 
BACKGROUND 
Staff initiated this amendment in response to ongoing challenges with the current rezone 
process, particularly for projects involving a defined development proposal. 
 
Under the existing Code, rezones are required to demonstrate compliance with development 
standards found in Chapters 3 and 4. To date, there have been very few rezone applications 
successfully approved under the current standards. This sequencing creates inefficiencies, as 
projects often evolve following rezone approval, requiring revisions to previously prepared 
54
materials. It also increases upfront costs and extends review timelines without improving the 
County’s ability to evaluate the appropriateness of a rezone. 
Recent projects, including the Cline Dahle proposal, highlighted the need to clearly distinguish 
between: 
• Legislative decisions (e.g., rezones), which determine appropriate land use and 
development intensity; and  
• Administrative approvals (e.g., subdivision and site plan), which ensure compliance with 
detailed engineering and design standards.  
The proposed amendments are intended to better align the Code with this distinction. 
 
ANALYSIS 
Section 10-7-3 of the Snyderville Basin Development Code establishes a process for 
amendments to the text of the Code. It states that whenever an amendment to the Code is 
initiated, it must be reviewed by the Planning Commission who will deliver a recommendation 
to the County Council. The County Council, after holding a public hearing, can approve, approve 
with modifications, or deny the amendment.  
 
Criteria for approving an amendment to the text of this title: 
 
1. The amendment shall be consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of the 
general plan. 
2. The amendment shall not permit the use of land that is not consistent with the uses of 
properties nearby. 
3. The amendment will not permit suitability of the properties affected by the proposed 
amendment for the uses to which they have been restricted. 
4. The amendment will not permit the removal of the then existing restrictions which will 
unduly affect nearby property. 
5. The amendment will not grant special favors or circumstances solely for one (1) 
property owner or developer. 
6. The amendment will promote the public health, safety and welfare better than the 
existing regulations for which the amendment is intended to change. 
 
RECOMMENDATION 
Staff recommends that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission review the proposed 
language amending specific section of the Snyderville Basin Development Code, conduct a 
public hearing, and vote to forward a positive recommendation to the Summit County Council 
based on the following Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law.  
 
Findings of Fact: 
1. Staff is proposing amendments to the Snyderville Basin Development Code to modify 
the rezone and MPD application process and establish Concept Development Plan 
requirements.  
55
2. The amendments are intended to clarify submittal expectations and improve the 
sequencing of development review. 
3. The amendments establish a framework for evaluating rezones based on conceptual 
development plans rather than fully engineered plans.  
4. The amendments introduce binding development parameters, including maximum 
density and general development pattern, to ensure consistency between rezone 
approvals and subsequent development applications. 
5. The amendments do not modify underlying zoning standards, permitted uses, or 
maximum allowable density. 
6. The amendments apply to properties within the Snyderville Basin Planning District. 
 
Conclusions of Law: 
1. The amendments are consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of the General 
Plan. 
2. The amendments are consistent with the requirements established in the Snyderville 
Basin Development Code.  
3. The proposed amendments are not detrimental to public health, safety, and welfare. 
 
Attachments 
Exhibit A: Proposed Amendments 
 
56
10-2-18: MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS: 
A. Intent: A Master Planned Development (MPD) is a comprehensive project design strategy. MPDs are 
intended to provide better opportunities to create projects that address site conditions, the characteristics of 
the surrounding properties, as well as community and market demands. The MPD process creates 
administrative tools to promote the efficient use of land resources as well as efficient public infrastructure 
and utility services. The goal of this strategy is to produce superior project design through flexi bility and 
innovation to advance the goals of the Snyderville Basin General Plan and this code.  
B. Applicability:  
Required: Unless the property is subject to an approved development agreement, settlement agreement or 
consent agreement, the MPD process shall be required in all zones for the following:  
1. Any application for a rezone; and  
1.2. Any new hotel or lodging project, commercial, retail, office, public, quasi -public, mixed use, or 
industrial project with ten thousand (10,000) square feet or more of gross floor area.  
C. Uses: An MPD can only contain uses, which are allowed, low impact or conditional in the existing zone 
district(s) in which it is located. When the project area includes more than one (1) zone district, uses may be 
relocated across zone district lines if the planning commission determines that relocation results in a project 
design that advances the goals of the Snyderville Basin General Plan.  
D. Process:  
1. Pre-Application Conference: A pre-application conference shall be held with staff for the applicant to 
become acquainted with the MPD procedures and related county requirements and schedules. Staff 
may give preliminary feedback to the applicant based on information available at the conference and 
may inform the applicant of potential issues or special requirements which may result from the 
proposal. Any direction or feedback given at the pre-application conference is not vested. Vesting 
occurs once a complete application is filed, and the project has been reviewed and approved by the 
county council or planning commission.  
2. Pre-Application Work Session Public Meeting:  
a. To provide an opportunity for the public and the planning commission to give preliminary input 
on a concept for an MPD, the applicant may request a work session discussion with the planning 
commission after the pre-application conference with staff. Any direction or feedback given at 
the pre-application work session public meeting is not vested. Vesting occurs once a complete 
application is filed, and the project has been reviewed and approved by the county council or 
planning commission.  
b. At the pre-application work session public meeting, the applicant will have an opportunity to 
present the preliminary concepts for the proposed MPD. The public will be given an opportunity 
to comment on the preliminary concepts so that the applicant can a ddress neighborhood 
concerns in preparation of an application for an MPD.  
c. It is recommended that the applicant host neighborhood meetings in preparation of filing of a 
formal application for an MPD and provide a report conveying neighborhood concerns discussed.  
3. The MPD Application:  
a. Plans for the MPD shall be submitted with a completed application form supplied by the county. 
A list of minimum requirements will accompany the application form. The application must 
include written consent by all owners of the property to be included in  the MPD. Once an 
application is received, it shall be assigned to a staff planner who will review the application for 
completeness. The applicant will be informed if additional information is necessary to constitute 
a complete application.  
57
b. Planning Commission Review and Public Hearing: Except in the case of MPDs that include a 
rezone, tThe planning commission shall approve, approve with modifications, or deny an MPD. 
The planning commission action shall be in the form of written findings of fact, conclusions of 
law, and in the case of approval, conditions of approval. Action shall occur onl y after public 
hearing is held. To approve an MPD, the planning commission will be required to make the 
findings outlined in section F herein. In the case of MPDs that include a rezone, the planning 
commission shall review and forward a recommendation to the county council, including findings 
of fact, conclusions of law and conditions of approval.  
c. County Council Review and Public Hearing: In the case of MPDs that include a rezone, tThe 
county council shall approve, approve with modifications, or deny an MPD. The county council 
action shall be in the form of written findings of fact, conclusions of law and in the case of 
approval, conditions of approval. Action shall occur only after a p ublic hearing is held. To approve 
an MPD, the county council will be required to make the findings outlined in section F herein.  
… 
58
CHAPTER 3 DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION PROCEDURE AND APPROVAL PROCESS 
10-3-1: PERMITS REQUIRED: 
No development or development activity may be undertaken within the unincorporated area of the Snyderville 
Basin unless all development permits applicable to the proposed development or subdivision of land are issued in 
accordance with the provisions of this title.  
(Ord. 708, 12-10-2008) 
10-3-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS: 
A. Initiation: An application for development approval or development permit shall be initiated by submitting 
the appropriate application to the community development director (hereinafter referred to as "CDD").  
B. Review and Recommendation of CDD or Designated Planning Staff Member:  
1. The CDD or designated planning staff member shall review the application for sufficiency. If the CDD or 
designated planning staff member determines that the application does not contain information 
sufficient to determine the appropriate approval procedur e or compliance with this title, the CDD or 
designated planning staff member shall serve a written notice on the applicant specifying the 
deficiencies of the application. The CDD or designated planning staff member shall take no further 
action on the application unless the deficiencies are remedied. An application for development 
approval shall be deemed insufficient if any relevant information is not provided, if the application 
form is not signed by the applicant or authorized agent, required fees are n ot paid, or if other 
information, as may be specified by the CDD or designated planning staff member and which is 
necessary to adequately review the application, is not supplied in a timely fashion. If adequate 
information is not submitted within thirty (30) days of CDD or designated planning staff member 
notification, all application materials will be returned to the applicant.  
2. A determination of sufficiency shall not constitute a determination of compliance with the substantive 
requirements of this title, nor shall it indicate that the information submitted by the applicant is 
accurate or has been verified. Additional information may be required at a later date through the 
approval process.  
3. All development approvals shall be conditioned so that no building permit shall be issued on the 
subject property until all outstanding and current property taxes have been paid to date of approval.  
4. The director is delegated authority necessary to make administrative interpretations of this title and to 
provide such guidance as is necessary to applicants for development approval consistent with and in 
furtherance of chapter 1, "Program for Resort and Mountain Development", of this title.  
C. Legislative Actions: The director or county council may, in their discretion, combine the processing and 
hearing of development permits, procedures for legislative action, or requests for conditional use permit, or 
low impact permit.  
D. Project Closure Due to Inaction: Recognizing the length of the planning review process will vary with the size 
and complexity of each proposal, applicants must move their applications either to approval or denial in a 
reasonably expeditious manner. The county may formally close applications which remain inactive for nine 
(9) months or longer due to acts or omissions of the applicant.  
1. When the CDD or designated planning staff member determines an application inactive, he/she may 
close the files with respect to the application. No application may be closed on the basis of inaction 
without giving twenty-one (21) calendar days' certified written notice to the applicant. Such a notice 
59
 
 
must state the intent of the CDD or designated planning staff member to have the project closed 
because of inaction and what the applicant must submit in order to maintain an active file status.  
2. An application shall be deemed inactive and subject to closure on the basis of inactivity if, through the 
act or omission of the applicant and not the county, one (1) of the following occurs:  
a. More than nine (9) months have passed since the last meeting of staff and the applicant.  
b. More than nine (9) months have passed since a request for additional information was made by 
staff, which request has not been complied with or reasons for noncompliance are not stated or 
indicated by the applicant. (Ord. 730, 12-2-2009)  
c. The applicant is more than thirty (30) days in default of the payment of any fee assessed by 
ordinance.  
d. The applicant has stated intent to abandon the project. (Ord. 708, 12 -10-2008)  
Delays caused entirely by internal delays of the staff, planning commission, county council or board of 
adjustment shall not be a cause for file closure. (Ord. 730, 12-2-2009)  
3. An applicant may appeal the community development director's denial of an application for inaction to 
the county council in the same manner as any other appeal. The role of the county council is to 
determine if the director correctly applied subsection B of this section. The county council may 
reinstate subject to payment of full or partial submission fees, reinstate subject to specific ordinance 
changes, or deny reinstatement. If reinstatement is denied, the application is considered formally 
denied. If the applicant desires to proceed with the project, the applicant must submit a new 
application and pay new submission fees, and the new application shall be subject to all ordinances 
then in effect.  
E. Relationship to Legislative Approvals: Legislative approvals, including zoning map amendments, may rely on 
conceptual development plans. Submittal requirements for subdivision, site plan, and other development 
permits shall not be required until such applications are submitted in accordance with this chapter. The 
burden is on the applicant to demonstrate feasibility of compliance.  
 
60
10-7-4: AMENDMENT TO THE ZONING MAP: 
A. Authority: The county council may from time to time amend, supplement, or repeal a zone district 
designated in the Snyderville Basin. No change which affects a portion of all the real property by a change in 
zoning classification shall be valid unless approved by the county council pursuant to the provisions set forth 
herein.  
B. Initiation of Amendments: Any change of zone district may be initiated on motion by the county council, 
upon the request of the commission, upon the request of the county manager, or upon the request of an 
individual having deed title to real property within the area to be rezoned.  
C. Amendment Procedures:  
1. If the applicant is a private landowner:  
a. An application for an amendment or change to a zone district shall be submitted to the CDD or 
designated planning staff member. An application for an amendment to a zone district will be 
considered only when such application is submitted simultaneously with a Concept Development 
Plan, as described herein, considered simultaneously with an applicable development proposal, 
as described in chapter 3 of this title, for the entire parcel to be rezoned, unless otherwise 
waived by the County Council. The county council may permit the rezoning of the property only 
after it has determined that said rezoning is consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of 
the general plan, the land use plan maps, all other criteria and considerations described in this 
title, and said action is necessary to promote the public health, safety and welfare of the 
residents of the Snyderville Basin.  
b. The application must be authorized by each owner of the real property that is located within the 
area to be rezoned or a duly authorized representative of each owner.  
c. For any rezone request involving a specific development proposal, the applicant shall submit a 
Concept Development Plan. The Concept Development Plan shall include sufficient information, 
in graphic and written form, to evaluate the proposed development, including but not limited to:  
(1) General land use layout and development pattern; 
(2) Proposed density, including total units and /or square footage; 
(3) Lot configuration, block layout, or building envelopes, as applicable;  
(4) Circulation systems, including vehicular, pedestrian, and emergency access;  
(5) Open space framework, trails, and common areas; 
(6) General infrastructure approach, including water, sewer, stormwater, and utilities; and  
(7) Relationship to adjacent properties and uses. 
 
d. The Concept Development Plan is intended to provide sufficient information for the County to 
evaluate the proposed rezone, including consistency with the General Plan and the development 
framework identified in subsection (c) of this section. Fully engineered construction drawings, 
subdivision improvement plans, and final site plan materials shall not be required at the rezone 
stage. 
Approval of a rezone shall not constitute approval of a subdivision, site plan, or construction 
drawings. Detailed engineering plans, subdivision improvement plans, and final site plan 
materials required under Chapters 3 and 4 shall be submitted and review ed during subsequent 
development approval processes. 
Additional information may be required only where necessary to clarify the development 
framework identified in subsection (c). 
61
e.  Approval of an amendment to the zone district shall not be granted until both the commission 
and county council have reviewed the Concept Development Plan specific development proposal 
and determined:  
(1) The amendment complies with the goals, objectives and policies of the general plan, the 
neighborhood planning area plan, and the land use plan maps;  
(2) The amendment is compatible with adjacent land uses and will not be overly burdensome 
on the local community;  
(3) The Concept Development Plan provides sufficient information to evaluate the proposed 
development framework, including density, land use configuration, circulation, open space, 
and general infrastructure approach associated with the proposed rezone; ; The specific 
development plan is in compliance with all applicable standards and criteria for approval as 
described in chapters 3 and 4 of this title; and  
(4) The amendment does not adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.  
f. Effect of Approval and Binding Elements: 
(1) Approval of a rezone involving a Concept Development Plan shall be conditioned upon 
substantial compliance with the approved Concept Development Plan.  
(2) The following elements shall be considered binding: 
(A) Maximum density, including total number of units or square footage; 
(B) General land use configuration and development pattern; 
(C) Primary circulation framework; and 
(D) Open space system and general distribution of open space. 
(3) Subsequent applications for Subdivision, Site Plan, or other development approvals shall be 
substantially consistent with the approved Concept Development Plan unless a rezone 
amendment or major amendment is approved by the County.  For purposes of this section, 
“substantially consistent” means that the proposed development does not materially alter 
the binding elements identified in subsection f(2). 
(4) Any proposed modification that results in an increase in density or materially alters the 
approved development pattern shall require a new rezone or major amendment.  
(5) The maximum density permitted by the rezone shall not exceed the density illustrated in 
the approved Concept Development Plan. 
g. Development Agreement: 
(1)  As a condition of rezone approval, the County may require execution of a Development 
Agreement incorporating the Concept Development Plan.  
  (2) The Development Agreement shall: 
(A) Incorporate the approved Concept Development Plan as an exhibit;  
(B) Establish specific development parameters including density, land uses, and 
phasing;  
(C) Define obligations related to infrastructure, public improvements, and 
mitigation measures; and 
(D) Provide mechanisms for enforcement of the approved development 
framework. 
(3)  The Development Agreement shall run with the land and be binding on successors.  
62
2. When the amendment is proposed by the county council, county manager, or commission:  
a. The commission shall review the proposed amendment. The commission must find that the 
proposed amendment is consistent with the requirements in this title. Prior to making a 
recommendation, the commission shall hold a public hearing regarding the proposed  
amendment.  
b. The commission's recommendation shall be delivered to the county council. The county council 
shall hold a public hearing regarding the proposed amendment. Following the public hearing, the 
county council shall either approve, approve with modifications or  deny the amendment. In 
order to approve the amendment, the county council must find that the proposed amendment is 
consistent with the requirements in subsection C1c-C1g of this section.  
D. Authorized: All amendments to the text of this title and to the zone district shall be authorized by ordinance, 
in the manner prescribed by state law.  
 
63
10-11-1: - TERMS DEFINED: 
… 
CONCEPT DEVELOPMENT PLAN: A plan, in graphic and written form, that illustrates the proposed development 
framework for rezone approval and shall establish the general parameters that subsequent applications must 
follow. The Concept Development Plan shall include sufficient information to evaluate the proposed land use 
pattern, density, circulation systems, open space framework, and general infrastructure approach.  
A Concept Development Plan is intended to provide a level of detail greater than a sketch plan but less than a 
preliminary subdivision, site plan, or construction drawings, and shall not require fully engineered plans. 
64
MINUTES
SUMMIT COUNTY
Snyderville Basin Planning Commission Meeting
SHELDON RICHINS BUILDING
1885 WEST UTE BOULEVARD, PARK CITY, UT, 84098
TUESDAY, MAY 26, 2026
Meeting also conducted via Zoom.
DRAFT
Tyann Mooney
Spencer Young
Heather Peteroy
Eric Sagerman
Peter Van Stee
Teague Cowley
Peter Barnes
Lynda Viti
Ray Milliner
Amanda Curtis
Amy Price
Brian Craven
Welcome/Attendance
Regular Session (6:01 P.M.)
1) Public comments for items not on the agenda or pending
applications. (6:01 P.M.)
Commission Vice Chair Young opened the meeting for public comment
at 6:01 p.m.
No one came forward to speak.
Commission Vice Chair Young closed the meeting for public comment at
6:01 p.m.
2) Public Hearing and action regarding a Plat Amendment to adjust
the platted building area located at 6890 Canyon Drive Ct, Park
City, Utah; Parcel PB-PR-15. Applicant: Natalie Prystash. Owner:
Natalie Prystash and Oleh Kosyy. Administrative Process. Project #
26-047. Amanda Curtis, County Planner. (6:02 P.M.)
65
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: 26-047 Staff Report.pdf
Attachment: Canyon Drive Ct Presentation
Amanda Curtis, Planner, introduced a plat amendment for a
development activity envelope on lot 15, Parcel PB-PR-15 located at
6890 Canyon Drive Court within the Pineridge Subdivision. Approval of
the plat amendment was recommended. (6:02 P.M.)
Commissioners did not have any brief clarifying questions. (6:06 P.M.)
Commissioner Vice Chair Young opened the meeting for public hearing
at 6:07 p.m.
No one came forward to speak.
Commission Vice Chair Young closed the meeting for public hearing at
6:07 p.m.
Commissioner Peteroy asked a procedural question regarding grade of
these types of amendments. (6:07 P.M.)
Heather Peteroy made a motion to approve the plat amendment to
adjust the platted building area at 6890 Canyon Drive Court, Park
City, Utah, pursuant to the findings of fact, conclusions of law and
conditions of approval found in the staff report. Eric Sagerman
seconded, and all voted in favor, (6-0). Absent: Matthew Nagie.
3) Public Hearing and action recommendation to the County Council
for amendments to the Snyderville Basin Development Code
Section 10-3-17: Parcel Boundary Adjustments for Parcels outside
a Subdivision. Legislative Process. Project #26-073. Ray Milliner,
Principal Planner. (6:10 P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: May 26 Basin PC Report.pdf
Ray Milliner, Principal Planner, presented amendments to the
Snyderville Basin Development Code, Section 10-3-17: Parcel
Boundary Adjustments for Parcels outside a Subdivision. (6:10 P.M.)
Commissioner members asked brief clarifying questions to which
Principal Planner Milliner and Community Development Director Peter
Barnes responded. (6:14 P.M.)
Commission Vice Chair Young opened the meeting for public hearing at
6:21 p.m.
No one came forward to speak.
Commission Vice Chair Young closed the meeting for public hearing at
6:21 p.m.
Tyann Mooney made a motion to send a positive recommendation
to the County Council for amendments to 10-3-17 of the County
66
Code based on the findings of fact and conclusions of law. Eric
Sagerman seconded, and all voted in favor, (6-0). Absent: Matthew
Nagie.
Eric Sagerman made a motion to adjourn. Peter Van Stee seconded.
4) Approval of Minutes: April 14, 2026, and May 12, 2026. (6:22 P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Draft SBPC Minutes 04.14.26.pdf
Attachment: Draft SBPC Minutes 05.12.26.pdf
Civil Deputy Attorney Lynda Viti requested Commissioner Peteroy make
a motion to amend a motion she made during the April 14, 2026,
meeting regarding the Silver Creek Estates Unit 1 Block 9 Lot A
Amended Plat Amendment, wherein Commissioner Peteroy incorrectly
identified the lot. (6:22 P.M.)
Heather Peteroy made a motion to correct her motion from the
April 14, 2026, meeting from Silver Creek Estates Unit 1 Block 9 Lot
1 to Silver Creek Estates Unit 1 Block 9 Lot A. Eric Sagerman
seconded, and all voted in favor, (6-0). Absent: Matthew Nagie.
Tyann Mooney made a motion to approve the amended minutes
from April 14, 2026. Eric Sagerman seconded, and all voted in
favor, (6-0). Absent: Matthew Nagie.
Eric Sagerman made a motion to approve the minutes dated May
12, 2026. Peter Van Stee seconded, and all voted in favor, (6-
0). Absent: Matthew Nagie.
Commission Items (6:25 P.M.)
Commissioner Sagerman requested a General Plan review schedule. Principal
Planner Milliner responded to his concern. Commissioner Young asked a
follow-up question regarding the General Plan. (6:26 PM)
Commissioner Peteroy asked for information regarding the pending
commission retreat. Community Development Director, Peter Barnes,
responded to her query. (6:29 P.M.)
Commissioner Mooney asked if subcommittees could be addressed. Director
Barnes replied. (6:40 P.M.)
Director Items (6:42 P.M.)
Community Development Director Barnes provided a preview of agenda items
for the upcoming June meetings (6:42 P.M.)
Adjournment (6:45 P.M.)
67
Eric Sagerman made a motion to adjourn. Teague Cowley seconded, and
all voted in favor, (6-0). Absent: Matthew Nagie.
Meeting minutes and recordings appear at summitcountyutah.gov/meetings. When in
the electronic version of the minutes, clicking on the hyperlinked times takes you to
that spot in the meeting recording.
68