1.
Public comments for items not on the agenda or pending applications.
2.
Public Hearing and possible recommendation to the County Council regarding
amendments to Section 10-8-17, Accessory Buildings, Chapter 10-2-10 Use Table;
and Chapter 10-11, Definitions of the Snyderville Basin Development Code.
Legislative Process.
Ray Milliner, Principal Planner.
3.
Discussion and Possible Action for a proposed Rezone and Master Planned
Development for the Junction Commons, a 19-building mixed use redevelopment
project at Junction Commons (formerly Outlets Park City), located at 6699 N
Landmark Dr, Kimball Junction, Summit County, UT; Parcel FSE-1; Applicant: Elliott
Workgroup representing SRE Ontario LLC; Legislative Process. Project #24-087.
Amir Caus, AICP, Senior Planner.
4.
Approval of Minutes: February 10, 2026.
AGENDA 
SNYDERVILLE BASIN PLANNING COMMISSION 
Tuesday, February 24, 2026
NOTICE is hereby given that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission will meet
electronically, via Zoom, and at the anchor location of Richins Auditorium
1885 W. Ute Blvd., Park City, UT 84098
(All times listed are general in nature, and are subject to change by the Board Chair)
 
You may attend in person or
 
Join Zoom webinar:
https://summitcountyut.zoom.us/j/98189226475  
OR
To listen by phone only: Dial 1-669-900-9128 or 1-253-215-8782, Webinar ID: 981 8922 6475 
 
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
 
 
February 24, 2026 Staff Report Basin.pdf
 
Junction Commons Master Planned Development Staff Report - February 24, 2026 Possible
Action.pdf
 
Draft SBPC Minutes 02.10.26.pdf
Commission Items
Director Items
Adjourn
To view staff reports available at the end of the Friday before the meeting please visit
www.summitcounty.org.
1
 
Individuals needing special accommodations pursuant to the Americans with Disabilities Act regarding this
meeting may contact Vicki Geary, Summit County Community Development Department at (435)336-3123.
2
 Community Development Department 
P.O. Box 128 
60 North Main Street 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
summitcounty.org 
 
  
 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
To:   Snyderville Basin Planning Commission   
From:   Ray Milliner, County Planner 
Date of Meeting: December 9, 2025 
Type of Item: Code Amendment, Accessory Buildings/Structures 
Process:  Work Session – Legislative Review 
File #:  
   
 
PROPOSAL 
The proposed amendments to the Development Code would correct unintended 
issues/problems and simplify the rules for Accessory Buildings in the Snyderville Basin.  
 
BACKGROUND 
On September 9, 2021, the Summit County Council adopted comprehensive amendments 
to the accessory building regulations in the Development Code. The amendments created 
regulations limiting the size and number of accessory buildings that a property owner 
could have on a lot.  
 
Highlights included: 
 
• Creation of Minor Accessory Buildings 
o Allowed in all zones 
o Size of building = 75% of principal building footprint up to 2,000 
square feet (2,667 square foot principal building = 2,000 square foot 
footprint of the Minor Accessory Building).  
o Secondary structure allowed up to 400 square feet footprint (this 
structure would be for a garden shed or smaller storage shed). 
o Combined Minor Accessory Building, Secondary structure cannot 
exceed 90% of principal structure footprint 2,667 square foot 
principal building = 2,000 square foot Minor Accessory Building + 400 
square foot secondary structure).  
o Maximum height = 26'  
• Creation of Major Accessory Buildings  
o Conditional Use Permit required in all residential zones.  
o Lots smaller than one acre not eligible. 
o Maximum size depends on size of the lot, with max size allowed 12,500 
square-foot footprint.  
3
2 
 
o Only one allowed per lot or parcel 
o Maximum height = 26'  
 
Since adoption of the current accessory building regulations, staff has identified several 
unintended consequences. The proposed amendments are intended to address these 
issues while maintaining the original intent of the ordinance.  
 
Issue #1 – Numerical Limits on Accessory Buildings 
 
The current regulations limit accessory buildings to one (1) Major, one (1) Minor, and up to 
400 square feet of smaller accessory structures. In practice, this numerical cap has 
created challenges for property owners. In some cases, applicants must remove an 
existing accessory building in order to construct a new one, even when the overall building 
area would remain compatible with the lot and surrounding development. 
 
The proposed amendment replaces the numerical limits with a lot coverage standard. 
Under the revised language, the total combined footprint of all accessory buildings would 
be limited to ten percent (10%) of the lot area, up to a maximum of 14,500 square feet. This 
approach provides greater flexibility while maintaining appropriate scale and intensity.  
 
Issue #2 – Major/Minor Classification 
 
The current definition of a Major Accessory Building requires a minimum footprint of 2,000 
square feet. Because only one Minor Accessory Building is permitted per lot, a property 
owner with a 1,500 -square-foot accessory building cannot construct a second building of 
similar size. Instead, the only option is to increase the size of the proposed structure to at 
least 2,000 square feet and classify it as a Major Accessory Building.  
 
To address this unintended incentive, staff proposes eliminating the Major/Minor 
distinction. Instead, any accessory building with a footprint greater than 2,000 square feet 
would require review through a Conditional Use Permit (CUP). This allows flexibility in 
building size while ensuring that larger accessory structures continue to receive Planning 
Commission and public review. 
 
Issue #3 – Lack of Footprint Definition 
 
The Development Code does not currently define “Building Footprint.” Historically, 
footprints have been calculated based on the cement foundation perimeter. However, 
accessory buildings often include cantilevered elements supported by posts rather than 
foundations, which are not currently counted toward the footprint. This can significantly 
affect the perceived mass and scale of a structure. 
 
 
4
3 
 
To provide clarity and consistency, staff proposes adopting the following definition:  
 
“BUILDING FOOTPRINT . The total area of the plan view projected to grade, of a 
Building or structure, measured from the outside edge of all exterior walls and 
supporting columns. Cantilevered portions of roofs, up to a maximum projection of 
36 inches from the wall or supporting beamline are not included. Uncovered; 
exterior stairs, ramps, patios, and decks, less than 30 inches above grade are not 
included.” 
 
Issue #4 – Circumvention Through Attachment or Minimal Separation 
 
Staff have also identified instances where property owners attach new structures to the 
Principal Building or construct accessory buildings directly adjacent to one another to 
avoid accessory building limitations. These practices can create larger building masses 
than intended and undermine the purpose of the regulations. 
 
The proposed amendments address this issue by clearly defining what constitutes an 
attached structure and by establishing a minimum five (5) foot separation requirement 
between all buildings on a lot. 
 
SUMMARY 
The proposed accessory Building amendments do the following:  
 
• Require a CUP for any accessory building with a footprint of 2,000 square 
feet or larger. 
• Prohibit construction of an accessory building before the principal building 
or use exists. 
• Limits total footprint of Accessory Buildings to 10% of the lot area (max of 
14,000 square feet).  
• Gives Planning Commission ability to modify setbacks during CUP process.  
• Maintains max height of 26 feet rule.  
• Requires detached accessory structures to be at least 5 feet apart.  
• Defines when an accessory structure is considered “attached” 
• Prohibits steel shipping containers. 
• Creates definitions and modifies the Use table.  
 
ANALYSIS 
Criteria 1: The amendment shall be consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of 
the general plan. COMPLIES 
 
Analysis: Chapter 2 of the Snyderville Basin General Plan promotes sustainable 
land use planning principles that preserve neighborhood character, prevent sprawl, 
5
4 
 
and provide predictable and clear development standards. The proposed 
amendments advance these goals by replacing numerical accessory building limits 
with a clear lot coverage standard, defining building footprint, and clarifying 
attachment and separation requirements. These revisions improve regulatory 
predictability while ensuring accessory buildings remain subordinate in scale and 
compatible with surrounding development. The amendments are therefore 
consistent with the General Plan’s emphasis on clear regulations and quality-built 
environments. 
 
Criteria 2: The amendment shall not permit the use of land that is not consistent with the 
uses of properties nearby. COMPLIES 
 
Analysis: The proposed amendment does not introduce new land uses. Accessory 
buildings will continue to be incidental to permitted principal uses. The amendment 
modifies dimensional and review standards but does not expand allowable uses. As 
such, surrounding land use patterns remain unchanged and compatible. 
 
Criteria 3: The amendment will not permit suitability of the properties affected by the 
proposed amendment for the uses to which they have been restricted. COMPLIES 
 
Analysis: The amendment does not restrict the ability of property owners to utilize 
their land for permitted principal uses. Instead, it clarifies and refines standards 
governing accessory structures. The revised lot coverage approach and CUP 
requirement for larger buildings maintain reasonable development opportunities 
while providing clearer standards. Therefore, property suitability is not impaired. 
 
Criteria 4: The amendment will not permit the removal of the then existing restrictions 
which will unduly affect nearby property. COMPLIES 
 
Analysis: The proposed amendment does not remove substantive development 
limitations; rather, it restructures them. While the Major/Minor distinction is 
eliminated, overall building scale is controlled through a ten percent (10%) lot 
coverage cap and a maximum size limitation. In addition, larger accessory buildings 
require Conditional Use Permit review, and setback and separation standards are 
clarified. These measures ensure that impacts to adjacent properties are mitigated 
and that nearby property owners are not unduly affected. 
 
Criteria 5:  The amendment will not grant special favors or circumstances solely for one 
property owner or developer. COMPLIES 
 
Analysis: The proposed amendment applies uniformly to all properties within the 
applicable zoning districts and does not target or benefit any specific property 
6
5 
 
owner or development proposal. The revisions are policy-based and intended to 
resolve code-wide inconsistencies.  
 
Criteria 6: The amendment will promote the public health, safety and welfare better than 
the existing regulations for which the amendment is intended to change. COMPLIES 
 
Analysis: The amendment promotes public welfare by improving clarity, 
predictability, and enforceability within the Development Code. Clearer footprint 
calculations, defined attachment standards, and separation requirements reduce 
ambiguity and potential disputes. The lot coverage cap and CUP requirement for 
larger structures help maintain neighborhood character and mitigate potential 
massing impacts. Collectively, these changes strengthen code administration and 
better protect surrounding properties. 
 
RECOMMENDATION 
Staff recommend that the Snyderville Basin Planning C ommission conduct a public 
hearing, review the proposed language and for ward a positive recommendation to the 
County Council per the findings of fact and conclusions of law written below.  
 
Findings of Fact 
 
1. The Snyderville Basin Development Code currently regulates Accessory Buildings 
through numerical limits, Major and Minor classifications, and dimensional 
standards. 
2. Since adoption of the existing ordinance, staff has identified unintended 
consequences, including: 
a. The requirement to remove existing accessory buildings to construct new 
ones due to numerical caps. 
b. Incentives to increase building size to meet the “Major” classification 
threshold. 
c. Ambiguity in calculating building footprint due to the absence of a formal 
definition. 
d. Circumvention of accessory building limitations through minimal structural 
attachments or lack of separation. 
3. The proposed amendment: 
a. Replaces numerical limits with a maximum combined footprint standard of 
ten percent (10%) of lot area, up to a maximum cap.  
b. Eliminates the Major/Minor classification and instead requires Conditional 
Use Permit review for larger accessory buildings. 
c. Establishes a formal definition of “Building Footprint.”  
d. Clarifies when an accessory structure is considered attached. 
e. Requires a minimum separation between buildings.  
f. Prohibits steel shipping containers except during active construction. 
7
6 
 
4. The proposed amendment does not introduce new land uses and maintains the 
requirement that Accessory Buildings remain subordinate to Principal Uses. 
5. The amendment applies uniformly to all similarly situated properties within the 
applicable zoning districts. 
 
Conclusions of Law 
 
1. The proposed amendment is consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of 
the Snyderville Basin General Plan, including promoting neighborhood character, 
sustainable land use patterns, and predictable regulatory standards. 
2. The amendment does not permit land uses that are inconsistent with the uses of 
surrounding properties, as Accessory Buildings remain subordinate and incidental 
to permitted Principal Uses. 
3. The amendment does not impair the suitability of affected properties for the uses to 
which they are restricted but instead clarifies development standards applicable to 
accessory structures. 
4. The amendment does not remove restrictions in a manner that would unduly affect 
nearby properties, such as building size, lot coverage, setbacks, height, separation, 
and Conditional Use Permit review for larger structures remain in place. 
5. The amendment does not grant special privileges to any individual property owner 
or developer and applies uniformly within the jurisdiction.  
6. The amendment promotes the public health, safety, and welfare by improving 
clarity, enforceability, and compatibility standards within the Development Code. 
 
Exhibits 
Exhibit A.  Proposed Ordinance with Language  
8
7 
 
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH 
ORDINANCE NO. _____ 
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE SNYDERVILLE BASIN  
DEVELOPMENT CODE CHAPTERS  10-8-17: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS , 10-2-10 USE TABLE, 
AND CHAPTER 10-11-1 DEFINITIONS  
  
PREAMBLE 
 
WHEREAS: Section 10-1-1 D of the Snyderville Basin Development Code states that it is 
“the intention of the County is to assure the managed, proper and sensitive development of 
land to protect and enhance these desired qualities and the lifestyle that exists.”; and   
 
WHEREAS: The Stated Goal of Chapter 5 of the Snyderville Basin General Plan is to 
identify natural resources and ensure that all development undertaken is compatible with an in 
harmony with the surrounding mountain environment while maintaining ecological balance and 
protecting the scenic and historic qualities of the basin; and 
 
WHEREAS: The County may adopt new regulations that are more aligned with the goals 
of the Snyderville Basin General Plan, and the County/communities vision for future 
development/redevelopment of Accessory Buildings. 
 
WHEREAS: on September 9, 2021, the Summit County Council adopted amendments to 
the Development Code to regulate the number, size, scale, and mass of accessory buildings in 
the Snyderville Basin Development Code.   
 
 WHEREAS: Since the ordinance was adopted, there have been unintended 
consequences of the ordinance that would require a property owner to build a structure 
larger than what she would otherwise build.  
 
 WHEREAS: It is necessary to have a proper definition of footprint to effectively 
enforce the adopted regulations.  
WHEREAS: The purpose of the amendments is to correct regulations for Accessory 
Buildings and make them consistent with the Intent of the Code and the Goals of the 
General Plan. 
WHEREAS the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission held a public hearing on 
February 24, 2026; and  
 
WHEREAS the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission recommended adoption of the 
amended sections of the Snyderville Basin Development Code on _____; and 
 
9
8 
 
WHEREAS the Summit County Council held a public hearing on_____; and,  
 NOW, THEREFORE, the County Council of the County of Summit, State of Utah, 
ordains as follows:  
Section 1. SNYDERVILLE BASIN DEVELOPMENT CODE The Snyderville Basin 
Development Code is amended as depicted in Exhibit A.  
 
Section 2. Effective Date.  This Ordinance shall take effect immediately after 
publication. 
 
  Enacted this ___ day of _______, 2026. 
 
 
ATTEST:     SUMMIT COUNTY COUNCIL 
 
 
 
                                            ____   ___________________________                                       
Eve Furse      Tonja Hanson 
Summit County Clerk   Chair 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
__________________________ 
David L. Thomas  
Chief Civil Deputy
 
VOTING OF COUNTY COUNCIL:  
 
Councilmember Mckenna  ________ 
Councilmember Robinson  ________ 
Councilmember Harte    ________ 
Councilmember Armstrong   ________ 
Councilmember Hanson   ________ 
 
10
9 
 
10-8-17: - ACCESSORY BUILDINGS : 
 
A. Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to provide general regulations, applicable to all zoning districts, for 
minor accessory buildings, and major accessory buildings which are customarily incidental and subordinate 
to the principal use and which are located on the same lot as the principal use.  
 
B. Use Limitations: In addition to the applicable use limitations of the district regulations in chapter 10 -2 of 
this title, no minor accessory building, or major accessory building shall be permitted unless it complies with 
the restrictions set forth below:  
 
1. A minor accessory building or major accessory building except as expressly authorized by this 
chapter shall be incidental and subordinate to the principal structure in area and use;  
 
2. A lot or parcel may have one (1) major accessory building and one (1) minor accessory building 
provided they meet the minimum requirements of this section;  
 
3. A lot owner may not combine a major accessory building with a minor accessory building to create 
a larger structure; 
 
4. If there is an existing major or minor accessory building(s) on a lot. That building or buildings shall 
be counted toward the total square footage and number of buildings allowed on the lot;  
 
5. A minor accessory building, or major accessory building shall be under the same ownership or 
control as the principal use or structure;  
 
6. No minor accessory building, or major accessory building shall be established or constructed 
before the principal use is in operation or the principal structure is under construction in accordance 
with these regulations; and  
 
7. No sign, except as expressly authorized by the provisions of chapter 10 -8-2 of this title, shall be 
maintained in connection with an accessory building.  
 
C. Minor Accessory Building: Minor accessory buildings are allowed in all zoning districts provided the 
following criteria are met:  
 
1. Maximum Coverage: The maximum building coverage of a single minor accessory building shall not exceed 
seventy-five percent (75%) of the building footprint of the principal structure on the lot up to a maximum of 
two thousand (2,000) square feet.  
 
2. Secondary Structures: An additional four hundred (400) square feet of building footprint is allowed for 
secondary accessory structures. This is a one -time allowance and cannot be used to make a minor 
accessory structure larger.  
 
3. Combined Coverage: The combined building footprint for all minor accessory buildings and secondary 
structures shall not exceed ninety percent (90%) of the building footprint of the principal structure.  
4. Height: The height of a minor accessory building shall not exceed twenty -six feet (26').  
 
D. Major Accessory Building: 
 
 
 
11
10 
1. Qualifying Provisions: Major accessory buildings are a conditional use in all zones. To qualify for 
conditional use review by the planning commission under section 10 -3-5, "Conditional Use Permit", of this
title, the applicant must demonstrate that the major accessory building complies with the following:
a. Lot Size: A major accessory building shall be located on a lot or parcel one (1) acre or greater in
size.
b. Structure Size: The maximum building footprint of a major accessory building is based on the size
of the lot where the building is proposed.
Lot Size Maximum Building F ootprint 
>1 up to 2 acres 2,500 square feet  
>2 up to 3 acres 5,000 square feet  
>3 up to 4 acres 7,500 square feet  
>4 up to 5 acres 10,000 square feet  
>5 acres 12,500 square feet  
c. Location: A major accessory building may not encroach into any required setback areas on a lot.
In some cases, the planning commission may increase that setback to create an adequate buffer to
adjacent uses.
d. Height: The height of a major accessory building shall not exceed twenty -six feet (26').
e. Number of Structures: Only one (1) major accessory building is allowed on a lot or parcel.
E. Steel Shipping Containers: Steel shipping containers are prohibited.
(Ord. 930, 9-8-2021)
12
 
 
A. Purpose: To establish clear, consistent regulations for Accessory Buildings. 
B. Standards for Accessory Buildings 
1. Conditional Use Permit (CUP): Any single Accessory Building with a Building Footprint 
2,000 sq ft. or greater requires a Conditional Use Permit. 
2. Timing of Construction: An Accessory Building or Structure shall not be constructed or 
placed on a Lot prior to the establishment of a Principal Building or Principal Use. 
Construction of an Accessory Building may begin once a valid Building Permit has been 
issued for the Principal Building. 
3. Maximum Combined Footprint: The total combined Footprint of all Accessory 
Buildings may not exceed ten percent (10%) of the Lot area, up to 14,000 square feet. 
4. Setbacks: Accessory Buildings must meet all required Setbacks for the Zone District in 
which they are located. The Planning Commission may require greater Setbacks to 
protect Adjacent residential Uses or maintain neighborhood character. 
5. Height: Accessory Buildings may not exceed twenty-six feet (26’) in Height. 
6. Separation: Accessory Buildings shall be detached and located a minimum of ﬁve (5) 
feet from any other Building on the same Lot, as measured between the nearest exterior 
walls. A greater separation distance may be required by the adopted Building or Fire 
Code, whichever is more restrictive.  
C. Detachment Standard. A structure that meets all the following criteria shall be considered 
a detached Accessory Building: 
1. The Accessory Building is located on the same Lot as the principal building; and 
2. The Accessory Building is structurally independent from the Principal Building and 
does not share a common foundation, wall, or roof system.  
3. The Accessory Building may be connected to the Principal Building only by an open 
and unenclosed architectural element such as a breezeway, trellis, or awning. Such 
connecting elements shall not contain habitable space.  
4. The Accessory Building shall not include any interior doorway, enclosed hallway, or 
enclosed passage that provides interior access between the Accessory Building and 
the Principal Building.  
5. Any Structure that does not meet the above criteria shall be considered part of the 
Principal Building and shall not qualify as a detached Accessory Building.  
D. Steel Shipping Containers 
Steel Shipping Containers are prohibited, except for use during active construction with a valid 
Building Permit. 
 
 
 13
 
 
Deﬁnitions (T o be added to Chapter 10-11-1): 
ACCESSORY: Refers to a minor use, or structure, or on premises sign which is clearly subordinate 
to a principal use or structure which has been issued a permit under this title.  
ACCESSORY BUILDING, MAJOR: A building or structure with a footprint greater than two thousand 
(2,000) square feet but not exceeding twelve thousand ﬁve hundred (12,500) square feet in size 
which is subordinate to, and the use of which is incidental to that of, the principal building, 
structure or use on the same lot.  
ACCESSORY BUILDING, MINOR: A building or structure with a footprint not greater than two 
thousand (2,000) square feet in size which is subordinate to, and the use of which is incidental to 
that of, the principal building, structure or use on the same lot 
ACCESSORY USE: A Use that is customarily incidental to the Principal Use of the land, Building, or 
Structure; located on the same Lot as the Principal Use; and which does not alter the essential 
character of the Principal Use. An Accessory Use supports the Principal Use, but does not become 
the primary function. 
ACCESSORY BUILDING (OR ACCESSORY STRUCTURE): A Building or Structure which is 
incidental to the Principal Use, is customarily associated with that Principal Use, is under the same 
ownership or control and is located on the same Lot as the Principal Building or Use. An Accessory 
Building or Structure supports or compliments the Principal Use but does not change its character 
or function. 
BUILDING FOOTPRINT. The total area of the plan view projected to grade, of a Building or 
Structure, measured from the outside edge of all exterior walls and supporting columns. 
Cantilevered portions of roofs, up to a maximum projection of 36 inches from the wall or supporting 
beamline are not included. Uncovered; exterior stairs, ramps, patios, and decks, less than 30 
inches above grade are not included. 
 
 
____ = Included in Footprint 
Calculation 
…… = Not included in Footprint 
calculation 
14
 Community Development Department 
P.O. Box 128 
60 North Main Street 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
summitcounty.org 
 
1 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
To:   Snyderville Basin Planning Commission   
From:   Amir Caus, AICP, Senior Planner  
Date of Meeting: November 25, 2025 
Type of Item:  MPD-Rezone (NMU-1), MPD-Conditional Use Permit, MPD-Low Impact  
   Permit, and Development Agreement – Possible Action 
Process:   Legislative and Administrative Review 
File:   24-087 
   
 
Proposal 
 
The applicant is requesting a Master Planned Development (MPD) for the Junction Commons, a 
19-building mixed use redevelopment project located at 6699 N Landmark Dr (Parcel FSE-1), 
Kimball Junction, Summit County, UT.  The applicant is proposing to Rezone Parcel FSE-1 from 
the Town Center Zone to the Neighborhood Mixed-Use 1 (NMU-1) Zone. 
 
The project includes the redevelopment of the upper portion of the property into a residential 
project while the lower portion of the property would be developed with additional infill 
development.  
 
The upper portion of the property is currently developed with ~98,000 sq. ft. of retail space. 
The applicant is proposing to demolish ~82,000 sq. ft. of the existing retail and replace it with a 
10-building residential project which includes 433 units (391 apartments and 42 townhomes) 
and a ~7,200 sq. ft. amenity/clubhouse space within one of the three apartment buildings. One 
of the buildings is proposed to be mixed use and would contain ~7,300 sq. ft. commercial. The 
applicant is also proposing two parking structures in the upper portion of the property. 
 
The lower portion of the property is currently developed with ~230,000 sq. ft. of retail space. 
The applicant is proposing to infill the parking area with a 9-building mixed-use project with 
ground floor commercial (~54,000 sq. ft.) and upper floor residential (77 apartments).  
 
The applications/processes involved in this project include; 
 
• MPD-Rezone to Neighborhood Mixed-Use 1 (NMU-1) Zone 
• MPD-Conditional Use Permit 
• MPD-Low Impact Permit 
• Development Agreement 
• Potential Final Subdivision/Condo Plat (for any for-sale units) 
15
2 
 
Project Description 
 
Project Name: Junction Commons Master Planned Development (MPD) 
Applicant(s):   Elliott Workgroup 
Property Owner(s):   SRE Ontario LLC 
Location:   6699 N Landmark Dr, Kimball Junction, Summit County, UT  
Zone District:   Town Center (TC) 
Parcel Number and Size: FSE-1 (37.32 acres) 
Type of Process:   Legislative (Rezone and Development Agreement) -   
    Administrative (Conditional Use Permit, Low Impact Permit,  
    and Final Subdivision Plat) 
Final Land Use Authority: Summit County Council (Rezone and Development    
    Agreement) and Snyderville Basin Planning Commission   
    (Conditional Use Permit, Low Impact Permit, and Final   
    Subdivision/Condo Plat) 
 
Vicinity Map 
 
 
 
Background 
 
Junction Commons (formerly Outlets Park City, formerly Tanger Outlets, formerly the Factory 
Stores at Park City) was originally built in 1991 with 208,669 sq. ft. through a Class II Permit (a 
previous version of the development code). Based on the 1990 Class II Permit file, it does not 
16
3 
 
appear that there were community benefits, and the review was based on infrastructure and 
design criteria. 
 
In 1999 the Summit County Board of County Commissioners approved a 92,567 sq. ft. addition 
to the center through the Factory Stores Park City Specially Planned Area and Development  
Agreement provisions of the Snyderville Basin Development Code. Based on the 1998 Specially 
Planned Area and Development Agreement file, the community benefits included a partial 
Snyderville Basin Special Recreation District trail improvement (~650 feet), seating areas within 
the site, and preservation of existing parks and open space areas. 
 
In 2014, the Summit County Council approved a SPA designation for a 23,500 sq. ft. retail 
addition through the Tanger Outlets Specially Planned Area and Development Agreement. 
During the 2014 review, the Planning Commission and Summit County Council required public 
benefits as part of the Development Agreement process which resulted in a cumulative 
financial contribution to the Peace House project.  
 
According to the Summit County Assessor’s Office, the total square footage today is 322,804 sq. 
ft. The existing uses include soft-good retail (~70 tenants), management offices, and a small 
restaurant space.  
 
The 1999 Development Agreement has expired, while the 2014 agreement for the 23,500 sq. ft. 
retail addition is still in effect (2024). The 1990 Class II Permit for the original portion of the 
development does not have an underlying Development Agreement. 
 
In June of 2024, the Summit County Community Development Department received an 
application for a rezone to the NMU-1 Zone.  
 
The Planning Commission held a pre-application work session for this project on April 9, 2024. 
During the meeting the applicant went over the history of the property and introduced the 
project. During the meeting the Planning Commission provided consensus that the overall 
project vision was acceptable.  
 
The Planning Commission held pre-application work sessions on April 9, 2024 and August 27, 
2024 where they confirmed that the redevelopment and the overall massing were acceptable 
but that they wanted to confirm that the affordable housing requirements were being met.  
 
The Planning Commission also held a work session on February 11, 2025. Since the Planning 
Commission had three new members that did not have background on the project, Staff and 
the applicant requested to; 
 
• Introduce the project, changes from previous version, and the phasing plan 
• Go over the background for the previous pre-application work sessions 
• Go over the details for the affordable housing per the previous Planning Commission 
request 
• Get any comments and direction from the Planning Commission for future meetings 
and discussion 
17
4 
 
• Confirm the consensus on the overall project vision, massing, and affordable housing 
• Confirm the overall process schedule and review 
o Phase 1 would be to review the Rezone Portion 
o Phase 2 would be to return with the applicable Conditional Use and Low Impact 
Permits 
• Return at a future meeting to discuss traffic and parking for each phase of the project 
 
The Planning Commission held a work session on March 25, 2025 where they discussed the 
traffic, parking, transportation and connectivity. Individual planning commissioners expressed 
concern over still having too much parking versus not enough parking, however the overall 
numbers were explained by the applicant, how they work, and when the parking structure 
would be triggered.  
 
The Planning Commission held a public hearing on September 23, 2025. During the meeting 
there were a total of two public comments, and the public hearing was closed. The Planning 
Commission requested a site visit which was coordinated for October 28, 2025. Following the 
site visit, the Planning Commission reconvened for a brief work session where they provided 
consensus to bring the item back for possible action. Members of the Planning Commission 
expressed concern with the overall increase in traffic at buildout and intersections which may 
fail. Carl Miller, the Summit County Transportation Planning Director was available at the 
September 23, 2025 meeting and provided supporting information regarding how the traffic 
will behave in this neighborhood. Please also reference to the Summit County Transportation 
Planning memo in Exhibit C which touches on several criteria, including traffic, parking, 
connectivity, and transportation. Additionally, the applicant has provided a supplemental letter 
(Exhibit B) to address the Planning Commission’s previous comments. 
 
Staff has included in the Exhibit package the links to each meeting. 
 
Staff originally scheduled this item for the November 25, 2025 Snyderville Basin Planning 
Commission meeting, however the applicant made changes to the water provider which would 
have caused changes to the code analysis and therefore requested that the item be removed 
from the agenda until a revised will-serve letter was provided. The applicant has been working 
with Summit Water Distribution Company to acquire a will-serve letter which is reflected in the 
code analysis below. 
 
Analysis  
 
NEIGHBORHOOD MIXED-USE 1 (NMU-1) ZONE  
 
The maximum density in the NMU-1 shall be determined by the ability of the proposed 
development to meet all required development and performance standards and criteria set 
forth in this title. 
 
Section 10-2-17 of the Code outlines the following requirements for rezoning to the 
Neighborhood Mixed-Use Zone 1.  
18
5 
 
 
Table 1 – NMU-1 Requirements 
NMU-1 Requirement Analysis Finding 
Setbacks 
Exterior Boundary: 
Front: 20’ 
Side: 10’ 
Rear: 10’ 
Interstate 80: 100’ 
Kilby Road: 60’ 
The majority of the development is taking 
place as a redevelopment and existing 
areas are being utilized. As shown in the 
exhibit package, the applicant is meeting 
all applicable setbacks.  
 
The applicant has mentioned possible 
subdivision of land. Prior to any 
subdivision approval, the applicant would 
need to demonstrate that all setback 
requirements are met.  
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
Height 
45’ 
 
Exception: The county council may 
grant a height exception up to a 
maximum of sixty feet (60') to 
accommodate affordable housing 
and/or structured parking through the 
MPD process. 
During previous work sessions, the 
Planning Commission found that the 
conceptual heights and massing were 
acceptable.  
 
The applicant has designed the project 
with building heights up to 60’. Due to 
funding complexities, the applicant is 
proposing a stand-alone affordable 
housing building with two market-rate 
buildings up to 60 feet in height. Other 
mixed-use buildings are proposed and 
would be significantly less than the 60-
foot height limit. 
 
The applicant has provided a 
supplemental letter which includes a 
technical narrative with elevations that 
demonstrate a maximum height of 60 
feet can be achieved (Exhibit B).  
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
Table 2 - NMU-1 Performance Standards 
NMU-1 Performance Standards Analysis Finding 
Open Space: 25% 
 
The applicant is proposing ~27% open 
space. 
COMPLIES  
Mixed Use: A minimum of 3 uses  
 
The applicant is proposing a mix of 
Residential, Retail, and Restaurant uses. 
Office, recreation, and civic uses would also 
be allowed as tenants.  
COMPLIES 
Limitation on Direct Retail Sales: No 
single retail use may exceed 50,000 sq. ft.  
The applicant is not proposing any large-
scale retail uses that would exceed 50,000 
sq. ft. This prohibition is already codified 
and should there be tenant 
improvements which request single retail 
uses over 50,000 sq. ft., Staff would not 
sign off on the building permit.  
COMPLIES 
Single-Story Commercial Building 
Standards: No single-story commercial 
structures greater than one 
thousand (1,000) square feet 
The applicant is not proposing any single-
story commercial structures for the 
redeveloped portion of the project. 
 
COMPLIES 
19
6 
 
Access to Public Transportation The NMU-1 Zone requires that all Master 
Planned Development projects within the 
NMU-1 Zone provide a transit center that 
includes a waiting area, restrooms, 
bicycle lockers, and bike racks. The 
applicant is proposing two bus stops, ride 
share stop, an e-bike station, and several 
bike racks within the project. The 
applicant has not designated waiting 
areas, restrooms, and bicycle lockers. 
The applicant has designed the project to 
incorporate transit stops, bicycle storage, 
e-bike stations, and secure indoor bicycle 
storage in all residential buildings. Public 
restrooms are available throughout the 
project. In order to further support access 
to transit amenities, Summit County 
Transportation Planning Division has 
requested that wayfinding signage be 
provided prior to building permit 
issuance.  
The applicant has worked closely with the 
Summit County Transportation Planning 
Division and High Valley Transit. As 
conditioned, both service providers have 
provided support for the latest iteration 
of the project submittal.  
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
Neighborhood Connectivity 
 
The applicant has provided pedestrian and 
bicycle connectivity within and with the 
surrounding neighborhood areas.  
 
Most pedestrian areas have been 
separated from the motorized traffic while 
the bicycle connection and circulation areas 
are proposed to be shared with motorized 
traffic.  
 
The applicant has worked closely with the 
Summit County Transportation Planning 
Division. The Summit County 
Transportation Planning Division have 
provided support for the latest iteration 
of the connections, transportation 
amenities and wayfinding. 
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
Public Realm 
All Master Planned Developments in the 
NMU-1 zone shall provide a 
project-specific public realm plan for all 
areas to which the public has access 
including but not limited to streets, 
plazas, parking areas, sidewalks, 
pathways, and associated green spaces.  
 
The applicant has included a conceptual 
plan that lays out the buildings, streets, 
plazas, parking areas, sidewalks, pathways, 
and green spaces, including wayfinding.  
 
The applicant has not provided a specific 
design of all utilities, infrastructure, and 
signs. However, utility providers have 
confirmed their willingness to serve the 
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
20
7 
 
The design of all utilities, infrastructure, 
and signs/wayfinding shall be included 
with the plan. 
project with appropriate infrastructure 
upgrades.  
Parking 
Parking greater than or less than three 
and one-half (3.5) off- street parking 
spaces per one thousand (1,000) square 
feet of non-residential area may be 
permitted by the county council as part 
of a Master Planned Development only 
after the applicant submits a parking 
study for comparable uses which 
demonstrates that a higher/lower 
demand can be anticipated. 
 
 
The applicant is requesting an overall 
reduction in parking as allowed in the 
NMU-1 section of the code. Per the 
applicant’s parking study, the applicant is 
requesting to reduce the number of 
parking stalls from the 1,651 base 
requirement to 1,504. The exception is 
based on principles of shared use, 
demand management, and efficient land 
use. Summit County Transportation 
Planning Division has confirmed that the 
“right-sizing” of parking better reflects 
actual demand while maintaining 
neighborhood character and that the 
proposed parking as phased is acceptable. 
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
Architecture and Building Construction 
The project architecture shall foster a 
distinct neighborhood character. Designs 
shall be sensitive to the landscape and 
topography of the site. While new 
structures are not required to mimic 
historic structures or themed designs, 
buildings in the NMU-1 zone should 
reflect local and regional practices 
regarding materials, and roof forms. 
Streetscapes should respond to the 
human, pedestrian scale rather than the 
automobile. Architecture that relies on 
standardized corporate designs, 
mechanical climate control and 
automobile accessibility is strongly 
discouraged. 
The applicant has not provided specific 
architectural design for the proposed 
structures. The applicant is proposing that 
the design criteria be incorporated into the 
Development Agreement and that each 
building is reviewed on a case-by-case 
basis.  
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
Sustainability 
Connectivity 
Energy Efficiency 
On-site energy generation 
Solar orientation, natural light, and 
ventilation 
Thermal and light reduction 
Sustainable materials 
Water conservation 
The applicant is proposing internal and 
external connectivity for multiple modes of 
transportation.  
 
The applicant has provided a Sustainability 
Brief (contained within Exhibit A) with a 
plan of action on how alternative energy 
and sustainable design will be implemented 
into the project. Summit County 
Sustainability Division has confirmed that 
the proposed sustainability measures as 
conditioned are acceptable and have 
forwarded their support.  
 
The applicant has confirmed that they will 
achieve water conservation via utilization 
of drought tolerant and native species, 
xeriscaping, and strategic timing for 
watering. 
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
21
8 
 
Site Topography 
The project shall be designed to 
incorporate existing site topography into 
its design features and to practice 
excavation and site work that minimizes 
import and export of materials. Final 
project grades and elevations may be 
established as part of the development 
application and determined through the 
MPD process. 
The applicant is mostly proposing to 
redevelop existing development areas. The 
tallest buildings will be sunken while the 
smaller buildings will utilize existing 
development areas.  
 
The applicant has provided conceptual 
grading as part of the submittal. The plan 
includes the anticipated cut/fill values. The 
applicant anticipates ~36,000 cubic yards of 
cut and ~2,500 cubic yards of fill. This is a 
net export of ~33,500 cubic yards which. 
 
The property was previously used as a 
quarry prior to the development of 
Factory Stores and later Tanger Outlets 
projects. With the existing topography, 
export of material is unavoidable. The 
applicant has confirmed that they will 
implement a phased and strategic plan for 
material export, including the utilization of 
oversized trucks to reduce trips generated. 
The applicant is utilizing retaining walls 
throughout the site and as designed, the 
project will not result in a visible cuts. The 
design is integrated into the site.   
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
Affordable Housing 
50% requirement 
The applicant is requesting that the County 
Council consider an up to 25% reduction (as 
allowed in Chapter 5) for providing 
affordable housing up front. The affordable 
housing would be provided in phases. The 
County Economic Development and 
Housing Division has raised concern that as 
the project is phased out, the applicant is 
not building affordable units first.  
 
The applicant is proposing ~54,000 
commercial density and 433 units of which 
they are proposing 141.8 Affordable Unit 
Equivalents (205 physical units). The 
County Economic Development and 
Housing Division has confirmed that the 
proposed Affordable Unit Equivalents only 
meets the Development Code 
requirements if the Council issues a 
reduction.  
 
Since the applicant has not put a cap on 
specific uses such as restaurant uses which 
have a significantly higher employee 
generation. Staff request that the 
Development Agreement includes a 
provision that in case commercial uses 
become more intense than outlined that 
the applicant/owner of the property is 
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
22
9 
 
responsible to pay the difference via a fee-
in-lieu.  
 
The applicant has stated that they; “…will 
include verbiage on the Development 
Agreement addressing the provision that 
addresses the intensity of any commercial 
use. Notice that uses like Restaurant and 
Office uses have been included on 
calculations.” 
 
The specificities of Affordable Housing 
will need to be finalized in the 
Development Agreement and the Housing 
Agreement.  
 
Staff request Planning Commission 
discussion on whether the proposed 
method of buildout meets the intent of the 
code and whether the up to 25% reduction 
should be applied. The applicant has 
provided a supplemental letter 
supporting their argument for the 
reduction (Exhibit B). During the October 
28, 2025 discussion, the Planning 
Commission directed Staff to return the 
application for a possible action.  
 
MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENT (MPD) 
 
Section 10-3-11 of the Code outlines the following requirements for Master Planned 
Development. All rezones, projects with more than 10 units of density, and/or commercial uses 
over 10,000 sq. ft. are required to be processed through the Master Planned Development 
(MPD) process. 
 
Table 3 – MPD Requirements 
MPD Requirement Analysis Finding 
Affected Properties 
Property under the ownership of SRE 
Ontario LLC should be planned 
comprehensively. 
All the property owned by the owner is 
included in the proposal.  
 
COMPLIES 
Designing with Topography 
MPDs shall be designed to fit into the 
topography of the site. 
 
See Table 2 – NMU Site Topography 
analysis above.  
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
Designing with Adjacent Uses 
The MPD site plan shall take adjacent 
land uses into consideration. 
Development along the project 
perimeter shall adequately mitigate any 
potential impacts.  
Kimball Junction Neighborhood is the 
most diverse neighborhood with respect 
to uses. The applicant is redeveloping an 
existing single-use destination retail 
center into a diverse mixed-use 
development.  
COMPLIES 
 
 Building Location The applicant is not developing on any 
natural critical lands.  
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
23
10 
 
Buildings shall be located to avoid 
Critical Lands and be oriented to 
encourage solar design principles.  
 
The applicant has confirmed the use of 
alternative energy and proposes to go 
mostly electric for the redevelopment. 
Please refer to the exhibit package for the 
Sustainability Brief. Summit County 
Sustainability Division has confirmed that 
the proposed sustainability measures as 
conditioned are acceptable and have 
forwarded their support. 
 
Access 
Access to be provided from a state 
highway or county road. All 
Developments shall have a secondary 
point of access 
 
The project increases the number of 
access points.  
 
The Park City Fire Service District (PCFD) 
has confirmed that they have no concerns 
with the proposal. 
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
Trails 
Existing trails should be incorporated 
into the project. Trails easements for 
existing trails may be required. 
Construction of new trails may be 
required.  
The applicant is proposing internal and 
external multi-modal trail improvements.  
 
The Summit County Transportation 
Planning Division have provided support 
for the latest iteration of the conceptual 
drawings.  
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
Connectivity 
All MPDs shall provide a means of 
direct, and safe pedestrian and bicycle 
linkages within the project as well as 
connections to adjacent sidewalks, bike 
paths, etc.  
The applicant is proposing internal and 
external multi-modal connectivity 
improvements.  
 
The Summit County Transportation 
Planning Division have provided support 
for the latest iteration of the conceptual 
drawings. 
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
Snow Removal 
Uncovered parking lots shall provide 
snow storage equal to 10% of the 
uncovered parking lot surface.  
 
 
The applicant has provided a snow 
storage plan. Staff, Engineering 
Department, and Transportation Planning 
Divisions have reviewed the revised snow 
storage plan. Snow storage is expected to 
result in a loss of up to 71 parking stalls. 
Staff request that the Development 
Agreement include a more detailed plan 
and a contingency requirement that any 
snow outside of the 71 parking stalls be 
removed off site at the developer’s 
expense within 24 hours.  
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
Waste Disposal/Recycling 
Garbage and recycling container 
locations shall be shown on the site 
plan and are required to be in a fully 
enclosed structure.  
The applicant has provided conceptual 
drawings that identify the locations and 
design of external enclosures. All external 
enclosures are fully enclosed with the 
exception of a 3-foot roof area to allow 
for containers to be removed on pick-up 
days. 
COMPLIES 
 
 
Service and Delivery Access 
Service and delivery areas must be 
shown on the site plan and kept 
separate from pedestrian areas.  
The Summit County Transportation 
Division has confirmed compliance with 
the latest exhibit package provided. 
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
24
11 
 
 Utilities 
Existing and proposed utilities will be 
adequate to support the proposed 
project at normal service levels.  
 
Summit Water Distribution Company has 
issued a conditioned will-serve letter. The 
letter confirms that they currently do not 
have sufficient water to accommodate the 
proposed density and uses, but that they 
could provide the necessary water should 
the applicant purchase additional water 
rights and participate in constructing new 
infrastructure. Staff have included a 
condition of approval which requires that 
the Development Agreement include a 
utility plan that has been approved by all 
utility providers and that the plan includes 
infrastructure improvement agreements.  
 
The applicant is planning to make the 
project mostly electric, including heating 
and cooling. 
 
Rocky Mountain Power have confirmed 
their willingness to serve the project with 
appropriate infrastructure upgrades.  
 
Enbridge Energy have confirmed their 
willingness to serve the project with 
appropriate infrastructure upgrades. 
 
All necessary infrastructure and capacities 
will need to be available prior to issuance 
of any permits. 
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
 
Transportation 
MPDs shall include transportation 
amenities including drop off areas, bike 
racks, bikes lanes, etc.  
The applicant has worked closely with the 
Summit County Transportation Planning 
Division and High Valley Transit. Both 
service providers have provided support 
for the latest iteration of the conceptual 
drawings. 
 
Summit County Transportation Planning 
Division has included the following 
condition; 
 
Applicant shall fund and construct two 
Summit Bike Share stations (12 docks / 8 
bikes each): 
o One near the upper 
roundabout/transit stop 
o One near Landmark 
Dr./Millennium Trail 
connection 
o Stations to meet Summit 
Bike Share design 
standards (access, 
power, site prep) 
 
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
25
12 
 
Stations to be completed in Phase 3 prior 
to new building permits. 
Employee/Affordable Housing  
All MPD applications shall include a 
housing mitigation plan as required by 
Chapter 5 and NMU-1 Zone of the 
Code.  
See Table 2 – NMU Affordable Housing 
analysis above. 
 
Section 10-5-5(C.3) of the Snyderville 
Basin Development Code states; The 
affordable lots and units shall be 
integrated into the development. The land 
use authority shall have the discretion to 
modify this provision if they find that the 
development of affordable housing and 
the overall project will be enhanced by the 
nonintegration of the affordable 
units based upon the design of the project, 
the type and size of the affordable housing 
provided and the character of the 
surrounding neighborhood. 
 
Due to funding complexities, the applicant 
is proposing a stand-alone affordable 
housing building with two market-rate 
apartment buildings. All infill buildings are 
designed as ground floor commercial with 
a single upper floor residential and 
integration will be achieved by default. In 
The applicant has not included any 
townhomes as part of the affordable 
housing density pool. In their 
supplemental letter (Exhibit B), the 
applicant is proposing to deed restrict two 
(2) two townhomes to 120%. The 
remaining 40 townhomes would be 
market-rate. Per the Snyderville Basin 
Development Code, 120% AMI is not 
considered affordable.  
 
Staff request a discussion on whether the 
Planning Commission finds the project 
compliant with this requirement. 
 
Should the Planning Commission find this 
criterion as compliant, Staff request a 
condition of approval to require a detailed 
breakdown of units as part of the 
Development Agreement and Housing 
Agreement. 
REQUEST DISCUSSION  
Open Space/Public Spaces 
All MPDs shall provide at least the 
minimum zone-required open space. In 
the Town Center, Neighborhood Mixed 
Use, and Community Commercial 
zones, open space areas shall include 
public space.  
The NMU-1 Zone has a 25% open space 
requirement. Of the ~37 acres, the 
applicant is proposing ~10 acres of open 
space (~27%).   
 
Section 10-4-16(A) states; All development 
shall provide neighborhood park facilities 
in a manner that is sufficient to meet the 
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
 
26
13 
 
specific recreational demands that will be 
generated by a development. In certain 
instances, cash in lieu of land and facilities 
may be permitted. 
 
The applicant is proposing multiple 
gathering and seating areas throughout 
the development.  
 
Staff are seeking Planning Commission 
discussion on whether the gazebo feature 
should be counted as park facilities.  
Off-Street Parking  
There shall be a maximum of 3.5 spaces 
per 1,000 SF of retail/office space.  
 
Affordable Housing requirements 
include .25 guest parking spaces per 
unit. 
 
 
The applicant is requesting an overall 
reduction in parking as allowed in the NMU-
1 section of the code. Per the applicant’s 
parking study, the applicant is requesting to 
reduce the number of parking stalls from 
the 1,651 base requirement to 1,504. The 
exception is based on principles of shared 
use, demand management, and efficient 
land use. Summit County Transportation 
Planning Division has confirmed that the 
“right-sizing” of parking better reflects 
actual demand while maintaining 
neighborhood character and that the 
proposed parking as phased is acceptable. 
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
 
Chapter 4 Development Standards  
 
The MPD review requires compliance with the Chapter 4 Development Standards in the Code. 
However, many of those standards have been addressed in Tables 1, 2, and 3 above. The 
remaining standards for development are addressed below. 
 
Table 4 – Chapter 4 Development Standards 
Code Requirement Analysis Finding 
  
Environmental Criteria 
*Air Quality 
*Water Quality 
*Watershed Protection 
*Sewage Disposal 
 
Staff has not found instances where the 
air quality would be compromised by the 
operations of the proposed uses.  
 
The Health Department has confirmed 
that they have no objections to the 
proposed rezone. 
 
Summit County Engineering Department 
has confirmed that the conceptual design 
is acceptable and once further plans have 
been submitted that they will be able to 
confirm specific requirements for each 
project.  
 
The Snyderville Basin Water Reclamation 
District has confirmed that they are able 
to provide services for the project. 
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
27
14 
 
 Fire Protection 
 
Park City Fire District has stated that they 
have no concerns with the project. 
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
Water and Water Supply 
Willing to serve letter required prior to 
development permit approval. 
Summit Water Distribution Company has 
issued a conditioned will-serve letter. The 
letter confirms that they currently do not 
have sufficient water to accommodate 
the proposed density and uses, but that 
they could provide the necessary water 
should the applicant purchase additional 
water rights and participate in 
constructing new infrastructure. Staff 
have included a condition of approval 
which requires that the Development 
Agreement include a utility plan that has 
been approved by all utility providers and 
that the plan includes infrastructure 
improvement agreements.  
 
All necessary infrastructure and capacities 
will need to be available prior to issuance 
of any permits. 
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
Mail Delivery 
Locations for mail delivery shall be 
shown on the site plan. 
The applicant has included internal mail 
delivery rooms for the apartment 
buildings. Centralized mail delivery system 
has not been finalized. 
 
After multiple attempts, the local Post 
Master has not replied to requests for 
mail delivery preferences. Staff request a 
condition of approval that all Mail 
Delivery requirements be met per the 
Park City Post Master. 
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED  
ADA Access 
All buildings intended for public use 
shall be accessible, as per the 
requirements of the international 
building code. 
The applicant has only provided 
conceptual drawings, and Staff cannot 
confirm compliance at this time. 
 
The applicant will be required to meet all 
ADA requirements as required by the 
building code. 
TO BE VERIFIED PRIOR 
TO BUILDING PERMIT 
ISSUANCE 
Special Site Design Requirements 
Integration of Development 
Existing Uses 
Privacy 
Building Site Plan 
Number of Single-Family Detached  
Intersecting Streets and Clear Visibility 
Front Side and Rear Yards  
Single-Family Detached Design 
Elements 
Fences and Retaining Walls 
As laid out, the proposed project 
implements multiple elements which 
achieve a complete and functional 
neighborhood.  
 
The proposed redevelopment does not 
limit the viability of existing uses.  
 
Modifications to setbacks are not 
required. The applicant is meeting the 
zone required setbacks and privacy is 
sufficient. 
 
The applicant is not proposing any single-
family detached units.  
 
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
28
15 
 
The Engineering Department has 
confirmed that the conceptual design is 
acceptable.  
 
The applicant is meeting setback 
requirements. 
 
The applicant is not proposing any fences, 
but is proposing a series of retaining 
walls. Staff request a condition of 
approval that a more detailed preliminary 
grading and retaining wall plan be 
provided prior to final approval of the 
required Development Agreement. This 
would show the mass grading and site 
retaining walls and would indicate how 
the proposed grades tie into existing 
grades at the perimeter. This will establish 
relative levels of proposed in relation to 
existing grading and would give more 
detail how much material import and 
export will impact the neighborhood and 
County infrastructure. Detail grading will 
need to be provided with individual 
phasing and project plans. Incorporating 
these conditions and requirements into 
the Development Agreement is 
appropriate as a requirement for 
construction mitigation.  
Architectural Regulations for All 
Structures 
The applicant has provided conceptual 
drawings. 
 
The applicant is not proposing any 
prohibited materials. The applicant has 
accommodated rooftop mechanical 
enclosure/screening areas.  
 
Buildings have been designed with 
pedestrian streetscape. 
 
The applicant has incorporated façade 
variations. 
 
Final compliance will be reviewed on an 
individual building by building basis. 
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
Landscape Regulations The applicant has provided a conceptual 
landscaping plan. The applicant has also 
provided an internal parking landscaping 
calculation to confirm that the landscaping 
is meeting the 15% minimum. 
 
Staff request that a master landscaping 
plan be adopted as part of the 
Development Agreement. 
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
29
16 
 
Lighting Regulations The applicant has not yet provided a 
lighting plan. 
 
Staff request that a master lighting plan 
be adopted as part of the Development 
Agreement. 
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
Snyderville Basin Development Code Section 10-2-18(F) Required Findings of Fact states: The 
county must find enough evidence to support the following conclusions to approve an MPD. In 
some cases, conditions of approval will be attached to the approval to ensure compliance with 
these findings. 
 
1. The MPD is designed to fit well into the natural terrain, minimize excessive site grading and 
protect, preserve, and enhance the level of quality of the surrounding area. 
2. The MPD makes suitable provisions for the protection, preservation, and enhancement of 
watercourses, drainage areas, wooded areas, rough terrain and similar natural features 
and areas. 
3. The MPD takes adjacent land uses into consideration and mitigates potential impacts, 
including but not limited to flooding, erosion, subsidence, sloping of the soil or other 
dangers and nuisances, through careful planning. 
4. The MPD has direct vehicular access from a state highway or county road or suitable 
private road or driveway access meeting all requirements of the county engineer and fire 
marshal. 
5. The MPD has a secondary point of access/emergency access or other mitigation 
satisfactory to the Summit County engineer and fire marshal. 
6. All roads/streets within MPD follow the natural contours of the site wherever possible to 
minimize the amount of grading. 
7. Existing or proposed utility and public services are adequate to support the proposed MPD 
at normal service levels and are designed in a manner to avoid adverse impacts on adjacent 
land uses, public services, and utility resources. 
8. The proposed structures within the MPD are located on the most developable and least 
environmentally sensitive portions of the site. The open areas within the MPD are designed 
so that existing significant vegetation can be maintained to the greatest degree possible. 
9. The MPD includes adequate internal vehicular and pedestrian/equestrian/bicycle 
circulation. 
10. The building/buildings within the development provide good quality internal and external 
environments for their users, promoting health and welfare. 
11. The proposed project integrates existing and incorporates new natural features into a 
multifunctional network that supports quality of place, biodiversity, and water 
management.  
12. The proposed project contributes to Summit County's sustainability goals, 
13. The MPD, as conditioned, complies with all the requirements of chapter 4 of the Snyderville 
Basin development code, 
14. The MPD, as conditioned, is consistent with the general plan. 
15. The MPD has been noticed and public hearing held in accordance with this code. (Ord. 913, 
6-9-2021) 
 
30
17 
 
 
Analysis: Please refer to the detailed NMU-1 and MPD analysis above and General Plan 
analysis below. The Planning Commission held a public hearing on September 23, 2025. 
During the meeting there were a total of two public comments, and the public hearing was 
closed. COMPLIES AS CONDITIONED 
 
General Plan Review 
 
All MPD applications shall be reviewed for consistency with the goals and objectives of the 
Snyderville Basin general plan; however, such review for consistency shall not alone be 
binding.  
 
The Future Land Use Map designates this property as a Mixed Use area. 
 
Chapter 2 (Land Use) of the Snyderville Basin General Plan starts with; 
 
“GOAL: Promote sustainable Land Use Planning Principles that preserve Critical Lands, maintain 
neighborhood character, protect the economic base, prevent sprawl, and provide efficient 
delivery of services. 
 
OBJECTIVE A: Encourage the creation of highly-livable neighborhoods and mixed use areas that 
are connected by open spaces and multi-modal transportation systems. 
 
Policy 2.1: Identify, plan, and create neighborhood master planned specific areas where 
development/redevelopment should occur. These designated areas should be rezoned 
accordingly. 
 
Policy 2.2: Identify specific areas where development should not occur and zone it 
accordingly. 
 
Policy 2.3: Do not approve any new entitlements beyond those permitted by the 
Development Code until such time that existing entitlements are significantly exhausted, 
unless the County legislative body first determines that: 
 
a. a compelling countervailing public interest, specifically identified in the General Plan 
exists and cannot be reasonably satisfied without expanding one or more entitlement(s); 
 
b. such new entitlement(s) do not simply result in an incidental benefit to the public 
interest, but rather such entitlement(s) are intended primarily to promote such 
compelling countervailing public interest; and 
 
c. any new entitlement(s) are consistent with the Neighborhood Planning Area Plans and 
the Snyderville Basin General Plan’s Future Land Use Maps, as amended. 
 
 
 
31
18 
 
Policy 2.4: Work with local, state, and federal agencies to create a multi-modal transportation 
network to support desired development patterns. The Snyderville Basin will be defined by its 
abundant open spaces, world-class resort amenities, and livable neighborhoods and not an 
expansive highway system.” 
 
The proposed project is located in the Kimball Junction Neighborhood of the General Plan.  
The goals, objectives, and policies of the Snyderville Basin General Plan were further expanded 
in the Kimball Junction Neighborhood Plan.  
 
Kimball Junction Neighborhood Plan Fundamental Planning and Community Design 
Principles: 
 
• Create a Mixed-Use Neighborhood states; Mixed-Use neighborhoods are designed 
with people in mind. They are “Places”. They are places where residential, retail, 
service, and civic uses are connected by a network of public spaces. Mixed-Use 
neighborhoods promote efficiencies in people, services, mobility, and infrastructure. 
 
Analysis: Junction Commons was developed as an auto-dependent retail center. The 
applicant is proposing to redevelop the project as a mixed-use development with 
significant portions of retail and commercial. The applicant is proposing internal and 
external multi-modal connectivity improvements. These improvements would result 
with better connectivity outside of the project and would connect the development 
to the rest of the mixed-use neighborhood. COMPLIES AS CONDITIONED 
 
• Create a People Oriented Built Environment states; Establishing a more traditional 
street and building environment will ensure priority is given to the needs of 
pedestrians rather than the movement of vehicles. Traditional streets are not 
dominated by large parking lots, blank building walls, service areas, and utility 
infrastructure. Creating buildings with a continuous active edge, with doors and 
windows opening onto the street, and parking located behind and/or underneath the 
buildings can help encourage comfortable pedestrian activity. The goal should be to 
accommodate vehicles in an environment built for people. 
 
Analysis: By virtue of design, the existing Junction Commons functions as an auto 
destination center. The development is dominated by two large surface parking lot 
areas with a pedestrian perimeter circulation route and retail spaces surrounding 
the parking lots. While the proposed redevelopment is expected to remain as 
primarily an auto destination center, the applicant has implemented design that 
significantly improves multi-modal transportation opportunities and people oriented 
built environment. While the applicant has not provided architectural details, the 
site layout provides clear pedestrian thoroughfare where pedestrians are prioritized 
ahead of vehicular traffic. The introduction of housing on site is expected to activate 
the area for pedestrians and encourage neighborhood uses rather than destination 
uses. COMPLIES AS CONDITIONED 
 
32
19 
 
• Achieve a Seamlessly Connected Neighborhood states; Successful neighborhoods are 
designed to connect people to where they want to go in a simple, safe, comfortable, 
and enjoyable manner. 
 
Analysis: The applicant is proposing to redevelop the site with additional multi-
modal access points. Additionally, the applicant is proposing to expand the 
pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure that connects the project with the 
neighborhood. COMPLIES AS CONDITIONED   
 
• Create a Walkable Neighborhood states; Human beings became bipedal nearly two 
million years ago. We are good walkers. Successful neighborhoods should be 
designed to reflect this skill. Walkable neighborhoods foster a diversity of people, 
uses, and experiences. They are easier to move to, move through, and move 
around. Mixed-Use neighborhoods create a greater sense of community. 
 
Analysis: The existing Junction Commons property was developed as a single-use 
destination retail center, relying predominantly on the use of a private automobile. 
The applicant is proposing additional pedestrian, bicycle, and transit infrastructure.  
COMPLIES AS CONDITIONED 
 
• Develop Centralized Parking Facilities states; Parking lot location is significant in 
influencing transportation habits, since almost all car trips start and end in a parking 
space. When parking is concentrated in an appropriately located facility, it frees 
space for more offices, restaurants, stores, parks, and landscaped areas for 
people to gather. 
 
Analysis: Currently there are two parking areas at Junction Commons. The lower and 
larger parking area includes a landscaped island with a playground that is the only 
available pedestrian route that does not involve walking through the parking lot 
directly. The island also includes an existing Summit County e-bike station. Most 
trips to Junction Commons start and end via the private automobile. The applicant is 
proposing to delete the landscaped island and to implement a pedestrian 
thoroughfare intermingled with mixed use development. The applicant is providing 
multimodal opportunities that previously did not exist at this location. The applicant 
is proposing multiple pedestrian and bicycle routes, multiple bicycle parking areas, 
multiple e-bike parking areas, a dedicated public transit slip lane, and EV 
parking/charging areas. The applicant is also proposing a parking structure that will 
be triggered in certain phases of the buildout. COMPLIES AS CONDITIONED 
 
• Provide a Variety of Housing Choices states; Housing Choice is a key component of a 
strong and healthy community. Kimball Junction housing will meet the diverse needs 
of the region in a variety of forms that responds to our local context. Providing a 
variety of housing options with a wide range of affordability gives people of all social 
and economic backgrounds the opportunity to live in a quality built environment. 
 
33
20 
 
Analysis: The project includes a variety of apartments and townhomes with one, 
two, and three-bedroom units. The applicant has not provided detail as to the 
variety of Annual Median Income (AMI) pricing. The applicant will be required to 
provided further details as part of the Development Agreement process and final 
Housing Agreement. COMPLIES AS CONDITIONED AND FINALIZED IN THE 
DEVELOPMENT AND HOUSING AGREEMENTS  
 
• Make Visual Quality a Top Priority states; How a neighborhood looks affects how 
residents feel about where they live, work, and recreate. Creating a sense of place 
greatly depends on the quality of the buildings and the spaces around them. 
Uncluttered and well-maintained areas that are designed for a variety of experiences 
will help create places that are lively and pleasant to use. 
 
Key themes could vary depending on the project scale, but would typically be 
structured around: 
• Building location, height, scale, and architecture. 
• Public realm, including public spaces and landscaping elements. 
• Ensuring that all details of a project are reviewed and taken into consideration 
upfront, not as an afterthought (e.g. mailbox locations, utility box locations, public 
furniture locations, and dumpster locations). 
• Enhance both legibility and understanding of the neighborhood and minimize 
clutter.  
• Consider how a climate responsive design would influence the physical nature of 
the built environment. 
 
Analysis: Please refer the NMU-1, MPD, and Chapter 4 analysis above. COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
• Create a Sustainable Community states; Sustainable Growth is more than promoting 
environmentally friendly policies and regulations; it is about making positive 
economic, environmental and social progress for this and future generations. 
 
Support Summit County’s transition to a low carbon future in a changing climate, 
encourage the reuse of existing resources, including adaptive reuse of existing 
buildings, and encourage the use of renewable resources. 
 
Promote the vitality of Kimball Junction’s main commercial spaces and protect the 
natural areas around them.  
 
Support a pattern of development which facilitates the use of a variety of sustainable 
modes of transportation.  
 
Locate developments that generate significant movement where the need to travel 
will be minimized and the use of sustainable transportation modes can be 
maximized. 
 
34
21 
 
Contribute to building a strong, responsive and competitive economy, by ensuring 
that the Snyderville Basin General Plan and Development Code support appropriate 
growth and innovation. 
 
Support strong, vibrant and healthy communities, by providing the supply of housing 
required to meet the needs of present and future generations. 
 
Create a high quality built environment, with accessible local services that reflect the 
community’s needs and support its health, social, and cultural well-being. 
 
Analysis: The Summit County Sustainability Division has stated that based on the 
information the applicant has provided, both in their MPD proposal and 
supplemental Sustainability Brief, as well as through speaking with the team, they 
believe there are adequate plans to meet the sustainability-related requirements for 
the Rezone. However, they still recommend that additional details be included in 
any Development Agreements that are generated if the Rezone is 
granted. COMPLIES AS CONDITIONED 
 
• Design for Change states; Development needs to be flexible enough to respond to 
future changes in demography and lifestyle. This means designing for energy and 
resource efficiency, creating flexibility in the uses of property, public spaces and  
service infrastructure, and introducing new approaches to transportation, traffic 
management and parking. 
 
Analysis: The median age of Summit County residents is 41.8 years and is the 
highest in Utah (average age in Utah is 31.3 years).  Most common type of home 
built in Summit County is 4+ bedrooms while 2-person households are the most 
dominant and 1-person households are the fastest growing. The median home sales 
price in Summit County is ~$1.3M.  The proposed redevelopment is implementing a 
variety of centrally located uses and is more aligned with the smaller type of 
households that are dominant in Summit County. The project location, clustered 
mixed-use design and variety of multi-modal opportunities support the future 
changes within Summit County. COMPLIES AS CONDITIONED 
     
• Neighborhood Engagement states; Successful plans must always include a quality 
neighborhood engagement effort. Plans fail when property owners, neighborhood 
residents and other important community stakeholders feel left out of the 
neighborhood planning and design implementation process. 
 
Analysis: Staff is unaware of any efforts being made by the applicant to actively 
engage public outside the required planning process. 
 
Environmental Management Explanation 
 
An MPD application shall include a written explanation of how the project plan addresses the 
following environmental issues: 
35
22 
 
 
• Natural environment  
• Water quality 
• Air Quality 
• Protection of Critical Lands 
• Energy efficiency 
• Building Materials 
• Recycling/Waste Disposal 
• Climate Responsive Design 
• Landscaping 
 
The applicant has submitted an Environmental Management Explanation (Exhibit A). The 
Summit County Sustainability Division have stated the information the applicant has provided is 
satisfactory for the Rezone. However, they still recommend that additional details be included 
in any Development Agreements that are generated if the Rezone is granted. COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
Site Design Narrative 
 
An MPD application shall include a written explanation of how the project plan addresses the 
following design questions: 
 
• Project Neighborhood Connectivity 
 
The applicant has stated that;  
“(1) Vehicles will enter the site from the three existing locations, two along Landmark 
Drive and one from the intersection at Powderwood Drive and Overland Drive.  
(2) The interior of the project will develop new vehicular and pedestrian circulation 
patterns, but not new streets as defined by code. (3) New access points through the 
site are proposed from Powderwood Drive, which services Crestview and 
Powderwood residential properties, and Landmark Drive which provides improved 
access from the North and East of the property. Improved connections to existing 
trails are proposed at all areas where they approach the site, improving access to the 
Millennium Trail, the trail to Walmart, access to AC Hotel, and Canyon Corner 
development. The commuter trails provide improved access to Pinebrook, Bring 
Creek, and Kimball Junction.” 
 
• Availability of Neighborhood Public Facilities 
 
The applicant has stated that; “The site is situated adjacent to retail centers and public 
open space. It is within reasonable distance to public facilities such as libraries, schools, 
and transit centers. A new transit stop and new bike-share facilities are also proposed as 
part of this development. The proposed development also adds a mix and diversity of 
uses that create a neighborhood within the property.” 
 
36
23 
 
 
• Housing Needs 
 
The applicant has stated that; “The proposed project provides multiple levels of housing 
that include townhomes, studio apartments, 1- bedroom units, 2-bedroom units, and 3-
bedroom units. Both the market rate units and affordable housing units will provide 
needed housing for the community.” 
 
• Character 
 
The applicant has stated that; “The intent of the design is to create a place for people 
that helps to convert the haphazard development on the west side of Kimball Junction 
into a community with a center, improving the properties around the project as much as 
the project itself. The proposed design changes the nature of a strip mall surrounding a 
large parking lot into an active retail and mixed-use development through site planning, 
scale, landscape, and placement of uses.” 
 
• Site Design 
 
The applicant has stated that; “The proposed design follows the existing topography, 
provides landscaped areas where a large parking lot currently exists, provides street 
trees that help define the public spaces, provides much desired shade in the summer, 
maintains a significant portion of the existing structures, and minimizes grading 
throughout the site.” 
 
• Complete Street Design 
 
The applicant has stated that; “The project employs multiple vehicular and pedestrian 
pathways that provide safer use of the existing site while creating public spaces.” 
 
• Parking Areas 
 
The applicant has stated that; “One of the primary goals of the project was to break up 
the existing massive parking lots. The proposal removes the upper lot and breaks the 
lower lot into 5 smaller lots. Improvements are also created at the perimeter of the 
property to supplement the use for employees and overflow use. The revisions reduce 
the visibility of the parking lots, reduce the need for significant re-grading, and improve 
stormwater run-off by compartmentalizing and reducing the surface parking area.” 
 
• Public and Private Outdoor Spaces 
 
While the applicant has not commented on Public and Private Outdoor Spaces, these 
spaces are being provided throughout the project.  
 
• External Storage and Service Facilities 
37
24 
 
 
The applicant has stated that; “Areas throughout the site are designated for garbage 
collection and recycling. Mail will be coordinated with the Postmaster. Delivery areas will 
remain in place for existing commercial, while the new commercial has been designed to 
provide drop-off locations at each Pod.” 
 
• Building Design 
 
The applicant has stated that; “The design of the commercial building pods (5-7) has 
been created to help define public space. The design also allows the public areas to open  
 
up to the south, which improves performance during the winter. The basic building 
design for the residential creates space between buildings that improves light and air 
access. It also allows easy access to trails and open space. The building depths support 
quality unit design that is not too deep, such that each unit will have excellent access to 
the exterior. The locations for the residential provide a separation from the primary 
commercial areas while still providing easy access to pedestrians and bicyclists.” 
 
During the October 28, 2025 discussion, the Planning Commission directed Staff to return the 
application for a possible action. COMPLIES AS CONDITIONED 
 
Development Agreement 
  
Per Snyderville Basin Development Code MPD Section 10-2-18(D.4); Once the County Council 
approves a Master Planned Development, the approval shall be put in the form of a 
development agreement reviewed by the County Attorney's Office. 
  
Staff reques that all criteria and conditions contained above be included into the required 
Development Agreement and that the Development Agreement includes further detail, design 
and deadlines for each of the provisions. COMPLIES AS CONDITIONED 
 
REZONE 
 
Per Snyderville Basin Development Code MPD Section 10-7-4; Approval of an amendment to the 
zone district shall not be granted until both the commission and county council have reviewed 
the specific development proposal and determined: 
 
(1) The amendment complies with the goals, objectives and policies of the general plan, the 
neighborhood planning area plan, and the 
land use plan maps; 
 
(2) The amendment is compatible with adjacent land uses and will not be overly burdensome on 
the local community; 
 
(3) The specific development plan is in compliance with all applicable standards and criteria for 
approval as described in chapters 3 and 4 of this title; and 
38
25 
 
 
 
(4) The amendment does not adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare. 
 
Analysis: All rezones, projects with more than 10 units of density, and/or commercial uses over 
10,000 sq. ft. are required to be processed through the MPD process. The NMU-1 and MPD 
review were created to be a more intensive review of projects. Please refer to the code analysis 
in sections above for further details. COMPLIES AS CONDITIONED 
 
Public Notice, Meetings and Comments 
 
The Planning Commission held a public hearing on September 23, 2025. During the meeting 
there were a total of two public comments, and the public hearing was closed.  
 
This item has been scheduled as a possible action by the Planning Commission.  
 
As of the date of this report, no public comment has been received. 
 
Recommendation 
 
Snyderville Basin Development Code Section 10-2-18(D.3) MPD Process states;  
 
b. Planning Commission Review And Public Hearing: Except in the case of MPDs that 
include a rezone, the planning commission shall approve, approve with modifications, or deny 
an MPD. The planning commission action shall be in the form of written findings of fact, 
conclusions of law, and in the case of approval, conditions of approval. Action shall occur only 
after public hearing is held. To approve an MPD, the planning commission will be required to 
make the findings outlined in section F herein. In the case of MPDs that include a rezone, the 
planning commission shall review and forward a recommendation to the county council, 
including findings of fact, conclusions of law and conditions of approval. 
 
c. County Council Review And Public Hearing: In the case of MPDs that include a rezone, 
the county council shall approve, approve with modifications, or deny an MPD. The county 
council action shall be in the form of written findings of fact, conclusions of law and in the case 
of approval, conditions of approval. Action shall occur only after a public hearing is held. To 
approve an MPD, the county council will be required to make the findings outlined in section F 
herein. 
 
Staff recommend that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission review and discuss the 
proposed Junction Commons Master Planned. If the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission is in 
a position to make a positive recommendation, Staff has included below draft Findings of Fact, 
Conclusions of Law and Conditions of Approval for consideration. The Planning Commission 
may add further Conditions of Approval.  
 
 
39
26 
 
 
Alternatively, the Planning Commission has the option to request additional information and/or 
articulate their position to direct Staff to return to a future meeting with a set of Findings of 
Fact and Conclusions of Law to support their alternative recommendation to the Summit 
County Council.  
 
Findings of Fact 
 
1. Outlets Park City, formerly Tanger Outlets and the Factory Stores at Park City, 
(“Outlets”) was originally built in 1991 with 208,669 square feet through the Class II 
Permit process under a previous version of the Snyderville Basin Development Code.  
2. The 1990 Class II Permit review and approval was based on infrastructure and design 
criteria. 
3. The 1990 Class II Permit for the original portion of the development did not include an 
underlying development agreement.  
4. In 1999 the Summit County Board of County Commissioners approved a 92,567 square 
foot addition to the Outlets pursuant to the Factory Stores Park City Specially Planned 
Area and Development Agreement, Ordinance 368 (“1999 DA”).  
5. Community benefits in the 1999 DA included a Snyderville Basin Special Recreation 
District trail improvement, seating areas within the site, and preservation of existing 
parks and open space areas.  
6. The 1999 DA allowed unlimited Restaurant uses. 
7. The 1999 DA expired in October 2004. 
8. In 2014, due to the expiration of the 1999 DA, the Summit County Council approved a 
SPA designation, Ordinance 828, for a 23,500 square foot retail addition through the 
Tanger Outlets Specially Planned Area and Development Agreement (“2014 DA”).  
9. The public benefit required in the 2014 DA was a financial contribution to the Peace 
House project.  
10. The 2014 DA expired in August of 2024. 
11. According to the Summit County Assessor’s Office, the total square footage of the 
Outlets is currently 322,804 square feet.   
12. The applicant is requesting a Master Planned Development (MPD) for the Junction 
Commons, a 19-building mixed use redevelopment project located at 6699 N Landmark 
Dr (Parcel FSE-1), Kimball Junction, Summit County, UT.  The applicant is proposing to 
Rezone Parcel FSE-1 from the Town Center Zone to the Neighborhood Mixed-Use 1 
(NMU-1) Zone. 
13. The project includes the redevelopment of the upper portion of the property into a 
residential project while the lower portion of the property would be developed with 
additional infill development.  
14. The upper portion of the property is currently developed with ~98,000 sq. ft. of retail 
space. The applicant is proposing to demolish ~82,000 sq. ft. of the existing retail and 
replace it with a 10-building residential project which includes 433 units (391 
apartments and 42 townhomes) and a ~7,200 sq. ft. amenity/clubhouse space within 
one of the three apartment buildings. One of the buildings is proposed to be mixed use 
and would contain ~7,300 sq. ft. commercial. The applicant is also proposing two 
parking structures in the upper portion of the property. 
 
40
27 
 
 
15. The lower portion of the property is currently developed with ~230,000 sq. ft. of retail 
space. The applicant is proposing to infill the parking area with a 9-building mixed-use 
project with ground floor commercial (~54,000 sq. ft.) and upper floor residential (77 
apartments).  
16. The Planning Commission held meetings regarding the proposal on April 9, 2024, August 
27, 2024, February 11, 2025, March 25, 2025, and October 28, 2025.   
17. The Snyderville Basin Planning Commission has reviewed the proposal for compliance 
with applicable Development Code standards. 
18. Service providers have reviewed the proposal for compliance with applicable standards. 
 
Conclusions of Law 
 
1. The proposed rezone, as conditioned, meets the applicable standards set forth in the 
Snyderville Basin Development Code, Section 10-2-17: Neighborhood Mixed-Use 1 
(NMU-1) Zone. 
2. The proposed rezone, as conditioned, meets the applicable standards set forth in the 
Snyderville Basin Development Code, Section 10-2-18: Master Planned Developments 
(MPD). 
3. The proposed rezone, as conditioned, meets the applicable standards set forth in the 
Snyderville Basin Development Code, Section 10-7-4: Amendment to the Zoning Map. 
 
Conditions of Approval 
 
1. All necessary land use application approvals must be obtained prior to the Building 
Permit submittal. 
2. The applicant as part of the Development Agreement shall provide detailed drawings 
and design criteria which demonstrate full compliance with the Snyderville Basin 
Development Code. 
3. The applicant as part of the Development Agreement shall provide a detailed 
breakdown of market rate and affordable units. 
4. The applicant as part of the Development Agreement shall include a provision that in 
case commercial uses become more intense than outlined that the applicant/owner of the 
property is responsible to pay the difference via a fee-in-lieu.  
5. The applicant as part of the Development Agreement shall include a utility plan that has 
been approved by all utility providers. This plan shall include infrastructure 
improvement agreements.  
6. Summit County Staff shall review and approve a Construction Mitigation plan prior to 
final approval of the Development Agreement.  
7. The applicant shall provide a detailed grading and retaining wall plan prior to final 
approval of the Development Agreement.  
8. The applicant as part of the Development Agreement shall provide a detailed 
landscaping plan to be adopted as part of the Development Agreement. 
9. The applicant as part of the Development Agreement shall provide a detailed lighting 
plan to be adopted as part of the Development Agreement. 
 
41
28 
 
 
10. The applicant as part of the Development Agreement shall provide a draft Community 
Benefits Plan to the Summit County Council which outlines all community benefits, 
when they are triggered, and by when they must be provided.  
11. The applicant as part of the Development Agreement shall include a more detailed plan 
and a contingency requirement that any snow outside of the 71 parking stalls be 
removed off site at the developer’s expense within 24 hours. 
12. Summit County Transportation Planning Division has included the following condition; 
 
Applicant shall fund and construct two Summit Bike Share stations (12 docks / 8 bikes 
each): 
o One near the upper roundabout/transit stop 
o One near Landmark Dr./Millennium Trail connection 
o Stations to meet Summit Bike Share design standards (access, power, site prep) 
o Stations to be completed in Phase 3 prior to new building permits. 
 
13. All Mail Delivery requirements shall be met per the Park City Post Master. 
14. All service provider requirements shall be met. 
15. All other criteria and conditions contained in this Staff Report shall be included into the 
required Development Agreement. 
 
Attachments 
 
Exhibit A – Applicant Proposal 
Exhibit B – Applicant Supplemental Letter 
Exhibit C – Summit County Transportation Planning Division Memo  
Exhibit D – Links to Previous Meetings Staff Reports and Archive Videos; 
       
     April 9, 2024 Meeting 
     August 27, 2024 Meeting   
     February 11, 2025 Meeting  
     March 25, 2025 Meeting  
     October 28, 2025 Meeting  
42
EXHIBIT A.1
43
EXHIBIT A.2
44
EXHIBIT A.3
45
EXHIBIT A.4
46
EXHIBIT A.5
47
EXHIBIT A.6
48
EXHIBIT A.7
49
EXHIBIT A.8
50
EXHIBIT A.9
51
EXHIBIT A.10
52
EXHIBIT A.11
53
EXHIBIT A.12
54
EXHIBIT A.13
55
EXHIBIT A.14
56
EXHIBIT A.15
57
EXHIBIT A.16
58
EXHIBIT A.17
59
EXHIBIT A.18
60
EXHIBIT A.19
61
EXHIBIT A.20
62
EXHIBIT A.21
63
EXHIBIT A.22
64
EXHIBIT A.23
65
EXHIBIT A.24
66
EXHIBIT A.25
67
EXHIBIT A.26
68
EXHIBIT A.27
69
EXHIBIT A.28
70
EXHIBIT A.29
71
EXHIBIT A.30
72
EXHIBIT A.31
73
EXHIBIT A.32
74
EXHIBIT A.33
75
EXHIBIT A.34
76
EXHIBIT A.35
77
EXHIBIT A.36
78
EXHIBIT A.37
79
EXHIBIT A.38
80
EXHIBIT A.39
81
EXHIBIT A.40
82
EXHIBIT A.41
83
EXHIBIT A.42
84
EXHIBIT A.43
85
EXHIBIT A.44
86
EXHIBIT A.45
87
EXHIBIT A.46
88
EXHIBIT A.47
89
EXHIBIT A.48
90
EXHIBIT A.49
91
EXHIBIT A.50
92
EXHIBIT A.51
93
EXHIBIT A.52
94
EXHIBIT A.53
95
EXHIBIT A.54
96
EXHIBIT A.55
97
EXHIBIT A.56
98
EXHIBIT A.57
99
EXHIBIT A.58
100
EXHIBIT A.59
101
EXHIBIT A.60
102
EXHIBIT A.61
103
EXHIBIT A.62
104
EXHIBIT A.63
105
EXHIBIT A.64
106
EXHIBIT A.65
107
EXHIBIT A.66
108
JUNCTION COMMONS 
Master Planned Development - Summit County, Utah
August 1, 2025
SUSTAINABILITY BRIEF 
EXHIBIT A.67
109
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
The Junction Commons Project represents a transformative redevelopment of 37.3 acres in the 
Kimball Junction area of Summit County, Utah. This Master Planned Development (MPD) with 
Neighborhood Mixed-Use 1 (NMU-1) zoning demonstrates comprehensive sustainability 
through environmental stewardship, social equity, and economic viability. The project converts 
an existing single-use outlet mall and oversized parking areas into a mixed-use, pedestrian-
focused, transit-oriented community that aligns with Summit County's sustainability objectives 
and the Snyderville Basin General Plan.
PROJECT OVERVIEW 
• Location: Kimball Junction, Summit County, Utah
• Total Area: 37.3 acres
• Zoning: NMU-1 (Neighborhood Mixed-Use 1) with MPD overlay
• Development Type: Redevelopment/Mixed-use
• Housing Units: 432 units (market rate and affordable)
• Commercial Space: Reduction from 318,986 SF to 301,360 SF
• Green Space: 10 acres (26.8% of property)
• Pedestrian Plazas: 4.2 acres (11.2% of property)
SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK 
1. ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 
1.1 Site Restoration and Land Use
• Brownﬁeld Redevelopment: Converting existing asphalt parking lots and underutilized 
commercial structures
• Minimal Site Disturbance: Utilizing previously disturbed land to minimize 
environmental impact
• Native Habitat Restoration: Restoring native grasses and vegetation where asphalt 
currently exists
• Biodiversity Enhancement: Landscaping will provide biodiversity where none 
currently exists
1.2 Water Conservation and Quality
• Xeriscaping Implementation: Drought-tolerant and native plant species throughout the 
development
• Smart Irrigation Systems: Time-controlled watering and sensor-based irrigation systems
• Stormwater Management: Upgrading existing stormwater systems and reducing 
impermeable surface area
• Water Quality Protection: Located on existing asphalt, minimizing risk to surrounding 
waterways
• Groundwater Protection: Converting asphalt parking lots reduces groundwater 
contamination risk
EXHIBIT A.68
110
1.3 Air Quality Improvement
• Increased Vegetation: Breaking up existing heat sink of parking lots with plant life
• Transportation Alternatives: Encouraging walking, biking, and public transit over 
single-occupant vehicles
• Mixed-Use Design: Reducing vehicle trips through integrated live-work-play 
environment
• Carbon Footprint Reduction: Higher sustainability standards for new construction
1.4 Energy Efﬁciency and Renewable Energy
• Solar-Ready Infrastructure: All new buildings designed for solar panel installation
• Photovoltaic (PV) Solar Infrastructure: Two parking structures with solar panel 
installation
• Grid-Tied Renewable Energy: Solar installations connected to utility grid
• Passive Solar Design: Building orientation optimized for winter solar gain for outdoor 
gathering spaces
• Natural Gas Provision: Mixed-Use buildings will be supplied with Natural Gas to the 
retail portions to provide efﬁcient options for high temperature water needs and cooking
• Natural Ventilation: Building design incorporating wind-driven ventilation strategies
• Daylighting Optimization: Building depths supporting excellent natural light access
• Energy-Efﬁcient Building Envelope: Detailed R-values and MEP systems meeting 
efﬁciency standards (see “Proposed Sustainable Speciﬁcations”)
1.5 Sustainable Materials and Construction
• Sustainable Building Materials: Consideration of environmental impact in material 
selection as per the “Sustainable Material Selection Framework” for the project
• Waste Minimization: Maintaining signiﬁcant portion of existing structures
• Construction Waste Management: Comprehensive recycling and waste disposal 
agreements (see “Proposed Sustainable Speciﬁcations”)
• Resource Conservation: Minimizing excavation and material import/export (see 
“Proposed Sustainable Speciﬁcations”)
2. SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY 
2.1 Affordable Housing Integration
• Workforce Housing: Affordable housing units integrated throughout the development
• Diverse Housing Types: Studio apartments, 1-bedroom, 2-bedroom, and 3-bedroom 
units
• Simultaneous Development: Affordable housing built with each development phase
• Accessibility Compliance: ADA-compliant units and facilities throughout
2.2 Community Connectivity and Accessibility
• Universal Design: Full ADA compliance including accessible EV charging stations
• Multi-Generational Spaces: Housing and amenities for young families, young adults, 
and elderly
EXHIBIT A.69
111
• Public Realm Enhancement: Converting parking lots into community gathering spaces
• Cultural Preservation: Design respecting mountain resort community character
2.3 Health and Wellness
• Active Transportation: Enhanced pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure
• Trail Connections: New internal trails connecting to Millennium Trail system
• Public Open Space: 26.8% of property dedicated to green space
• Air Quality Improvement: Reduced vehicle dependency improving local air quality
• Community Social Interaction: Plazas, gathering spaces, and amphitheater facilities
3. ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY 
3.1 Transit-Oriented Development
• Enhanced Transit Access: New transit stop with improved amenities
• Reduced Transportation Costs: Mixed-use design reducing need for vehicle ownership
• Summit Bike Share Integration: On-site bike share stations reducing transportation 
expenses
• E-bike Infrastructure: Charging stations throughout the development
3.2 Economic Diversiﬁcation
• Mixed-Use Integration: Commercial, residential, ofﬁce, and restaurant uses
• Live-Work Opportunities: Ground-ﬂoor commercial with residential above
• Local Business Support: Spaces designed for neighborhood-serving retail and services
• Employment Generation: New commercial spaces creating job opportunities
3.3 Infrastructure Efﬁciency
• Parking Optimization: Right-sizing parking supply to reduce overbuilt infrastructure
• Shared Parking Analysis: Efﬁcient use of parking resources between residential and 
commercial uses
• EV Charging: Charging stations provided in each phase including EV ready spaces 
• Utility Coordination: Working with existing utility providers to optimize service 
delivery
• Phased Development: Eight-phase approach allowing for market-responsive 
development
COMPLIANCE WITH SUMMIT COUNTY REQUIREMENTS 
NMU-1 Zone Sustainability Standards (Section 10-2-17 H.10)
Connectivity
• Enhanced access to trails and neighboring properties
• Bike storage and multi-modal transportation options
• Compliance with Snyderville Basin Special Recreation District Trail Design Standards
EXHIBIT A.70
112
Energy Efﬁciency
• Building envelope R-values meeting county standards
• Efﬁcient MEP systems for all new construction
• Energy-efﬁcient design for both buildings and public spaces
On-Site Energy Generation
• Parking structures with grid tied PV Panel connection
• Rooftop space available for future PV panel installation
Solar Orientation, Natural Light, and Ventilation
• Public areas oriented to optimize winter solar performance
• Building spacing improving light and air access
• Unit design maximizing natural light exposure
• Wind-driven ventilation considerations
Thermal and Light Reduction
• Breaking up existing heat sink of asphalt parking lots
• Incorporating vegetation and shade structures
Sustainable Materials
• Sustainable material consideration for buildings and public spaces
• Detailed speciﬁcations provided with Final Site and Building Permits
Water Conservation Landscaping
• Drought-tolerant plant species selection
• Native plant species prioritization
• Xeriscaping implementation
• Time-controlled irrigation systems
• Sensor-based irrigation technology
MPD Environmental Management Requirements (Section 10-2-18 E.12)
Natural Environment
• Native grass restoration around site perimeter
• Increased green space within development area
• Biodiversity enhancement through landscaping
Water Quality
• Development on existing asphalt minimizing waterway impact
• Reduced groundwater contamination risk
• Compliance with state water quality standards
• Water conservation methods integration
EXHIBIT A.71
113
Air Quality
• Increased plant life for air quality improvement
• Alternative transportation encouragement
• Reduced single-occupant vehicle dependency
Energy Efﬁciency
• Energy-efﬁcient building design
• Solar-ready infrastructure
• Detailed energy performance speciﬁcations for each building
Building Materials
• Sustainable material consideration throughout design process as per the “Sustainable 
Material Selection Framework” for the project
• Speciﬁcations provided with building permit applications (see “Proposed Sustainable 
Speciﬁcations”)
Climate Responsive Design
• South-facing public areas for year round performance
• Building spacing for optimal light and air access
• Snow accumulation mitigation strategies
• Natural ventilation optimization
Landscaping
• Native grass utilization requiring less water
• Climate-appropriate tree selection (deciduous and evergreen)
• Drought-tolerant species prioritization
• Advanced irrigation control systems
SUSTAINABILITY METRICS AND TARGETS 
Environmental Targets
• Green Space: 26.8% of total site area (exceeding minimum requirements)
• Impervious Surface Reduction: Converting existing asphalt to green space and 
buildings
• Water Conservation: 30% reduction in landscape water use through xeriscaping
• Energy Performance: Buildings designed to exceed baseline energy code requirements
• Renewable Energy: Solar-ready infrastructure for future 100% renewable energy 
potential
Social Targets
• Affordable Housing: Compliance with Chapter 5 requirements for workforce housing
• Accessibility: 100% ADA compliance across all facilities
EXHIBIT A.72
114
• Transit Access: Direct connection to regional transit system
• Active Transportation: Complete pedestrian and bicycle network throughout site
Economic Targets
• Parking Efﬁciency: Right-sizing parking to eliminate current oversupply
• Transit Ridership: Enhanced transit amenities to increase public transportation use
• Local Employment: New commercial spaces supporting local job creation
• Housing Diversity: Range of unit types and affordability levels
IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY 
Phase 1: Infrastructure and Site Preparation
• Utility coordination and upgrades
• Stormwater system improvements
• Initial landscaping and native restoration
• Transit stop enhancement
Phase 2-8: Incremental Development
• Building construction with sustainability features
• Progressive parking lot conversion to green space
• Trail system development and connections
• Community amenity installation
Monitoring and Evaluation
• Annual sustainability performance reporting
• Water and energy consumption tracking
• Transportation mode split analysis
• Community satisfaction and health indicator monitoring
CONCLUSION 
The Junction Commons Project represents a model of sustainable development that transforms 
an underutilized commercial site into a vibrant, environmentally responsible, and socially 
equitable mixed-use community. Through comprehensive environmental management, social 
inclusion, and economic viability strategies, the project aligns with Summit County's 
sustainability objectives while creating a replicable framework for similar redevelopment 
initiatives.
The project's commitment to environmental stewardship through native landscape restoration, 
energy efﬁciency, renewable energy infrastructure, and water conservation, combined with its 
dedication to social sustainability through affordable housing, accessibility, and community 
EXHIBIT A.73
115
connectivity, positions Junction Commons as a signiﬁcant contribution to Summit County's 
sustainable development goals.
By prioritizing transit-oriented development, active transportation, and mixed-use design, the 
project reduces environmental impact while enhancing quality of life for residents and the 
broader Kimball Junction community. The phased implementation approach ensures 
sustainable growth management while allowing for adaptive responses to market conditions 
and community needs.
EXHIBIT A.74
116
JUNCTION COMMONS 
Master Planned Development - Summit County, Utah
July31, 2025
SUSTAINABLE MATERIAL SELECTION FRAMEWORK 
EXHIBIT A.75
117
Framework Overview 
This comprehensive framework evaluates exterior building materials across four critical 
sustainability dimensions while ensuring compatibility with Park City's modern mountain 
aesthetic and climate requirements.
Evaluation Criteria & Scoring Matrix 
1. Environmental Impact Assessment (25 points) 
Carbon Footprint Analysis
Embodied Carbon (10 points)\
• 9-10 points: <50 kg CO2e/m² (reclaimed wood, recycled metal)
• 7-8 points: 50-150 kg CO2e/m² (FSC wood, natural stone)
• 5-6 points: 150-300 kg CO2e/m² (ﬁber cement, engineered wood, stucco)
• 3-4 points: 300-500 kg CO2e/m² (brick, conventional concrete)
• 1-2 points: >500 kg CO2e/m² (aluminum, steel, vinyl, synthetic stucco)
Material Source & Transportation (8 points)
• 7-8 points: Local materials (<200 miles) or rapidly renewable
• 5-6 points: Regional materials (200-500 miles)
• 3-4 points: National materials (500-1500 miles)
• 1-2 points: International materials (>1500 miles)
End-of-Life Impact (7 points)
• 6-7 points: Fully recyclable or biodegradable
• 4-5 points: Partially recyclable (>50%)
• 2-3 points: Limited recyclability (20-50%)
• 1 point: Non-recyclable or hazardous disposal
2. Durability & Maintenance Requirements (25 points) 
Lifespan Expectancy (12 points)
• 11-12 points: 75+ years (natural stone, quality metal)
• 9-10 points: 50-75 years (ﬁber cement, engineered wood)
• 7-8 points: 30-50 years (quality wood siding, stucco, synthetic stucco)
• 5-6 points: 20-30 years (vinyl, composite)
• 1-4 points: <20 years (poor quality materials)
Maintenance Frequency (8 points)
• 7-8 points: Minimal maintenance (<5 year intervals)
• 5-6 points: Low maintenance (5-10 year intervals)
• 3-4 points: Moderate maintenance (3-5 year intervals)
• 1-2 points: High maintenance (<3 year intervals)
Climate Resilience (5 points)
• 5 points: Excellent performance in freeze-thaw, UV , moisture
• 4 points: Good performance with minor seasonal effects
EXHIBIT A.76
118
• 3 points: Adequate with standard weatherization
• 2 points: Requires enhanced protection systems
• 1 point: Poor climate performance
3. Energy Performance (25 points) 
Thermal Performance (12 points)
• 11-12 points: R-value >20, minimal thermal bridging
• 9-10 points: R-value 15-20, low thermal bridging
• 7-8 points: R-value 10-15, moderate thermal bridging
• 5-6 points: R-value 5-10, some thermal bridging
• 1-4 points: R-value <5, signiﬁcant thermal bridging
Solar Reﬂectance & Heat Island Effect (8 points)
• 7-8 points: Solar reﬂectance >0.6, cool material properties
• 5-6 points: Solar reﬂectance 0.4-0.6
• 3-4 points: Solar reﬂectance 0.2-0.4
• 1-2 points: Solar reﬂectance <0.2, heat absorption
Air Sealing Properties (5 points)
• 5 points: Excellent air barrier properties
• 4 points: Good air sealing with proper installation
• 3 points: Moderate, requires additional air barrier
• 2 points: Poor air sealing properties
• 1 point: Allows signiﬁcant air inﬁltration
4. Modern Mountain Aesthetic Compatibility (25 points) 
Design Versatility (10 points)
• 9-10 points: Excellent color/texture options, design ﬂexibility
• 7-8 points: Good variety, moderate design options
• 5-6 points: Limited but adequate options
• 3-4 points: Few design choices
• 1-2 points: Very limited aesthetic options
Architectural Integration (10 points)
• 9-10 points: Perfect ﬁt for modern mountain style
• 7-8 points: Excellent compatibility
• 5-6 points: Good ﬁt with some adaptation
• 3-4 points: Requires signiﬁcant design accommodation
• 1-2 points: Poor aesthetic ﬁt
Aging Characteristics (5 points)
• 5 points: Ages beautifully, develops attractive patina
• 4 points: Ages well with minimal aesthetic degradation
• 3 points: Neutral aging, maintains appearance
• 2 points: Shows wear but acceptable
• 1 point: Ages poorly, requires frequent refresh
EXHIBIT A.77
119
Material Categories & Recommended Applications 
Primary Structure Materials (Score Range: 80-100) 
Natural Stone Veneer
• Best for: Foundation, accent walls, mixed-use common areas
• Strengths: Durability, local sourcing potential, thermal mass
• Considerations: Higher embodied carbon, installation complexity
Reclaimed/FSC Wood Siding
• Best for: Residential portions, accent features
• Strengths: Carbon sequestration, aesthetic appeal, local availability
• Considerations: Maintenance requirements, ﬁre treatment needs
Cor-Ten Steel Panels
• Best for: Commercial facades, structural accents
• Strengths: Durability, modern aesthetic, self-protecting
• Considerations: Initial cost, detailing requirements
Fiber Cement Siding
• Best for: Large residential facades, cost-conscious areas
• Strengths: Low maintenance, ﬁre resistance, design ﬂexibility
• Considerations: Embodied carbon, transportation distance
Secondary/Accent Materials (Score Range: 65-79) 
Cor-Ten Steel Panels
• Best for: Commercial facades, structural accents
• Strengths: Durability, modern aesthetic, self-protecting
• Considerations: Initial cost, detailing requirements
Engineered Wood Products
• Best for: Residential siding, sofﬁt applications
• Strengths: Consistent quality, modern proﬁles available
• Considerations: Moisture management, end-of-life disposal
•
Supporting Materials (Score Range: 50-64) 
High-Performance Stucco Systems (synthetic stucco)
• Best for: Continuous insulation applications
• Strengths: Seamless appearance, integrated insulation
• Considerations: Climate performance, color retention
Pre-ﬁnished Steel Panels
• Best for: Continuous insulation applications
• Strengths: Durability, modern aesthetic, self-protecting
• Considerations: Initial cost, color retention
EXHIBIT A.78
120
Implementation Guidelines 
Phase 1: Site Analysis 
Conduct detailed assessment of:
• Local material availability and suppliers
• Speciﬁc microclimate conditions
• Existing architectural context
• Municipal design guidelines and restrictions
Phase 2: Material Selection Process 
1. Preliminary Screening: Remove materials scoring <50 points
2. Detailed Analysis: Calculate total lifecycle costs for top performers
3. Design Integration: Test aesthetic combinations and transitions
4. Performance Modeling: Verify energy performance assumptions
Phase 3: Speciﬁcation Development 
• Develop detailed installation speciﬁcations
• Establish quality control protocols
• Create maintenance schedules and protocols
• Document warranty and performance expectations
Performance Monitoring & Optimization 
Success Metrics
• Annual energy consumption targets
• Maintenance cost tracking
• Aesthetic satisfaction surveys
• Environmental impact veriﬁcation
Summit County Speciﬁc Considerations 
Climate Factors
• Extreme temperature variations (-20°F to 90°F)
• High UV exposure at elevation (7,000+ feet)
• Signiﬁcant freeze-thaw cycles
• Heavy snow loads and ice formation
Regulatory Environment
• Consider ﬁre safety guidelines for wildland-urban interface
• Energy code compliance (current and anticipated future)
• Water conservation and runoff management
EXHIBIT A.79
121
Local Resources
• Prioritize Utah and Colorado sourced materials
• Consider partnerships with regional manufacturers
• Evaluate reclaimed material availability from local projects
• Assess workforce expertise for specialized installations
This framework provides a systematic approach to achieving sustainable, durable, and 
aesthetically appropriate exterior material selection while supporting long-term building 
performance and community values.
General Note:
This point system and scoring framework is based on general knowledge of sustainable building practices, 
material properties, and industry standards, but doesn’t reference speciﬁc published frameworks or 
standards.
The framework draws conceptually from several established systems and principles:
• LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) - particularly the Materials and 
Resources credits
• Living Building Challenge materials requirements
• BREEAM (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method) material 
evaluation approaches
• Embodied carbon assessment methodologies from organizations like the Carbon Leadership 
Forum
• Durability and maintenance standards from ASTM and other technical organizations
• Energy performance metrics from building codes and green building standards
However, the speciﬁc point distributions (like the 25-point weighting for each category, or the exact 
ranges for embodied carbon) are a synthesis rather than being pulled from a single authoritative source.
EXHIBIT A.80
122
JUNCTION COMMONS 
Master Planned Development - Summit County, Utah
July 31, 2025
PROPOSED SUSTAINABLE SPECIFICATIONS 
EXHIBIT A.81
123
SECTION 017419 - CONSTRUCTION WASTE MANAGEMENT AND DISPOSAL 
1.GENERAL
1. SECTION REQUIREMENTS
A. Action Submittals:
1. Waste Management Plan: Submit plan within 30 days of date established for 
commencement of the Work.
B. Informational Submittals:
1. Waste Reduction Progress Reports: Submit concurrent with each Application for 
Payment. Include total quantity of waste, total quantity of waste salvaged and 
recycled, and percentage of total waste salvaged and recycled.
2. Records of Donations and Sales: Receipts for salvageable waste donated or sold 
to individuals and organizations. . Indicate whether organization is tax exempt.
3. Recycling and Processing Facility Records: Manifests, weight tickets, receipts, 
and invoices.
4. Landﬁll and Incinerator Disposal Records: Manifests, weight tickets, receipts, 
and invoices.
5. Statement of Refrigerant Recovery: Signed by refrigerant recovery technician 
responsible for recovering refrigerant, stating that all refrigerant that was present 
was recovered and that recovery was performed according to EPA regulations.
C. Refrigerant Recovery Technician Quali ﬁ cations: Certi ﬁ ed by EPA-approved 
certiﬁcation program.
D. Waste Management Conference: Conduct conference at Project site to comply with 
requirements in Section  013000 "Administrative Requirements." Review methods and 
procedures related to waste management.
E. Waste Management Plan: Develop a waste management plan consisting of waste 
identiﬁcation, waste reduction work plan, and cost/revenue analysis. Indicate 
quantities by weight or volume, but use same units of measure throughout waste 
management plan.
1. Salvaged Materials for Reuse: Identify materials that will be salvaged and 
reused.
2. Salvaged Materials for Sale: Identify materials that will be sold to individuals 
and organizations, include list of their names, addresses, and telephone numbers.
3. Salvaged Materials for Donation: Identify materials that will be donated to 
individuals and organizations, include list of their names, addresses, and 
telephone numbers.
4. Recycled Materials: Include list of local receivers and processors and type of 
recycled materials each will accept. Include names, addresses, and telephone 
numbers.
5. Cost/Revenue Analysis: Indicate total cost of waste disposal as if there was no 
waste management plan and net additional cost or net savings resulting from 
implementing waste management plan.
EXHIBIT A.82
124
2. PRODUCTS
1. PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS
A. Achieve end-of-Project rates for salvage/recycling of [50] [75] <Insert number> 
percent by weight of total nonhazardous solid waste generated by the Work.
3. EXECUTION
1. PLAN IMPLEMENTATION
A. General: Implement approved waste management plan. Provide handling, containers, 
storage, signage, transportation, and other items as required to implement waste 
management plan during the entire duration of the Contract.
B. Training: Train workers, subcontractors, and suppliers on proper waste management 
procedures, as appropriate for the Work occurring at Project site.
1. Distribute waste management plan to entities when they ﬁrst begin work on-site. 
Review plan procedures and locations established for salvage, recycling, and 
disposal.
2. SALVAGING DEMOLITION WASTE
A. Salvaged Items for Reuse in the Work: Clean salvaged items and install salvaged items 
to comply with installation requirements for new materials and equipment.
B. Salvaged Items for Sale and Donation: Permitted on Project site.
C. Salvaged Items for Owner's Use: Clean salvaged items and store in a secure area until 
delivery to Owner.
D. Doors and Hardware: Brace open end of door frames. Except for removing door 
closers, leave door hardware attached to doors.
E. Equipment: Drain tanks, piping, and ﬁxtures. Seal openings with caps or plugs.
F. Plumbing Fixtures: Separate by type and size.
G. Lighting Fixtures: Separate lamps by type and protect from breakage.
3. RECYCLING WASTE
A. General: Recycle paper and beverage containers used by on-site workers.
B. Packaging:
1. Cardboard and Boxes: Break down packaging into ﬂat sheets. Bundle and store 
in a dry location.
2. Polystyrene Packaging: Separate and bag materials.
3. Pallets: As much as possible, require deliveries using pallets to remove pallets 
from Project site. For pallets that remain on-site, break down pallets into 
component wood pieces and comply with requirements for recycling wood.
4. Crates: Break down crates into component wood pieces and comply with 
requirements for recycling wood.
C. Asphaltic Concrete Paving: Grind asphalt to maximum 4-inch (100-mm) size.
D. Asphaltic Concrete Paving: Break up and transport paving to asphalt-recycling facility.
E. Concrete: Remove reinforcement and other metals from concrete and sort with other 
metals.
1. Pulverize concrete to maximum 4-inch (100-mm) size.
F. Masonry: Remove metal reinforcement, anchors, and ties from masonry where feasible 
and sort with other metals.
EXHIBIT A.83
125
1. Pulverize masonry to maximum 4-inch (100-mm) size.
2. Clean and stack undamaged, whole masonry units on wood pallets.
G. Wood Materials:
1. Sort and stack reusable members according to size, type, and length. Separate 
lumber, engineered wood products, panel products, and treated wood materials.
2. Clean Cut-Offs of Lumber: Grind or chip into small pieces.
3. Clean Sawdust: Bag sawdust that does not contain painted or treated wood.
H. Metals: Separate metals by type.
I. Asphalt Shingle Rooﬁng: Remove and dispose of nails, staples, and accessories.
J. Gypsum Board: Stack large clean pieces on wood pallets or in container and store in a 
dry location.
K. Acoustical Ceiling Panels and Tile: Stack large clean pieces on wood pallets and store 
in a dry location.
L. Metal Suspension System: Separate metal members including trim, and other metals 
from acoustical panels and tile and sort with other metals.  Prepare for recycling.
M. Carpet and Pad: Roll large pieces tightly after removing debris, trash, adhesive, and 
tack strips.
1. Store clean, dry carpet and pad in a closed container or trailer provided by 
Carpet Reclamation Agency or carpet recycler.
N. Piping: Reduce piping to straight lengths and store by type and size. Separate 
supports, hangers, valves, sprinklers, and other components by type and size.
O. Conduit: Reduce conduit to straight lengths and store by type and size.
4. DISPOSAL OF WASTE
A. Except for items or materials to be salvaged, recycled, or otherwise reused, remove 
waste materials from Project site and legally dispose of them in a landﬁll or incinerator 
acceptable to authorities having jurisdiction.
B. Do not burn waste materials.
END OF SECTION 017419
EXHIBIT A.84
126
SECTION 018113.36 - SUSTAINABLE DESIGN REQUIREMENTS 
PART 1 - GENERAL 
1.1 SECTION REQUIREMENTS 
A. Deﬁnitions: 
1. Regional Materials: Materials that have been extracted, harvested, or recovered, as well as 
manufactured, within 500 miles (800 km) of Project site. If only a fraction of a product or 
material is extracted, harvested, or recovered and manufactured locally, then only that 
percentage (by weight) shall contribute to the regional value.  
2. Recycled Content: The recycled content shall be determined by weight. 
• "Postconsumer" material is deﬁned as waste material that is generated by end users 
of the product and that can no longer be used for its intended purpose.  
• "Preconsumer" material is deﬁned as material diverted from the waste stream 
during the manufacturing process. Excluded is reutilization of materials such as 
scrap generated in a process that is reclaimed in the same process that generated it.  
B. Submittals: 
1. Project Materials Cost Data: Provide statement indicating total cost for materials used for 
Project. Costs exclude labor, overhead, and proﬁt. Include breakout of costs for furniture, 
plumbing, mechanical, electrical, elevators and equipment and wood-based 
construction materials. Submit within 30 days of date established for commencement of 
the Work.  
2. List of proposed materials with recycled content. Indicate postconsumer recycled content 
and preconsumer recycled content for each product. Submit within 30 days of date 
established for commencement of the Work.  
3. List of proposed regional materials. Submit within 30 days of date established for 
commencement of the Work.  
4. Product Data.  
EXHIBIT A.85
127
5. Certiﬁcation letter for materials with recycled content. Indicate postconsumer recycled  
content, preconsumer recycled content, and cost for each product.  
6. Certiﬁcation letter for regional materials. Indicate location and distance from Project of  
material manufacturer and point of extraction, harvest, or recovery for each raw material. 
Include statement indicating cost for each regional material and the fraction by weight that 
is considered regional.  
7. Chain-of-custody certiﬁcates for certiﬁed wood products. Include statement of cost for 
each product.  
PART 2 - PRODUCTS 
2.1 MATERIALS 
A. Provide products and procedures necessary to meet requirements of this Section. Although 
other Sections may specify similar requirements, the Contractor shall determine additional 
materials and procedures necessary to comply with this Section. 
B. Recycled Content of Materials: Building materials shall have recycled content such that 
postconsumer recycled content plus one-half of preconsumer recycled content constitute a 
minimum of 10 percent of cost of materials used for Project. 
1. Do not include mechanical and electrical components in the calculation. 
C. Regional Materials: Not less than 10 percent of building materials (by cost) shall be regional 
materials. 
D. Certiﬁed Wood: 
1. Wood or wood-based products shall be certiﬁed to the requirements of one of the 
following: 
• American Forest Foundation's "American Tree Farm System Standards."  
• CSA Z809, "Sustainable Forest Management."  
• FSC STD-01-001, "FSC Principles and Criteria for Forest Stewardship," and  
FSC STD-40-004, "FSC Standard for Chain of Custody Certiﬁcation."  
EXHIBIT A.86
128
• Sustainable Forestry Initiative's "Sustainable Forestry Initiative Standard."  
• Other product programs recognized by Programme for the Endorsement of Forest  
Certiﬁcation schemes.  
2. The following wood or wood-based products shall be certiﬁed: 
• Wood trim. 
• Wood paneling. 
• Wood ﬂooring. 
• Wood cabinets. 
• Wood decking. 
• Floor framing. 
• Roof framing. 
• Wall framing. 
• Subﬂooring. 
• Roof sheathing. 
• Wall sheathing.  
2.2 LOW-EMITTING MATERIALS 
A. Exterior adhesives and sealants shall comply with Green Seal's GS-36 and the following 
limits for VOC content: 
1. Construction Adhesives: 75 g/L. 
2. Reactive sealants: 50 g/L. 
3. Other Caulks and Sealants: 30 g/L. 
4. Contact Adhesives: 480 g/L.  
B. Interior adhesives and sealants shall comply with Green Seal's GS-36 and with the testing 
and product requirements of the California Department of Public Health's "Standard 
Method for the Testing and Evaluation of Volatile Organic Chemical Emissions from Indoor 
Sources Using Environmental Chambers."  
C. Paints and coatings shall comply with the following limits for VOC content: 
1. Flat Paints and Coatings: 50 g/L. 
2. Nonﬂat Paints and Coatings: 150 g/L. 
3. Dry-Fog Coatings: 400 g/L. 
EXHIBIT A.87
129
4. Primers, Sealers, and Undercoaters: 200 g/L. 
5. Anticorrosive and Antirust Paints Applied to Ferrous Metals: 250 g/L. 
6. Zinc-Rich Industrial Maintenance Primers: 340 g/L. 
7. Pretreatment Wash Primers: 420 g/L. 
8. Clear Wood Finishes, Varnishes: 350 g/L. 
9. Clear Wood Finishes, Lacquers: 550 g/L. 
10. Floor Coatings: 100 g/L. 
11. Shellacs, Clear: 730 g/L. 
12. Shellacs, Pigmented: 550 g/L. 
13. Stains: 250 g/L.  
D. Composite wood and agriﬁber products and adhesives shall not contain urea-formaldehyde 
resin.  
PART 3 - EXECUTION 
3.1 REFRIGERANT REMOV AL 
A. Remove CFC-based refrigerants from existing HVAC&R equipment indicated to remain and 
replace with refrigerants that are not CFC based. Replace or adjust existing equipment to 
accommodate new refrigerant. 
3.2 CONSTRUCTION INDOOR-AIR-QUALITY MANAGEMENT 
A. Comply with SMACNA's "IAQ Guideline for Occupied Buildings under Construction." 
1. If Owner authorizes use of permanent heating, cooling, and ventilating systems during 
construction period as speciﬁed in Section 015000 "Temporary Facilities and Controls," 
install ﬁlter media having a MERV 8 according to ASHRAE 52.2 at each return-air inlet for 
the air-handling system used during construction.  
2. Replace all air ﬁlters immediately prior to occupancy.  
B. After construction ends, prior to occupancy and with all interior ﬁnishes installed, perform a 
building ﬂush out by supplying a total volume of 14000 cu. ft. (4 300 000 L) of outdoor air per 
square foot (square meter) of ﬂoor area while maintaining an internal temperature of at least 60 
deg F (16 deg C) and a relative humidity no higher than 60 percent. 
EXHIBIT A.88
130
C. After construction ends, prior to occupancy and with all interior ﬁnishes installed, perform a 
building ﬂush out by supplying a total volume of 3500 cu. ft. (1 070 000 L) of outdoor air per 
square foot (sq. m) of ﬂoor area to the space. Once a space is occupied, ventilate it at a minimum 
rate of 0.30 cfm per sq. ft. (1.52 L/s per sq. m) of outside air. During each day of the occupied 
ﬂush-out period, ventilation shall begin a minimum of three hours prior to occupancy and 
continue during occupancy. Maintain these conditions until a total of 14000 cu. ft./sq. ft. (4 300 
000 L/sq. m) of outside air has been delivered to the space. 
END OF SECTION 018113.36 
EXHIBIT A.89
131
SECTION 11 30 00 – RESIDENTIAL APPLIANCES (ENERGY STAR®) 
PART 1 – GENERAL
1.1 SUMMARY 
A. Provide ENERGY STAR® certiﬁed appliances including, but not limited to:
1. Refrigerators
2. Dishwashers
3. Clothes washers
4. Clothes dryers
5. Ventilation hoods
6. Other applicable appliances as noted in the drawings or schedule.
B. Coordinate installation with utility connections and cabinetry as required.
1.2 SUBMITTALS 
A. Product Data: Manufacturer’s speciﬁcations for each appliance, including:
1. ENERGY STAR® certiﬁcation documentation
2. Electrical and mechanical service requirements
3. Dimensions and installation requirements
B. Warranty: Manufacturer’s standard warranty for each appliance.
1.3 QUALITY ASSURANCE 
A. All appliances shall be listed in the current ENERGY STAR® database and meet the 
applicable U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR® criteria at time of submittal.
PART 2 – PRODUCTS
2.1 MANUFACTURERS 
A. Acceptable manufacturers include:
1. Whirlpool
2. GE Appliances
3. LG
4. Samsung
5. Bosch
6. Or approved equal
2.2 PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS 
A. Each appliance shall be certiﬁed as ENERGY STAR® compliant at time of procurement. 
B. Appliances shall meet the following requirements (as applicable):
1. Refrigerators: Energy use not to exceed ENERGY STAR® threshold for model size/type.
2. Dishwashers: Annual energy and water use to meet or exceed ENERGY STAR® 
speciﬁcations.
3. Clothes Washers: Minimum Integrated Modiﬁed Energy Factor (IMEF) and maximum 
Integrated Water Factor (IWF) as per ENERGY STAR® requirements.
4. Dryers: Use moisture sensors and meet ENERGY STAR® energy efﬁciency metrics.
5. Other Appliances: As speciﬁed in the project appliance schedule; must meet ENERGY 
STAR® criteria.
EXHIBIT A.90
132
2.3 MATERIALS AND FINISHES 
A. Exterior ﬁnish as speciﬁed in the Appliance Schedule. 
B. Interior materials shall be corrosion-resistant and suitable for intended use.
PART 3 – EXECUTION
3.1 INSTALLATION 
A. Install appliances in accordance with manufacturer’s instructions and local codes. 
B. Ensure proper clearances, utility connections, and accessibility for service.
3.2 FIELD QUALITY CONTROL 
A. Verify operational performance of each appliance. 
B. Replace or repair any unit found to be defective or not meeting ENERGY STAR® 
performance criteria.
3.3 CLEANING AND PROTECTION 
A. Remove protective coverings after installation. 
B. Clean surfaces per manufacturer’s instructions. 
C. Protect appliances from damage until ﬁnal acceptance.
END OF SECTION 11 30 00 
EXHIBIT A.91
133
SECTION 02900 – LANDSCAPING PLANTING
PART 1 – GENERAL
1.01 SUBMITTALS
A.Product Data: Submit product data on wood preservative materials and include 
application instructions.  
1.02 DEFINITIONS
A. Native Plants: Plants that are naturally found within the bioregion and were not 
introduced by humans (generally less dependent on irrigation and soil amendments)
B. Drip Line: Line on the ground around the base of a tree equivalent to the extent of the 
tree's canopy.
PART 2 - PRODUCTS
2.01 MATERIALS
A. Fertilizer: Organic. Do not use fertilizers containing petrochemical additives or that ha 
been treated with pesticides or herbicides.
B. Mulch: Do not use mulch that has been treated with pesticides.
1. Cellulose containing 60-100% post-consumer newspaper, wood, or cereal stem was:
2. Shredded organic material from site
C.  Soil Amendments:
1. Organic compost
2. Untreated ground gypsum-board scrap
D. Plant Materials:
1. Species native to the region and site conditions
2. Nonnative species: Noninvasive species requiring no irrigation after they are 
established 
E. Tree Stakes:
1. Plastic: 100% recycled post-consumer plastic
2. Wood:
a. FSC-certiﬁed wood products (see Section 06100, 1.02)
b. Salvaged lumber (see Section 06100, 1.02)
EXHIBIT A.92
134
F. Ties: Recycled polypropylene
G. Landscape Headers and Edging Materials:
1. Recycled-plastic lumber
2. Rot-resistant wood species from FSC-certiﬁed or salvaged wood sources (see Section 
02870, 2.01)
H. Water: Free from harmful amounts of acids, alkalis, salts, chemical pollutants, and 
organic matter
1. Stormwater collected from roofs
2. Graywater: Filtered and stored to avoid odor from anaerobic bacteria
2.02 PRODUCTS
A. Pipe:
1. Plastic pipe:
a. ABS: Minimum 50% post-consumer recycled plastic content
b. HDPE: Minimum 50% post-consumer recycled plastic content
B. Irrigation Systems:
1. Subsurface and drip irrigation:
a. Soaker hose: Minimum 65% post-consumer recycled rubber content
2. Tensiometers:
a. Moisture probes: Noncorrosive stainless steel alloy
b. Moisture stat: Electronic moisture-sensing device
PART 3 - EXECUTION
3.01 SITE CLEARING
A. Plan equipment and vehicle access to minimize and conﬁne soil disturbance and 
compaction to areas indicated on Drawings.
B. Do not disturb topsoil and vegetation in areas outside those indicated on Drawings.
C. Protect trees, vegetation, and other designated features by erecting high-visibility, 
reusable construction fencing. Locate fence no closer to trees than the drip line.
D. Provide on-site locations for excavated rock, soil, and vegetation.
EXHIBIT A.93
135
E. Provide erosion control and seeding with native plant species to protect slopes.
END OF SECTION 02900
EXHIBIT A.94
136
SECTION 07200 – BUILDING INSULATION 
PART 1 – GENERAL
1.01 SUBMITTALS
A. Product Data:
1. Manufacturer's speciﬁcations for each type of insulation required, including binders, 
additives, and expanding agents.
2. Certiﬁcation that vermiculite insulation does not contain asbestos.
1.02 QUALITY ASSURANCE
A. Use aped and settled values for thermal resistance factors (R-values), tested in 
accordance with ASTM C518 at 75° F and 50% relative humidity for at least 6 months.
1.03 TESTING AND INSPECTIONS
A. Inspect insulation for proper installation. Correct defects, such as voids, gaps, or 
insulation compressed behind pipes, before accepting work.
B. Verify that damp-spray cellulose insulation is installed with a maximum moisture com 
of 40%.
C. Conduct blower door test to verify that airtightness of building envelope is better that 
1.0 air changes per hour at 50 pascals.
1.04 INDOOR AIR QUALITY
A. Insulation products that contain loose ﬁber or chemicals that offgas should be sealed in 
living spaces.
B. Protect ducts and HVAC system from loose insulation particulates: ﬁberglass, cellulose, 
vermiculite, etc.
PART 2 - PRODUCTS
2.01 MATERIALS
A. Thermal Batt Insulation:
1. Formaldehyde-free ﬁberglass batts: made with lower toxicity acrylic resin.
EXHIBIT A.95
137
2. Standard glass ﬁber: Minimum 15% post-consumer recycled content, minimum 30%
total recycled content
3. Mineral wool, rock wool: Minimum 75% post-industrial metallurgical slag
4. Cotton: Recycled denim
5. Facing:
a. Foil: Provides radiant barrier if air space is provided in front of foil
b.Kraft paper
c. Encapsulated: Provides protection from glass ﬁbers
d.Unfaced: Use for sound insulation or when a separate vapor retarder is used.
B. Rigid Board Insulation:
1. Cellular glass foam: Inert, nontoxic, suitable for use below grade
2. Expanded polystyrene: Use densities above 1.5 lb/sq. ft. for below grade
3. Extruded polystyrene: Suitable for use below grade; 5% recycled content (Expanding 
agent:     HCFC-142b, an ozone-depleting chemical; avoid)
4. Polyurethane: 5% recycled content; expanding agent: HFC-134a . 
5. Polyisocyanurate foam: Expanding agents: butane and isopentane hydrocarbons 
(Non-ozone-     depleting chemicals)
6. Perlite composition board: 25% recycled content
C. Damp Spray-Applied Cellulose Insulation: Suitable for vertical installations
1. Cellulose: 80% post-consumer paper
a. Fire retardant: Borate
2. Mineral wool: 60% post-industrial recycled content (slag)
D. Loose Fill Insulation:
1. Fiberglass: Minimum 15% post-consumer recycled content, minimum 30% total 
recycled content; contains no binders [Can be applied to wall and ceiling cavities by 
attaching netting to the face of the studs]
2. Mineral wool: 60% post-industrial recycled content (slag) 
3. Cellulose: 80% post-consumer paper [Can be applied to wall and ceiling cavities by 
attaching netting to the face of the studs]
4. Perlite/ vermiculite
EXHIBIT A.96
138
E. Foamed-in-Place Insulation:
1. Silicate foam: Composed of an inorganic, cementitious stabilizer (magnesium oxide), 
a microscopic cell generator, a catalyst, and compressed air; ﬁreproof, nontoxic, no 
VOC emissions; nonsettling, nonshrinking, friable if touched or jostled
2. Soy-based open-cell polyurethane: Water-based polyurethane, low-density, no VOC 
emissions after 30 days; foaming agent: carbon dioxide and water
3. Closed-cell high-density polyurethane: [Most products use ozone-depleting blowing 
agents; specify those that use HFC-134a or hydrocarbons as blowing agent.)
4. Open-cell polyurethane: Water-based polyurethane, low-density, no VOC emissions 
after 30 days; foaming agent: carbon dioxide and water
F. Radiant Barriers:
1. Foil-faced kraft paper
2. Polyethylene ﬁlm with aluminized layer
3. Aluminum foil-faced polyethylene foam: Foam, 40% recycled content
4. Foil-faced OSB, plywood, or recycled-paper sheathing
2.02 ACCESSORY MATERIALS
A. Insulation Supports:
1. Corrugated cardboard for overhead installations: 65% recycled content, available with 
foil facing
2. Netting for blown-in insulation in wall and ceiling cavities
B. Acoustical Caulk: Low-VOC
PART 3 - EXECUTION
3.01 INSTALLATION
A. Thermal and Acoustic Batt Insulation:
1. Installers shall wear protective clothing and respirators.
2. Install thermal insulation with facing to inside of wall assembly.
3. Install insulation snugly between framing members, with all ends sny ﬁtel tween 
units and against adjacent construction. Fill all air gaps.
4. Carefully cut and ﬁt insulation around pipes, conduit, and other obstruction 
penetrations. Do not compress insulation to ﬁt.
5. Do not use insulation with ripped backs or edges.
EXHIBIT A.97
139
6. Where door and window frames occur in framing, cut additional strip orin and 
hand-pack as necessary to ﬁll voids thoroughly in and around frames
B. Rigid Board Insulation:
1. Installers shall wear protective clothing and respirators.
2. Install insulation snugly between framing members and with all ends snugly 
between units and against adjacent construction.
3. Carefully cut and ﬁt insulation around pipes, conduit, and other obstructions and 
penetrations.
C. Spray-Applied and Foamed-in-Place Insulation:
1. Damp-spray cellulose, silicate foam, and open-cell polyurethane shall be inte 
licensed installers.
2. Damp-spray cellulose: Reference CIMA Technical Bulletin #3, "Standard Prat the 
Installation of Sprayed Cellulosic Wall Cavity Insulation" (www.cellulose.org.)
 Insulation shall have a maximum moisture content of 25% before enclosing.
3. Loose-ﬁll cellulose:
a. Attic installation: Cover ceiling evenly to speciﬁed depth.
b. Existing wall cavities
c. Overhead ceiling cavities and wall cavities: Install netting recommended by 
manufacturer. Insert nozzle in slits cut in netting. For wide (24") or deep (12” or 
greater)
ceiling rafter, install strapping perpendicular to rafters at 24 o.c. for additional 
support.
D. Radiant Barriers:
1. Install in attics on bottom side of roof sheathing or bottom side of rafters.
2. Maintain a minimum 2" air-facing radiant barrier.
3.02 WASTE MANAGEMENT
A. Plan and coordinate the insulation work to minimize the generation of offcuts and 
waste. Reuse insulation scraps to the maximum extent feasible.
B. Separate and recycle waste materials in accordance with the Waste Management Plan 
and to the maximum extent economically feasible.
C. Reuse insulation scraps in attic areas or other locations where out of view.
END OF SECTION 07200
EXHIBIT A.98
140
SECTION 08561 – VINYL WINDOWS 
SECTION 08562 -  ABS WINDOWS 
SECTION 08565 - FIBERGLASS WINDOWS 
SECTION 08800 - GLAZING 
SECTION 08900 - GLAZED CURTAIN WALL 
PART 1 – GENERAL
1.01 DEFINITIONS
A. U-Factor - Btu/hr .  sq.ft . *F: Lower value means higher insulation value.
B. R-Value - Inverse of U-value: Resistance to heat ﬂow. Higher value means higher insula-
C. Center-of-Glass Performance Values: U-factor or R-value calculated at center of glass (no 
“Edge effect”)
D. Unit Performance Values: U-factor or R-value calculated for entire glazing area (NFRC 
certiﬁed values based on standard-sized glazing units)
E. Visible Transmittance - Tois: % of light energy transmitted by given glazing
F. Solar Heat Gain Coefﬁcient (SHGC): Measure of total solar heat transmitted by given 
glazing
G. Shading Coefﬁcient: Solar heat transmitted relative to a single glass pane
H. Luminous Efﬁcacy Factor - (ke) = Tvis/SC: Ratio of light transmission divided by 
shading coefﬁcient
I. Solar Reﬂectance: % of light or solar energy that a given glazing reﬂects to the outside
J. Tinted Glass: Controls the amount of sunlight admitted
K. Spectrally Selective Glazings: Glazings that selectively transmit sunlight of particular 
wavelength to minimize unwanted heat gain while having minimal impact on visible 
light transmission
EXHIBIT A.99
141
1.02 SUBMITTALS
A. Window Unit U-factor Performance: Measured in accordance with National Fenestration 
Rating Council (NFRC) 100, measuring total U-factor for a window averaged over the 
entire unit (accounting for edge losses).
B. Insulating glass shall be certiﬁed under a Sealed Insulating Glass Manufacturers' 
Association (SIGMA)-approved certiﬁcation program.
C. Submit written warranty for hermetically sealed insulating glass unit, agreeing to 
replace units which fail to maintain hermetic seal of air space, deteriorate, or otherwise 
fail to perform as required within 10 years after date of Substantial Completion as a 
result of failure of materials or workmanship.
1.03 ENERGY EFFICIENCY
A. Glazing Insulation Performance for heating climates: Glazing system shall meet or excel 
the following unit U-factors based on NFRC standards:
1. Multiple low-e coatings or ﬁlms between interior and exterior panes of glass with 
argon or krypton gas between the panes: U < 0.20
2. One layer of selective low-e coated ﬁlm between two layers of glass with argon or 
krypton gas between the panes: U < 0.25
3. Two layers of glass, one of which is coated a low-e coating, with argon or krypton 
gas 
between the panes: U < 0.30
B. Solar Heat Gain Coefﬁcient (SFGC) for cooling climates: Glazing system shall meet or 
exceed the following SHGC:
1. Selective low-e coating: SHGC < 0.40
C. Luminous Efﬁcacy: Glazing shall meet or exceed a luminous efﬁcacy of Ke = 1.0.
PART 2 –PRODUCTS
2.01 GLASS GLAZING
A. Insulating Glass: Certiﬁed under SIGMA-approved program and meeting CBA Grade 
requirement
1. Spacers: Select low-conductivity spacers; use one of the following:
a. Thin-gauge, C-section steel
EXHIBIT A.100
142
b. Steel-reinforced butyl rubber
c. Thermally broken aluminum
d. Polyurethane and silicon foams
2.02 PLASTIC GLAZING
A. Polycarbonate: (Avoid due to potentially hazardous constituent chemicals, specially 
including 
Bisphenol A”)
B. Acrylic
2.03 RELATED GLAZING MATERIALS
A. Low-Emissivity Coatings:
1. Coating(s) on glass
2. Coating on suspended plastic ﬁlm
B. Heat-Absorbing Glass - Tinted: Green or blue
C. Gas Fill:
1. Argon
2. Krypton
2.04 GLAZING MATERIALS
A. Sealants for Glazing: One-part, gun-grade, white silicone
B. Joint Backer: Diameter size at least 25% larger than joint width; type and material as 
recommended in writing by glass and sealant manufacturer
C. Glazing Blocks and Spacers: Closed-cell neoprene complying with ASTM C509, in black 
color
D. Glazing Gaskets for Factory-Glazed Units: Unit manufacturer's standard preformed
E. Glazing Tape: PVC gasket complying with ASTM D2287
F. Weatherstripping: Specify compression-type weatherstripping for casement and awning 
window types
2.05 SASH MATERIALS
EXHIBIT A.101
143
A. Wood:
1. Engineered wood sash: Wood veneer over engineered wood core with metal cladding
2. Custom wood sash:
a. FSC-certiﬁed wood from well-managed forests (see Section 06100)
b. Salvaged wood
3. Finishes: Factory-applied ﬁnish
4. Claddings:
a. Aluminum: Anodized coating, polyvinylidene ﬂuoride coating, or siliconized 
polyester  coating
B. Wood and Plastic Composite: Post-industrial wood ﬁber and 100% post-consumer HDPE 
plastic
C. Metal Frame: Provide thermal breaks for metal framed windows. Specify durable, fac-tory-
applied ﬁnishes: anodized, polyvinylidene ﬂuoride (Kynar), siliconized polyester.
D. Vinyl:
1. Foamed PVC: High R-value (2.5); uses more PVC than regular vinyl windows, with 
same environmental and performance issues
E. Fiberglass (ﬁberglass-reinforced polyester):
F. ABS Plastic
2.06 CURTAIN WALL SYSTEMS
A. High-Performance Glazing with unit U-factor < 0.25:
1. Dual glazing with [one] [two] low-e coatings)
2. Dual glazing with (one [two] suspended ﬁlm[s], each with a low-e coating
B. Integrated Photovoltaic Glazing:
1. Opaque photovoltaic cells applied to glazing (particularly appropriate for spandrel
2. Single-junction amorphous silicon photovoltaics on glass panels (available with 1% 
to 10% transmissivity)
3. Thin-ﬁlm photovoltaic modules on glass substrate (available products with 5% to 
30% transmissivity)
C. Metal Framing
EXHIBIT A.102
144
1. Provide thermal break.
PART 3 - EXECUTION
3.01 INSTALLATION
A. Compression Gaskets: Miter-cut at corners and install in manner recommended by 
gasket manufacturer to prevent pull-away at corners.
B. Close and seal tightly all partly used sealant containers and store protected in well-venti-
lated, ﬁre-safe area at moderate temperature.
3.02 WASTE MANAGEMENT
A. Separate ﬂoat glass and place in designated areas for reuse or recycling (cannot be 
recycled with beverage-container glass).
B. Separate tempered glass for use as aggregate or nonstructural ﬁll.
C. Separate plastic materials and place in designated areas for reuse or recycling (if 
recycling options are available locally).
D. Separate corrugated cardboard in accordance with the Waste Management Plan and 
place in designated areas for recycling.
 
END OF SECTION 08561 / 08562 / 08565 / 08800 / 08900
EXHIBIT A.103
145
SECTION 11176 – RECYCLING EQUIPMENT 
PART 1 – GENERAL
1.01 SUBMITTALS
A. Provide signage and labeling at recycling areas.
PART 2 - PRODUCTS
2.01 INDOOR RECYCLING BINS
A. Under-Counter Recycling Bins: Roll-out and / or revolving bins for separation of 
recyclable materials; construction: post-consumer plastic
B. High-Rise Recycling System: Turntable-mounted bins to receive recyclables from trash 
chutes; controlled by electronic keypads
2.02 OUTDOOR RECYCLING RECEPTACLES
A. Curbside Bins: Recycled-content plastic
B. Roll-out Cans/ Carts:
1. Provide appropriate signage.
2. Size: 32 gallons to 2 cubic yards
END OF SECTION  11176
EXHIBIT A.104
146
SECTION 13600 – SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS 
PART 1 – GENERAL
PART 2 - PRODUCTS
2.01 VACUUM TUBE COLLECTOR
A. Evacuated-Tube Collector [High-temperature residential and commercial applications)
2.02 CONTROLLERS
A. Drain-Back System
B. Recirculating System
C. Simple Drain-Down Controls with proven freeze protection
2.03 STORAGE TANK (Specify best feasible thermal performance; avoid insulation made with 
ozone-depleting blowing agents.)
2.04 PHOTOVOLTAIC CELLS
A. Single Crystal: Silicon wafers sawn from single silicon crystals, 15% to 24% efﬁcient
B. Polycrystal: Silicon wafers sawn from polycrystalline silicon, 14% to 18% efﬁcient
C. Thin Silicon Crystal (no wafer cutting required):
1. Ribbon technology: 11% to 13% efﬁcient
2. Crystalline silicon on stainless steel substrate: 10% efﬁcient
D. Thin-Film Amorphous Silicon (no wafer cutting required): 4% to 7% efﬁcient [Lower 
efﬁciency, lower cost]
1. Tandem-junction
2. Triple-junction
E. Thin-Film Cadmium-Telluride (no wafer cutting required)
F. Thin-Film Copper Indium Diselenide CIS
2.07 BUILDING-INTEGRATED PHOTOVOLTAIC (BIPV) COMPONENTS
EXHIBIT A.105
147
A. PV Glazing Modules:
1. Semi-transparent PV collectors for diffuse glazing applications
2. Opaque for spandrel glazing applications, overhangs, light shelves
END OF SECTION 13600
EXHIBIT A.106
148
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1225	Deer	Valley	Drive,	Suite	201					435.615.2264	 	 	 	 	 Affiliated	with	Dart,	Adamson	&	Donovan 	
Park	City,	UT	84060	 												 									hlhparkcity.com	
Justin	Keys	
Justin@hlhparkcity.com	
Direct:	435.731.9195	
November 18, 2025 
 
VIA EMAIL & HAND DELIVERY 
 
Snyderville Basin Planning Commission 
Attn: Amir Caus 
Summit County Planner 
Summit County Planning & Zoning 
60 N. Main St.  
Coalville, Utah 84017 
 
RE: Supplemental information in response to October 28 meeting 
 
Dear Planning Commissioners:  
 
This law firm represents Junction Commons (or the “Applicant”) formerly known as “The 
Tanger Outlets at Park City” and as “The Factory Stores at Park City.” Please accept this letter as 
a formal supplement to our prior submissions and a response to questions raised by the Planning 
Commission in prior hearings.   
 
Junction Commons is proposing a rezone from the Town Center zone to the Neighborhood 
Mixed Use (“NMU”) zone. In conjunction with that rezone (and as required by Summit County 
Code) Junction Commons is proposing a master planned development (“MPD”). The rezone and 
MPD will facilitate redevelopment of the existing outlet center as a mixed-use development. In 
prior work sessions and public hearings, Junction Commons established that its proposal meets the 
requirements for a rezone to NMU and the criteria necessary for the adoption of an MPD.  
 
A majority of the Planning Commissioners indicated in the most recent hearing that they’re 
prepared to move forward with a vote on Junction Commons’ applications. The Commission 
instructed Staff to schedule a vote and prepare draft conditions of approval, findings of fact, and 
conclusions of law supporting approval as soon as practicable. We appreciate the Commissions 
careful consideration of our application and willingness to move forward.  
 
There are a few items identified as discussion items in Staffs’ thorough report. The Planning 
Commissioners provided input on those discussion items and appear, generally, to be in support 
EXHIBIT B.1
149
Junction Commons 
November 18, 2025 
 
2 
of Junction Commons’ request. However, to further support that decision, the Applicant provides 
the following supplemental information on those points of discussion.  
 
1. Is the building height exception up to 60 feet merited and should it include an additional 
exception for mechanical equipment.  
 
The regulation of building height in the NMU zone is found in Snyderville Basin Development 
Code Section 10-2-17(F). That section provides that “the maximum building height in the NMU-
1 Zone shall be forty-five feet (45’).” However, the Code also provides an exception, stating: “The 
County Council may grant a height exception up to a maximum of 60 feet to accommodate 
affordable housing and/or structured parking through the MPD process.” Id.  
 
The Junction Commons MPD proposes 205 units of affordable housing disbursed throughout 
the proposed redevelopment and features structured parking for residential and commercial shared 
uses, thereby satisfying both conditions for a height exception. The Commission expressed some 
reservations about the increase to 60 feet in building height and for that reason requested a site 
walk with a story pole demonstrating the proposed height. In response to that request, the Applicant 
installed a pole at 60 feet and noted other existing buildings at the property that are at, and near, 
60 feet in overall building height.  
 
 
EXHIBIT B.2
150
Junction Commons 
November 18, 2025 
 
3 
Junction Commons was originally constructed in a former quarry. As such, the existing grade 
is well below that of nearby properties (Walmart and Liberty Peak). The design team located the 
proposed new buildings in this depression, while respecting the adjoining Liberty Peak apartments 
massing by interposing a townhome product as a transition in scale. As shown in the following 
images (and highlighted by the red dashed line), the buildings requesting the exception are well 
below surrounding uses. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Put simply, given topography, massing, and scale of the surrounding uses the building height 
exception in this instance will have minimal impact on adjoining properties.  
 
Staff also raised questions regarding the potential placement of mechanical equipment and 
elevator penthouses on the roof of the Applicant’s proposed 60-foot buildings and questioned 
whether Building Height should be measured from the top of this equipment. In response, the 
Applicant indicated that it believes mechanical equipment should be exempt from the Building 
Height measurement. However, in the event the Planning Commission and County Council intend 
that the max 60-feet Building Height include mechanical equipment, the Applicant is willing to 
abide by that height limitation as well by locating mechanical elsewhere—this is reflected in the 
Applicants’ submittal drawings.
1  
 
 
1 See Enclosure 1 with relevant pages of applicant’s submittal.  
EXHIBIT B.3
151
Junction Commons 
November 18, 2025 
 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
The foregoing images illustrate that the project’s proposed buildings include a parapet at the 
perimeter of the building form. This parapet is under the sixty-foot building height requirement 
and the elevator overruns work within the height of the parapet. By specifying an elevator 
manufacturer whose equipment requires only a 4-foot shaft extension above the roof level, the 
elevator machinery remains concealed behind the parapet and within the 60-foot height limit. The 
EXHIBIT B.4
152
Junction Commons 
November 18, 2025 
 
5 
elevator cab will serve all occupied floors, with the machine room and equipment housed in this 
minimal overhead space that does not require a visible penthouse structure. 
 
Furthermore, any roof access stair has been redesigned as a partially exterior stair, with 
approximately half of the upper run exposed to the elements. A code-compliant landing with 
integrated drainage has been incorporated at the transition point, eliminating the need for a fully 
enclosed stair tower or penthouse. While this open-air configuration creates operational 
challenges, it meets building code requirements for roof access while avoiding additional building 
height. 
 
The original penthouses projected above the primary roofline as separate enclosed structures, 
contributing to the overall building height. The revised approach tucks all mechanical and access 
elements within or flush with the roof plane, concealed behind the building parapet. This design 
change reduces visual massing while maintaining full functionality and code compliance. 
 
So, even if no building height exception is allowed for mechanical equipment, the Applicant 
will comply with the 60-foot height limitation. A height that is appropriate for the location and 
proposed uses.  
 
2. The Applicant is proposing to construct its affordable housing requirement as the first 
product in each phase of its development and requests the Planning Commission’s support 
for a reduction in its affordable housing obligation in return.  
 
The Applicant is seeking a reduction in its affordable housing obligation in exchange for 
building the affordable housing as the first product in each phase of its redevelopment. This is 
expressly allowed under the code. Snyderville Basin Development Code Section 10-5-4(F)(1) 
states that “[i]f a developer provides all the required affordable housing up front (prior to the first 
certificate of occupancy for the market portion of the development), the number of required AUEs 
may be reduced  by up to twenty five percent (25%) at the discretion of the land use authority.”  
 
There was some question as to whether it is appropriate to apply the reduction where the 
affordable housing is being constructed in phases. The Applicant is constructing the affordable 
housing per phase because that is required by the code. Snyderville Basin Development Code 
Section 10-5-3(4) provides that “[t]he affordable housing component in a development shall be 
constructed concurrently with the rest of the development” and “[e]ach phase of a project must 
contain a proportionate amount of the required affordable housing.” If each phase is required to 
“contain a proportionate amount of the required affordable housing”, then it is the only way to 
front-load and meet the requirements of Chapter 5.  
 
Here, the Applicant is proposing to construct the affordable housing first in each phase of its 
development, prior to the certificate of occupancy being granted for any market portion of that 
phase. The first phase of the residential redevelopment of the upper lot will begin with the 
construction of an all-affordable building containing 97 deed restricted affordable units with a mix 
EXHIBIT B.5
153
Junction Commons 
November 18, 2025 
 
6 
of studio, one-bedroom, and two-bedroom apartments. This all-affordable building will be the first 
new building constructed as part of this development.  
 
Each subsequent phase of the proposed redevelopment supplies the proportionate share of 
affordable units as the first units delivered to qualify for the bonus reduction in the affordable 
housing requirements contemplated in the code. For the phases of redevelopment occurring in the 
lower lot, the affordable housing will be provided in the form of residential units constructed as 
upper floors above ground floor commercial offerings. It bears noting that all residential product 
constructed in the lower lot will be affordable, there is no market rate residential product 
contemplated as part of those phases.  
 
The layers in yellow (the upper stories) are the residential component of the in-fill development 
of the lower lot. All of this residential will be affordable units: 
 
 
 
Here are some of the sample images that were provided with the Applicant’s submittal 
demonstrating what the infill buildings will look like:  
 
EXHIBIT B.6
154
Junction Commons 
November 18, 2025 
 
7 
 
 
EXHIBIT B.7
155
Junction Commons 
November 18, 2025 
 
8 
 
For each of these buildings, the affordable residential units will be completed first, with no 
certificates of occupancy granted on the market rate components until after the certificates of 
occupancy are obtained for the affordable residential.  
 
This redevelopment proposes to replace approximately 100,000 square feet of existing outlet 
retail space and associated parking with mixed-income housing units, including the 204 deed 
restricted affordable units. In other words, the Applicant is proposing to replace existing 
commercial density with, among other uses, affordable housing units. This results in a net positive 
benefit to the community because it provides affordable housing in place of existing commercial 
uses.  
 
As discussed in the prior public hearing, the reduction is an incentive built into the code to 
motivate developers to build affordable housing first, not last. Here, we’re committed to building 
that housing first. In exchange, we’re requesting a total reduction in our affordable housing 
obligation of approximately 16%.  
 
Staff also raised a question regarding the affordability of the townhome product in phase four 
of the proposed redevelopment. The townhome product proposed is a for-sale product. Phase four 
includes 30 units of affordable deed restricted apartments in addition to the for-sale townhomes. 
The Applicant is meeting its affordable obligation without including the townhome product and 
there is nothing in the code implying that an applicant is required to include affordable product 
amongst every distinct housing type. That said, the Applicant is willing to restrict two of its for-
sale townhome units to be sold to an attainable buyer at 120% of Summit County AMIs. To be 
clear, this is not an obligation under the code. Rather, it is an additional gesture of goodwill that 
the Applicant is willing to provide as part of this redevelopment.  
 
3. The Applicant will mitigate any construction traffic harm and is proposing increasing 
pedestrian connectivity and multi-modal options that result in a net positive in overall 
transportation solutions in the area.  
 
As with all development in Summit County, traffic impacts are always a concern. This is true 
during construction phases, after occupancy, and into the future. The Applicant’s traffic study 
demonstrates that its proposal will not increase the failure of any intersection in the area beyond 
background failures occurring as a result of existing conditions.  
 
Planning Commissioners asked questions regarding impacts to surrounding property owners 
that may result due to construction traffic. Any time you engage in redevelopment in a town center 
such as Kimball Junction impacts on existing property owners are a concern. Here, the Applicant 
is willing to agree to conditions of approval that mitigate against harms that may result to 
neighboring property owners as a result of construction traffic. During the permitting process, it is 
anticipated that the Applicant and its contractor will be required to provide a Construction 
EXHIBIT B.8
156
Junction Commons 
November 18, 2025 
 
9 
Mitigation Plan that must include a detailed Traffic Control Plan. That plan is required to include 
conditions aimed at minimizing community and environmental impacts during construction.2  
 
The Applicant is proposing to replace existing commercial uses with a mix of uses including 
residential that will increase the walkability of the site. To facilitate this pedestrian access the 
Applicant is proposing a wholesale improvement to the internal and external trail connections for 
the site. The Applicant is also proposing to incorporate a bike route to and through the site along 
with related bike parking conveniently located in improved park amenities.  
 
Consistent with the requirements of the NMU, the Applicant is also improving transit options 
to the site by providing a dedicated and improved transit stop with an improved shelter, waiting 
area, proximate restrooms, bicycle lockers, and bike racks.
3 The Applicant is also proposing to 
provide multiple Summit County Bikeshare locations, including one adjacent to the improve transit 
stop. High Valley Transit has reviewed the Applicant’s proposal and found that it provides the 
transit improvements necessary to “mitigate the impacts of the development.”  
 
The redevelopment of Junction Commons into a mixed-use neighborhood unlocks many 
exciting improvements to publicly accessible infrastructure. Many of these improvements are 
focused upon bike, pedestrian, and transit connectivity. These improvements will be made on a 
phase-by-phase basis.   
 
PHASE ONE   
 
The recently completed phase one of the redevelopment was delivered this summer. It included 
the façade enhancements, rebrand, and creation of a new seating area and crosswalk at the 
Landmark Drive entry. This improved pedestrian safety for patrons crossing between the east and 
 
2 See detailed Construction Mitigation Plan application form, 
https://www.summitcountyutah.gov/DocumentCenter/View/25141/Construction-Mitigation-Form.  
3 See Snyderville Basin Code § 10-2-17(H)(5) (“All Master Planned Developments in the NMU-1 zone shall provide 
facilities that substantially facilitate, enhance, and support the use of alternative public transportation options such as 
transit services, neighbor hood circulators, employee shuttles, car share, bicycle share, and bicycle and pedestrian 
infrastructure. Unless otherwise permitted through the Master Planned Development process, all Master Planned 
Developments in the NMU -1 zone shall provide a transit c enter, transportation stops and/or other improvements 
necessary to mitigate the impacts of the development. Unless otherwise permitted through the Master Planned 
Development process, all transit centers shall include a building with a waiting area, restrooms, bicycle lockers, and 
bike racks. All transportation stops shall include shelters and bicycle racks to mitigate the impacts of the development. 
EXHIBIT B.9
157
Junction Commons 
November 18, 2025 
 
10 
west sides of the project and provides a gathering and seating area adjacent to some of the new 
food offerings at Junction Commons. 
   
PHASE TWO 
 
Phase two and the balance of the improvements are unlocked by this rezone, MPD and CUP 
application. This phase includes the demolition of the upper loop of existing retail buildings 
(approximately 100,000 square feet) in preparation for the development and construction of a new 
cluster of mixed-income multifamily buildings, townhomes and mixed-use buildings.    
 
Phase two also brings a new multi-use trail providing a much-needed trail connection between 
the Millenium Trail along Landmark Drive (close to Whole Foods) and Powderwood Drive at 
Overland Drive, which is central to the many residents at the existing Liberty Peak Apartments, 
Crestview Condos, Powderwood condos and beyond. This new trail provides a flatter, shorter route 
between the residential areas and commercial areas surrounding Junction Commons.  
 
EXHIBIT B.10
158
Junction Commons 
November 18, 2025 
 
11 
 
 
PHASE THREE  
 
Phase three delivers the first residences of the project leading with 97 deed-restricted 
affordable apartments.  These are followed by 186 market rate apartments and associated parking.   
The residential units are in three buildings surrounding a new green and pool.   
 
The roundabout and surroundings between the upper and lower loop of the project are 
transformed with phase three to improve the connectivity between the two areas. A new enclosed 
bus shelter will be constructed with bike parking and a new Summit Bike Share Station to allow 
residents and guests to seemly access transit and other alternative transportation options. This area 
EXHIBIT B.11
159
Junction Commons 
November 18, 2025 
 
12 
will also include a new gathering area for concerts and dining. Phase three will also include 
improved connections to the existing trails toward Walmart and Liberty Peak Apartments.   
 
PHASE FOUR 
 
Adjacent to the Liberty Peak apartments, phase four will include a mixed-use building 
containing 30 affordable apartments and 7300 square feet of neighborhood commercial fronting 
the newly improved upper roundabout. Phase four also brings 42 townhomes adjacent to the 
Liberty Peak Apartments providing a transition in mass, scale and intensity.  
 
Phase four also delivers a new playground in the southwest corner of the site, central to the 
new Junction Commons housing as well as Liberty Peak apartments. It is also anticipated that a 
new trail will be developed by the upcoming Dakota Pacific development which would follow the 
existing gas line easement toward the Kimball Transit Center. Junction Commons plans to develop 
a new connection to that trail when it is completed.  
 
EXHIBIT B.12
160
Junction Commons 
November 18, 2025 
 
13 
 
 
 
PHASE FIVE 
 
Phase five is the start of new development on the existing lower parking lots. Featuring four 
mixed-use buildings with ground floor retail and upper floor affordable housing, Phase five also 
creates a new north-south pedestrian way bisecting the existing linear park at the midpoint of the 
parking lot.    
 
With the start of redevelopment on the lower lot, a new “Portal” will be created through the 
existing east wall of retail. This new East Portal will connect to the Millenium Trail and provide a 
direct route toward Whole Foods and surrounding commercial offerings.   
 
A second Summit Bike Share Station would be moved from its current location by the linear 
park to the East Portal for the convenience of patrons inside and outside Junction Commons.    
Junction Commons will continue to coordinate with High Valley Transit to develop a potential bus 
stop on Landmark Drive at this location as well.   
 
 
EXHIBIT B.13
161
Junction Commons 
November 18, 2025 
 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT B.14
162
Junction Commons 
November 18, 2025 
 
15 
PHASE SIX 
 
Phase six includes four additional mixed-use buildings similar to phase five but oriented east 
west roughly along the existing linear park and aligning with the East Portal. These buildings 
create an inviting east-west pedestrian way. At the intersection of the new pedestrian ways, phase 
six also brings a new neighborhood amphitheater, playground and gathering areas for residents 
and patrons.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT B.15
163
Junction Commons 
November 18, 2025 
 
16 
 
PHASE 7 
 
Phase seven introduces a second parking structure and final affordable mixed-use buildings 
surrounding the central plaza of the neighborhood. Phase seven also opens a new West Portal 
toward  Powderwood Drive to serve the many residents in that area. The West Portal will be created 
by removing existing retail space to create a new pedestrian route to and through Junction 
Commons.  
 
 
4. The site is designed to take advantage of the topography and maximize utility through 
redevelopment of an existing commercial development.  
 
The design concept takes advantage of the topography by locating the tallest sections of the 
project in an area that is lower than the surrounding properties. By locating residential in this area, 
adjacent to existing residential it works as a buffer to the commercial property above to the east 
and below to the north. Additionally, the project has been designed to transition in height from the 
existing residential buildings located on the west of the property with smaller scale townhouses 
transitioning to the taller residential. 
 
The design also maximizes utility by removing the commercial from the southern area of the 
site and concentrating commercial in the center of the existing expansive parking lot. This move 
EXHIBIT B.16
164
Junction Commons 
November 18, 2025 
 
17 
creates public spaces for pedestrians at the heart of the commercial development and encourages 
pedestrian access over the current car-centric design. 
 
We thank you in advance for your consideration. Please feel free to contact me with any 
questions or if you would like any additional information regarding our application.  
 
 
     Very Truly Yours, 
     HOGGAN LEE HUTCHINSON 
 
     
     
     Justin J. Keys  
  
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT B.17
165
EXHIBIT B.18
166
 
Transportation Planning 
1885 Ute Blvd. 
Park City, UT 84098 
Summitcountyutah.gov 
Memo 
To:        Snyderville Planning and Zoning Commission 
From:     Carl Miller, PMP, AICP CTP, Transportation Planning Director 
Date:       September 5, 2025 
Subject:  Junction Commons Master Planned Development (24-087) 
 
Overview 
 
The Summit County Transportation Planning Division has reviewed the Junction Commons 
Master Planned Development located at 6699 N Landmark Dr (Parcel FSE-1) and would like to 
address the following items for the benefit of the Snyderville Planning and Zoning Commission, 
including the Traffic Impact Study, parking, and site design based on the August 6, 2025 plans 
submitted. 
 
The project proposes: 
• 432 new residential units 
• 51,000 sq. ft. of new commercial space 
• Demolition of ~97,505 sq. ft. of commercial space 
• Total future commercial: ~287,000 sq. ft. 
 
Key transportation review topics: 
1. Traffic Impact Study 
2. Parking and Phasing 
3. Site Circulation and Transit 
 
Traffic Impact Study 
The county Automobile Level of Service (LOS) standards are “roadways and intersections in the 
Snyderville Basin shall be a level of service C for county roads and intersections.” The applicant 
hired Hales Engineering to conduct a Traffic Impact Study (TIS), dated May 2, 2025. The TIS 
evaluated traffic generated by the project and the capacity for existing roads and intersections 
for existing conditions (2024) and future (2029 and 2050) conditions, with and without trips 
generated by the development. The counts were performed on Wednesday, May 15 and 
Thursday, May 16, 2024. Here is a summary of the findings: 
EXHIBIT C.1
167
Key Findings 
• Daily trips generated: 3,184 
• Peak hour trips: +242 AM, +578 PM (net increase) 
• Existing LOS: 
o Whole Foods/Landmark Dr → LOS D (degrades to LOS F) 
o Walmart/Landmark Dr → LOS D (degrades to LOS F) 
• Safety: No fatal/serious injury crashes in past 5 years 
• Access: East access to Landmark Dr. restricted to right-turn egress only 
Study Limitations 
• May traffic counts are 13% below peak July/December volumes. Consultant noted that 
adjusting for seasonality would not significantly change recommendations. 
Recommended Improvements (from TIS) 
• Roundabout at Landmark Dr./Whole Foods intersection (ROW feasibility TBD) 
• Widening westbound Walmart/Landmark Dr. approach for turn lanes, or restricting to 
right-turn only 
Transportation Planning Recommendations – Traffic Impact Study 
• Traffic counts were performed during May 15-16, 2024. The May counts do not reflect 
peak seasonality and are 13% less than summer (July) and winter (December) peaks. The 
applicant should update each figure that reflects May volume to reflect peak season 
volumes (July or December) so this can be confirmed. 
• Off-site improvements, such as an improvement at the Whole Foods/Landmark Drive 
intersection and for the westbound approach at Walmart and Landmark Drive will be 
led by the County at the appropriate time. Transportation impact fees levied to this 
development may help fund these improvements. 
• east access from Junction Commons onto Landmark Drive will create an additional 
egress movement approximately 200’ NW of the Canyon Corner/Landmark Drive 
intersection. This location is near a curvature of Landmark Drive. This access provides an 
additional location for egress and is in very close proximity to the main bicycle and 
pedestrian access from Landmark Drive. While the TIS indicates this should be “stop-
controlled and allow for egress movements only.” The applicant has agreed to restrict 
this as a stop-controlled, right-out egress movements only to improve safety and traﬃc 
ﬂow at this location.  
Parking and Phasing 
The applicant is requesting a parking exception based on principles of shared use, demand 
management, and efficient land use. The proposal’s mixed-use design further supports the 
EXHIBIT C.2
168
exception request by enabling shared parking. Residential, commercial, restaurant, office, and 
retail uses typically generate parking demand at different times of the day and week, reducing 
conflicts and allowing spaces to serve multiple purposes. This “right-sizing” of parking better 
reflects actual demand while maintaining neighborhood character. 
To support the request, the applicant conducted a parking analysis showing that 1,504 spaces 
are sufficient. The analysis, detailed in the “Parking Adjustments” section (pp. 50–52), identifies 
peak parking demand as follows: 
Requirement 
 
Spaces 
 
Notes 
 
Code required 1,651 Based on standard rates 
Shared parking demand 1,331 Peak December weekend 
Proposed supply 1,504 720 surface, 784 structured 
When compared against requirements and projected demand, the proposed supply 
demonstrates sufficiency.  
Parking Phases 
Providing sufficient parking at each phase is also critical to ensuring traffic efficiency and safety. 
The applicant has proposed construction over 7 phases, with additional development and 
parking coming in Phases 3-7. Each phase of the project provides suﬃcient parking to meet 
demand, with spaces located in close proximity to the new developments. This approach avoids 
the creation of unnecessarily large surface lots and distributes parking more evenly across the 
site. 
Snow Storage 
The proposal includes a “Snow Storage Plan” as reflected on p. 12. Snow storage could occupy 
up to 71 stalls temporarily during peak snow season. As July and December are the peak 
parking months, this should rarely conflict with peak parking demands. Staff recommends that 
the applicant relocate any snow storage occurring outside of these designated parking stalls 
shall be off-site at the developer’s expense within 48 hours.  
These findings confirm that the proposed parking supply not only exceeds peak demand but 
also reflects a more efficient, context-sensitive approach to parking provision (Exhibit A.37). 
Transportation Planning Recommendations – Parking and Phasing: 
The following will help ensure that parking is effective and efficient for the development: 
• Provide EV parking distributed throughout the development, approved by the county 
Sustainability team, to include:  
o 10% of total stalls with charging stations  
EXHIBIT C.3
169
o 20% EV-ready (wired for future conversion), as proposed 
• Provide snow storage and snow storage overflow parking as proposed in the “Snow 
Storage Plan” exhibit. Any snow storage occurring outside of these parking stalls shall be 
relocated off-site within 24 hours at the developer’s expense. 
 
Site Circulation and Transit 
The Snyderville Basin Development Code requires that all Master Planned Developments in the 
NMU-1 zone provide a transit center, transportation stops, and/or other improvements 
necessary to mitigate the impacts of the development, “unless otherwise permitted through 
the Master Planned Development process.” The Code further specifies that transit centers shall 
include a building with a waiting area, restrooms, bicycle lockers, and bike racks, while all 
transportation stops must include shelters and bicycle racks. 
Proposal 
• Bus stops are sited in near the roundabout between the upper and lower site areas and 
near the Millennium Pathway along Landmark Drive. 
• Bus stops include waiting area, bike racks, and Summit Bike Share stations. 
• No restrooms are provided as High Valley Transit has determined that nearby publicly 
accessible restrooms in the development are sufficient. 
• Wayfinding signage plan (p. 7) will guide riders to amenities. 
• All residential buildings to include secure indoor bike storage. 
The proposed bus stops and nearby amenities meet the intent of the Transit Center 
requirement. Although restrooms are not included within the facility, High Valley Transit has 
confirmed this is acceptable due to the availability of privately-owned, publicly accessible 
restrooms within the development. The Transit Center’s central location provides convenient 
access for both new on-site residents and surrounding neighborhoods. In addition to bike racks, 
the facility will include a Summit Bike Share station to strengthen multimodal connectivity. All 
residential buildings will provide secure indoor bicycle storage, and public restrooms are 
available nearby as part of neighborhood improvements. To further support access, the 
applicant has submitted a wayfinding signage plan (“Site Circulation,” p. 7) to help transit riders 
easily locate these amenities in compliance with NMU-1 Code requirements. 
Transportation Planning Recommendations – Circulation/Transit 
• The applicant shall provide 45-degree parking with a minimum of 33’ of total parking 
and backup/service drive area between the wheel stop. This will help reduce vehicular 
and bicycle conflicts. This will also need to be approved by the Fire District prior to final 
approvals. 
• Deliveries shall occur at front entrances during off-peak hours to minimize conflicts. 
EXHIBIT C.4
170
• Commission/staff shall review wayfinding signage and phasing during Phase 3, prior to 
new building permits. 
• Applicant shall fund and construct two Summit Bike Share stations (12 docks / 8 bikes 
each): 
o One near the upper roundabout/transit stop 
o One near Landmark Dr./Millennium Trail connection 
o Stations to meet Summit Bike Share design standards (access, power, site prep) 
o Stations to be completed in Phase 3 prior to new building permits 
EXHIBIT C.5
171
MINUTES
SUMMIT COUNTY
Snyderville Basin Planning Commission Meeting
SHELDON RICHINS BUILDING
1885 WEST UTE BOULEVARD, PARK CITY, UT, 84098
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2026
Meeting also conducted via Zoom.
DRAFT
Tyann Mooney
Makena Hawley
Matthew Nagie
Spencer Young
Tim Jeffrey
Eric Sagerman
Lynda Viti
Ray Milliner
Mustapha Osman
Amy Price
Brian Craven
Welcome/Attendance
Work Session (4:31 P.M.)
1) Work Session to discuss and receive direction on proposed
amendments to Chapter 1: Introduction and Chapter 2: Land Use of
the Snyderville Basin General Plan. This item is for discussion and
direction only; no recommendation or action will be taken by the
Planning Commission. Ray Milliner, Principal Planner, Mustapha
Osman County Planner. (4:31 P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Work Session Report February 10, 2026.pdf
Ray Milliner, Principal Planner, introduced amendments to Chapters 1
and 2 of the Snyderville Basin General Plan for work session discussion
and then turned the time over to Planner Mustapha Osman for a brief
presentation of the two chapters. (4:32 P.M.)
172
Mustapha Osman, Planner, introduced the 2026 General Plan for the
Snyderville Basin stating the goal of the plan was to make the planning
process clear, consistent, efficient and predictable. The Chapter 1
Introduction included the history of Snyderville Basin, demographics,
and a population profile. Chapter 2 Land Use included existing
conditions, land use goals, objectives, policies, and strategies, as well
as future use land use maps. (4:33 P.M.)
Commissioners asked questions and provided comments regarding the
proposed amendments to the general plan. A robust discussion followed
covering many items such as climate resiliency, EV infrastructure,
access, town centers, transportation, water, various maps, zone
clarification, and policy 2.3 and entitlements. Planners Milliner and
Mustapha, and Attorney Lynda Viti responded to concerns and
contributed to the discussion. (4:39 P.M.)
Principal Planner Milliner asked for the Commission’s preference on
how to proceed with future work sessions. Commissioners responded to
his question. (5:59 P.M.)
Regular Session (6:04 P.M.)
1) Public comments for items not on the agenda or pending
applications. (6:04 P.M.)
Commission Chair Mooney opened the meeting for public comment at
6:04 p.m.
No one came forward to speak.
Commission Chair Mooney closed the meeting at 6:06 p.m.
2) Approval of Minutes: November 25, 2025, January 13, 2026, and
January 27, 2026. (6:06 P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Draft SBPC Minutes 11.25.25.pdf
Attachment: Draft SBPC Minutes 01.13.26.pdf
Attachment: Draft SBPC Minutes 01.27.26.pdf
Makena Hawley made a motion to approve the minutes dated
November 25, 2025. Spencer Young seconded, and all voted in
favor, (5-0).  Abstain: Eric Sagerman.
Spencer Young made a motion to approve the minutes dated
January 13, 2026. Makena Hawley seconded, and all voted in favor,
(6-0). 
Spencer Young made a motion to approve the minutes dated
January 27, 2026. Matthew Nagie seconded, and all voted in favor,
(4-0).  Abstain: Makena Hawley, Tim Jeffrey.
173
Commission Items (6:07 P.M.)
Commission Chair Mooney reiterated the need to schedule a date for the
Commission retreat.
Director Items (6:07 P.M.)
Principal Planner Milliner provided a preview of agenda items for upcoming
meetings. (6:07 P.M.)
Adjournment (6:09 P.M.)
Makena Hawley made a motion to adjourn. Eric Sagerman seconded, and
all voted in favor, (6-0). 
Meeting minutes and recordings appear at summitcountyutah.gov/meetings. When in
the electronic version of the minutes, clicking on the hyperlinked times takes you to
that spot in the meeting recording.
174