1.
Work Session to discuss and receive direction on proposed amendments to Chapter
3: Housing and Chapter 4: Transportation and Connectivity of the Snyderville Basin
General Plan. This item is for discussion and direction only; no recommendation or
action will be taken by the Planning Commission. 
Ray Milliner, Principal Planner,
Mustapha Osman County Planner. 
1.
Public comments for items not on the agenda or pending applications.
2.
Public Hearing and Possible Recommendation to the County Manager regarding the
proposed Warehouse Condominiums Units A & B Amended. Applicant: 
Alan Taylor.
Administrative Process. 
Project #26-005. 
Laura Kuhrmeyer, County Planner.
3.
Discussion and Possible Action regarding a Plat Amendment application to amend
the lot line shared by Lots 4 (Parcel SL-I-8-4A-AM) and 5 (SL-I-8-5A-AM) of the
Silver Creek Unit I Block 8 subdivision plat, located at 753 E Division St and 7047 N
Pace Pl, Silver Creek, Summit County, UT; Parcels 
SL-I-8-4A-AM and SL-I-8-5A-
AM); Applicant: Randy Jones representing Leitbox Development Group, LLC;
Administrative Process. Project #26-020.
Amir Caus, AICP, Senior Planner. 
4.
Public Hearing and Possible Action regarding a 
Snyderville Basin Development
Code Amendment for Section 10-8-2 (Sign Regulations) and associated Definitions
;
Applicant: Summit County Staff; Legislative Process. Project #26-029.
Amir Caus, AICP, Senior Planner.
AGENDA 
SNYDERVILLE BASIN PLANNING COMMISSION 
Tuesday, March 10, 2026
NOTICE is hereby given that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission will meet
electronically, via Zoom, and at the anchor location of Richins Auditorium
1885 W. Ute Blvd., Park City, UT 84098
(All times listed are general in nature, and are subject to change by the Board Chair)
 
You may attend in person or
 
Join Zoom webinar:
https://summitcountyut.zoom.us/j/98189226475  
OR
To listen by phone only: Dial 1-669-900-9128 or 1-253-215-8782, Webinar ID: 981 8922 6475 
 
4:30 P.M. Work Session
 
Work Session Report March 10, 2026.pdf
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
 
 
Project 26-006 - Warehouse Unit AB Amendment SBPC 3.10.26 Staff Report and Exhibits
 
Silver Creek Unit I Block 8 Lots 4 and 5 Plat Amendment.pdf
1
5.
Approval of Minutes: February 24, 2026.
Snyderville Basin Development Code Amendment - Sign Regulations - Staff Report.pdf
 
Draft SBPC Minutes 02.24.26.pdf
Commission Items
Director Items
Adjourn
To view staff reports available at the end of the Friday before the meeting please visit
www.summitcounty.org.
Individuals needing special accommodations pursuant to the Americans with Disabilities Act regarding this
meeting may contact Vicki Geary, Summit County Community Development Department at (435)336-3123.
2
 Community Development Department 
P.O. Box 128 
60 North Main Street 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
summitcounty.org 
STAFF REPORT 
To: S
nyderville Basin Planning Commission 
From: Ray Milliner, Mustapha Osman 
Date of Meeting: March 10, 2026 
Type of Item:  General Plan Amendment – Work Session 
Process:  Legislative  
Proposal 
The purpose of this work session is to  gather input from the Planning Commission on the overall 
direction, clarity, and intent of Chapters 3 and 4 of the draft General Plan.  
B
ackground 
The Planning Commission has begun its review of the Draft Snyderville Basin General Plan. On 
February 10, the Commission reviewed Chapters 1 and 2 and provided direction to staff. The purpose 
of this work session is to continue that discussion and receive feedback on Chapter 3 (Housing), and 
Chapter 4 (Transportation and Connectivity).  
C
hapter 3 – Housing is a state -mandated element that was recently reviewed and adopted by the 
County Council. Certain policies and strategies are required by State Code and must be included 
verbatim. As a result, staff has not proposed substantive revisions to this chapter. The Commission’s 
review is intended to provide context within the overall plan and ensure consistency with the Basin’s 
broader vision.  
C
hapter 4 – Transportation and Connectivity establishes the policy framework for managing and 
improving the Snyderville Basin’s transportation system in a manner consistent with the Basin’s 
community character and anticipated growth patterns. The chapter emphasizes coordination with 
regional partners and alignment with the County’s Long -Range Transportation Plan and Active 
Transportation Plan. Informed by community feedback, it prioritizes improved connectivity, 
enhanced safety, and expanded multimodal options wh ile focusing on efficient use of existing 
infrastructure.  
R
ecommendation 
Staff recommend the Planning Commission review the proposed Amendments to Chapters 1 and 2 
of the Snyderville Basin General Plan and provide staff with direction.  
E
xhibits 
A: Draft chapters 3 and 4 of the Snyderville Basin General Plan 
3
Chapter 3: Housing  
IN
TRODUCTION 
Rather than being monolithic, moderate-income housing is a multifaceted challenge for Summit County. 
It is tied closely to a variety of Snyderville Basin challenges including extremely high median housing costs; 
traffic congestion and legacy transportation  issues; availability of sufficient local laborers; business 
challenges due to lack of access to labor; an increasingly non- diverse community; a shrinking number of 
full- time residents with long -term community and generational ties; increasing environment al 
degradation due to increasing development pressures; concerns about sustainability of air, land, and 
water natural resources; and the critical need to manage and limit rapid growth in a County that seeks to 
preserve open spaces, agricultural and cultural heritage (collectively, “Critical Concerns”). Accordingly, 
creating standards and strategies concerning moderate -income housing in this Chapter would be 
incomplete, ineffective, and potentially harmful to the vision and goals of this General Plan as well as the 
County Council’s vision, values, and strategic goals without carefully evaluating the impacts of any such 
standards and strategies on the Critical Concerns to determine if they will aggravate or mitigate and 
provide solutions to those Critical Concerns. All such standards and strategies and the Critical Concerns 
should continually be evaluated given the dynamic nature of growth in and on the borders of the County. 
 
T
he Summit County Manager, relevant staff as determined by the County Manager, and the County 
Council should regularly assess the County’s moderate -income housing needs and seek to articulate 
where such housing is most appropriate and for whom the need is greatest at any given moment always 
taking into careful consideration the Critical Concerns (“Moderate -Income Housing Assessment”). A 
priority of any such assessment should seek to identify if housing challenges are creating significant labor 
shortages in critical areas such as law enforcement, emergency medical services, education, doctors and 
nurses and other health care professionals, and local government workforce. In addition, the Moderate -
Income Housing Assessment should examine the needs of long-term  resident seniors seeking to age in 
place in the County, vulnerable populations, as well as the County’s tourism industry’s workforce. With 
respect to tourism workforce, any strategies developed in this Chapter 6.1 should seek to require major 
employers to bear some of the burden of providing employees with housing opportunities as well as 
reasonable wages that take into account the high housing costs in resort counties much like the difference 
in wages paid in rural Utah compared to San Francisco, California. 
 
E
xternal influences also need to be part of the Moderate -Income Housing Assessment, such as whether 
nightly rentals are removing long -term housing from the available housing capacity with a result of 
hollowing out formerly well- established neighborhoods, p articularly outside of resort cores. Such 
assessment should consider any moderate-income housing permitted, platted, commenced and/or built 
since the prior Moderate-Income Housing Assessment. Careful consideration of where to locate housing 
is a fundamental question the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment needs to examine in each instance 
with a focus on Critical Concerns. For example, building or incentivizing affordable housing in the 
Snyderville Basin for  County workforce that work primarily in County offices in Coalville requires 
commuting, which the moderate -income housing plan should  seek to reduce. In addition, approving a 
large ratio of market rate housing to obtain a smaller ratio of affordable housing  exacerbates the dearth 
of affordable housing given the  additional services and workers  required to service the market rate 
housing, and should be avoided.  
4
The critical questions of each Moderate -Income Housing Assessment should  include: for whom, ideal 
location(s), transit and transportation access, trails access, and access to services to reduce commuting 
and car trips, as well an assessment of the state of each of the Critical Concerns. Those preparing the 
Moderate-Income Housing Assessment need to include specific metrics that are transparent, effective, 
and easy to understand that can be used to provide of positive or negative impacts that may be used by 
the County to adjust the goals and strategies contained in this Chapter 6.1. 
 
 
With respect to any and all analyses and changes to land use regulations contained in this Chapter 6.1, 
the County should carefully consider the positive and negative impacts on each of the Critical Concerns to 
make sure any such changes are likely to redu ce deficits identified in the Moderate -Income Housing 
Assessment and do not result in unintended consequences that negatively impact the Critical Concerns.  
Moderate income housing is defined as: “Housing occupied or reserved for occupancy by households with 
a gross household income equal to or less than 80% of the median gross income for households of the 
same size in the county in which the housing is locate d.” However, given that the median gross income 
for the County is substantially higher than the national average, consideration should be given to requiring 
moderate-income housing that is targeted to lower median gross income depending upon the intended 
solutions sought as identified in the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment.  
 
GOAL: Provide moderate-income housing opportunities that address the moderate -income housing 
needs identified in the Moderate -Income Housing Assessment, as updated in accordance with the 
Introduction of this Chapter. Due to already aggressive market rate housing growth pressures, it is 
essential that moderate -income housing does not come as a trade -off for additional market rate 
housing that may ultimately increase the moderate -income housing deficit due to the additional 
impacts created by the market rate housing and coincident infrastructure, services, and other needs 
that generate requirements for additional workforce. The primary goal should be meaningful 
reductions in existing deficits identified in the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment.   
 
OBJECTIVE A: Develop strategies to facilitate an adequate supply of moderate-income housing to reduce 
the identified deficits of housing in the Snyderville Basin for various moderate-  and low-income groups 
living, working, or desiring to work in the Snyderville Basin, all as identified and prioritized in the 
Moderate-Income Housing Assessment, as updated, while minimizing negative impacts on the Critical 
Concerns.  
 
 
The County shall measure demand and the County’s progress toward meeting such demand through 
annual reporting, consistent with the requirements of Utah law.  
 
GOAL: Rezone for densities necessary to  facilitate the production of moderate-income housing. (Utah 
Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(A))  
 
  Policy 3.1: Identify and implement a wide range of strategies to increase housing   
 densities and diversity in appropriate locations. Implementation measures are as follows:   
 
Implementation Measure 3.1a: Annually review, and amend as necessary, the 
Development Code moderate income housing provisions relating to the Neighborhood 
Mixed Use Zone, Town Center Zone, and Resort Center Zone as necessary to meet the 
goals and strategies of this Chapter.  
 
5
Implementation Measure 3.1b: Commence a study to determine the    
suitability of using one or a portion of various County owned properties for moderate 
income housing, within wo years of approval of the Moderate-Income Housing Plan, to 
meet specific needs and deficits identified in the Moderate- Income Housing Assessment. 
Such study should take into consideration the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment as 
well as other important County needs and uses for such properties.  Properties found 
suitable and  appropriate for  moderate income housing development should be 
considered for moderate income housing to meet deficits  identified in the Moderate-
Income Housing Assessment but in all instances any study must make findings concerning 
the impacts on Critical Concerns. No County property acquired as public open space or on 
which conservation assessments have been granted shall be considered for the purposes 
contemplated herein.   
 
Implementation Measure 3.1c: Annually review the current mixed -use zoning and 
density to determine whether the Moderate- Income Housing Assessment indicates that 
additional zones or rezones for higher density or moderate income residential 
development in commercial or mixed-use zones, commercial centers, or employment 
centers re required to achieve the purposes of this Section 3.1. 
 
 
Implementation Measure 3.1d: Annually, after the approval of the Summit County 
Moderate Income Housing Plan by the State of Utah, the Planning Commission should:  
 
1) Review the General Plan to identify, plan, and possibly create additional 
neighborhood master planned development and/or redevelopment areas, if and 
as necessary, to relieve deficits identified in the Moderate - Income Housing 
Assessment, as updated, in acc ordance with this Chapter 3.1, and thereafter 
amend the General Plan accordingly. Note that such review should  take into 
account such areas that the County has already identified in the Snyderville Basin 
as well as in Eastern Summit County; and
 
2) Review the Future Land Use Maps in Chapter 9 of the General Plan to identify and 
define specific densities that would be  appropriate in  mixed use areas 
to facilitate the deficits identified in the Moderate- Income Housing Assessment 
with careful considerat ion of negative and positive impacts on the Critical 
Concerns.   
 
Implementation Measure 3.1e: Within two years of the approval of the Summit County 
Moderate Income Housing Plan by the State of Utah, the Planning Commission should 
prepare and submit to the County Council an analysis of the benefits of creating a 
moderate income housing zone district to address the deficits identified in the Moderate-
Income Housing Assessment, with careful consideration of negative and positive impacts 
on the Critical Concerns as a critical part of such analysis. 
 
 
Policy 3.2:  Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income  residential development in 
commercial or mixed -use zones commercial centers, or employment centers. (Utah Code § 17 -
27a-403(2)(b)ii(F))  
 
 
Implementation Measure 3.2a: Upon completion of “Our Summit”, a community 
visioning project, completed in 2024, the Planning Commission will review and update, if 
6
necessary, the General Plan Future Land Use Maps and identify specific rezone areas as 
well as opportunities to create additional mixed use zones.   
 
Implementation Measure 3.2b: Continue to regularly review, and amend as necessary, 
the comprehensive long range Snyderville Basin Transportation Master Plan.  
 
 
Policy 3.3: Demonstrate implementation of any other program or strategy to address the housing 
needs of residents of the county who earn less than 80% of the area median income, including 
the dedication of a local funding source to moderate income housing or the adop tion of a land 
use ordinance that requires 10% or more of new residential development in a residential zone be 
dedicated to moderate income housing. (Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(W)) 
 
 
Implementation Measure 3.3a: Annually review the Affordable Housing chapter of the 
Development Code and amend, if necessary, to ensure affordable housing best practices 
are implemented. Maintain the requirement that all new residential development  be 
required to develop or ensure the development of moderate income housing at a rate of 
twenty percent (20%) of the units in a development. The  moderate income  housing 
obligation shall continue to be met concurrently with the construction of market rate 
units.  
 
Policy 3.4: Require commercial, industrial, and resort projects to provide housing for a percentage 
of their projected workforce.  
 
 
Policy 3.5: Require a long-term commitment to affordability.  
 
 
Policy 3.6:  Ratify a joint acquisition agreement with another local political subdivision for the 
purpose of combining resources to acquire property for moderate income housing. (Utah Code § 
17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(T))  
 
 
Implementation Measure 3.6a : Facilitate discussions with local political subdivisions to 
enter into a joint agreement within two years.  
 
 
Implementation Measure 3.6b: Within two years, coordinate with local political 
subdivisions to accurately assess regional moderate income housing needs, including a 
regional employment study. 
 
 
Implementation Measure 3.6c: Annually, coordinate with local political subdivisions in 
the development and implementation of regional moderate income housing strategies.  
 
Implementation Measure3.6d: Within one year, coordinate with local political 
subdivisions to  identify local, state, and federal funding sources to create moderate 
income housing through a regional housing authority or other forms of cooperation.  
 
 
Policy 3.7: Explore the creation of a Summit County Housing Authority and/or regional housing 
authority.  
 
 
7
Implementation Measure  3.7a: Within one year, begin discussions with the   
 Summit County Council regarding the creation of a Summit County Housing  
 Authority and/or regional housing authority.  
 
Policy 3.8: Incorporate the definition of “Middle Income Housing” in the Development Code and 
other policy documents.   
 
Policy 3.9:  Beginning in 2024, conduct a biennial review of Chapter 5, Affordable Housing, 
Development Code and update the County’s inclusionary housing ordinance as necessary.   
 
Policy 3.10: Develop and implement measures that hold developers of moderate income housing 
strategies accountable for the implementation of their strategies, actions, and results. Monitoring 
must be transparent with clear, easily understood metrics that enable the de velopers, elected 
officials, and the public to easily understand if and how progress is being made in implementing 
the strategy.  
 
 
Implementation Measure 3.10a: Require developers of moderate-income housing to file 
annual reports with  reasonably detailed  criteria that reports the compliance with 
applicable deed restrictions; create penalties for failure to  comply with  such deed 
restrictions and related enforcement mechanisms.  
 
Implementation Measure 3.10b: Create land use regulations that prohibit nightly rentals 
of any housing units that are created using any  moderate-income housing incentives 
or pursuant to  land use regulations created, amended, or  modified to facilitate the 
creation of moderate-income housing.  
 
 
Implementation Measure 3.10c  Following receipt of the Annual Moderate Income 
Housing Reporting Form, establish a stakeholder committee that meets annually with the 
purpose of adopting and  monitoring specific measures to be used when evaluating 
moderate income housing projects.  
 
 
Implementation Measure 3.10d: Develop and implement a public engagement program 
to communicate, educate, and collaboratively problem solve issues related to creating 
moderate income housing in appropriate areas.  
 
 
Implementation Measure 3.10e: Annually report the County’s progress toward meeting 
the moderate income housing demand as required by Utah law. 
 
 
Implementation Measure 3.10f: Annually review the number of moderate-income units 
entitled, permitted, and constructed against the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment, 
as updated.  
 
 
Policy 3.11:  Support a variety of  housing consisting of a balance of types of housing, styles of 
housing, ownership category, unit sizes, and a range of affordability.  
 
  
Policy 3.12: Implement zoning incentives for moderate income units in new developments.  
(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(J))   
  
8
Implementation Measure 3.12a: Amend the Development Code, within two years, to 
incentivize the creation of  moderate income  housing units such as increased building 
height, reduced setbacks, reduced parking standards, and expedited 
building permit reviews.  
 
Implementation Measure 3.12b: Maintain the incentive community benefit criteria for 
incentive zoning for deed restricted moderate income housing in the Town Center and 
Resort Center zone districts. 
 
 
Implementation Measure 3.12c: Amend the Development Code, within two years, to 
incentivize the creation of deed restricted affordable senior living communities for 
residents that are 55 years old or older.  
 
Policy 3.13: Amend land use regulations to allow for single room occupancy developments. (Utah 
Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(I))   
 
Implementation Measure 3.13a: Amend the Development Code in 2024 to allow for the 
development of Single Room Occupancy (SRO) housing, group homes, community 
housing, emergency shelter and transitional housing, and supported living facilities for 
the elderly and persons with special housing needs in residential zone districts, taking into 
consideration the proximity to public transportation, shopping, medical services, and 
other essential support services.   
 
 
Policy 3.14:  Allow the development of seasonal housing to address the needs of the resort 
 economy, through cooperation with current and future employes and housing agencies in  
 the area. 
 
 
Policy 3.15:  Demonstrate creation of, or participation in, a community land trust program for 
moderate income housing.(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(M))  
 
 
Implementation Measure 3.15a: Annually meet with local non- profit organizations who 
support the creation of and intend to ensure the long-term affordability moderate income 
housing to  establish on-going cooperation and coordination and 
to maintain public/private partnerships. 
 
 
Implementation Measure 3.15b: Establish a stakeholder committee, within one 
year, comprised of local governments, community housing agencies, and residents 
to establish numerical goals and associated milestones to track and  monitor progress of 
creating moderate income housing and to uncover shortfalls. 
 
 
Policy 3.16:  Identify and utilize county general fund subsidies or other sources of revenue to 
waive construction related fees that are otherwise generally imposed by the County for the 
construction or rehabilitation of moderate income housing. (Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(D))  
 
 
Implementation Measure 3.16a: Maintain, and annually review, and amend as 
necessary, Development Code provisions  regarding fee waivers for moderate income 
housing units.   
9
Implementation Measure 3.17b: Maintain, and annually review, and amend as 
necessary, the fee in lieu of constructing moderate income housing  established in the 
Development Code.   
 
Implementation Measure 3.18c: Amend the Development Code, within one year, to 
allow fees in lieu that have been collected to subsidize construction related fees for 
moderate income housing on private property.  
 
GOAL: Support strategies that allow persons with moderate and low incomes to  benefit from and 
fully participate in all aspects of neighborhood and community life. 
 
 
Policy 3.17: Encourage in-fill housing development in mixed use areas that offer residents easy 
access to goods, services, jobs, transportation, and recreation. 
 
 
Policy 3.18: Encourage and incentivize the distribution of workforce housing in the Snyderville 
Basin.  
 
Policy 3.19: Create a housing and transit reinvestment zone (HTRZ) pursuant to Title 63N, Chapter 
3, Part 6, Housing and Transit Reinvestment Zone Act. (Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(Q))   
 
Implementation Measure 3.19a: Hold community public hearings to acquire input in the 
criteria that the County should consider in selecting a HTRZ within one year. 
 
 
Implementation Measure 3.19b: Amend the General Plan and Development Code to 
codify HTRZ criteria and  establish zones where HTRZs are allowed within one year after 
the community public hearings are closed. 
 
 
Implementation Measure 3.19c: Establish a development permit application process for 
projects in the HTRZ within one year after the community public hearings are closed.  
 
  
  
10
Chapter 4:  
Transportation and Connectivity   
 
The Transportation and Connectivity Element establishes the framework for planning and maintaining a 
safe, efficient, and connected transportation system within the Snyderville Basin. It provides policy 
direction for road, transit, bicycle and pedestrian facilities, and emerging mobility options to support the 
movement of people and goods while promoting community livability, environmental stewardship, and 
economic vitality.  
 
This Element works in coordination with  Summit County’s Long- Range Transportation Plan and Active 
Transportation Plan. While those plans provide technical analysis, capital planning, and implementation 
guidance, this Element  sets the overarching policy direction to ensure that transportation investments 
align with the land use vision and growth patters identified in this General Plan. Integrating transportation 
and land use planning is essential to supporting a resilient and efficient system over time.  
 
The Snyderville Basin’s transportation network reflects its role as both a residential community and a 
regional destination. Travel demand is influenced by tourism commuter patterns and daily service needs, 
with significant traffic concentrated along key corridors and around Kimball Junction. Mountainous 
terrain, preserved open space, and historic development patterns limit roa dway connections between 
some neighborhoods, creating both challenges and opportunities for improved connectivity.  
 
The Basin benefits from an expanding transit system, a well- established active transportation network, 
and regional partnerships that support mobility options beyond  single-occupancy vehicles. Continued 
coordination between transportation planning and land use decisions  will be essential to improving 
system efficiency, enhancing neighborhood  connectivity, and supporting fut ure growth in a manner 
consistent with community values.  
 
CONTEXT 
 
The Snyderville Basin’s transportation network reflects its unique role as both a residential community 
and a regional recreation gateway. Interstate 80 forms a primary regional access  corridor along the 
northern portion of the Basin, while State Routes 224 and 248 carry the majority of local and visitor traffic 
between residential neighborhoods, Kimball Junction, Park City, and resort destinations. Kimball Junction 
functions as a central commercial and mobility hub where regional, commuter, and local travel patterns 
intersect.  
 
The Basin’s roadway system developed incrementally through subdivision approvals and development 
agreements, resulting in limited direct connections between some neighborhoods. Mountainous terrain, 
preserved open space, and environmentally sensitive lands further constrain opportunities for new 
roadway links. As a result, traffic is concentrated along a small number of key corridors, particularly during 
peak commuting periods and high visitation seasons.  
 
Transportation demand is influenced by resident commuting, workforce travel, visitor activity, and 
regional through-traffic. Seasonal fluctuations significantly affect corridor performance, especially along 
State Roads 224 and 248 and within the Kimball Junction area. These dynamics underscore the importance 
11
of coordinating land use decisions with transportation planning to improve system efficiency and manage 
congestion.  
 
The Basin benefits from an expanding transit system operated by High Valley Transit and a well-
established active transportation network that connects neighborhoods, schools, commercial areas, and 
recreation destinations. Continued coordination with the Utah Department of Transportation , Park City 
Municipal, transit providers, and regional partners is essential to improving connectivity, enhancing 
safety, and supporting future growth with community goals.  
 
Existing Conditions  
Map of major roads and levels of service 
Transit Lines & Ridership Statistics 
Bus Routes  
Park and Ride Facilities  
Bike Routes can be found in the Summit County Active Transportation Plan 
Long Range Transportation Plan 2022-2050 
 
The Snyderville Basin’s transportation system is structured around a limited number of primary corridors, 
including Interstate 80 and State Routes 224 and 248. These facilities carry the majority of resident, 
commuter, and visitor traﬃc and experience the highest levels of congestion during peak travel periods 
and seasonal visitation. Traﬃc conditions along these corridors are commonly evaluated using Level of 
Service (LOS), a measure of roadway performance that ranges from free-ﬂow conditions (Level A) to 
heavily congested or failing conditions (Level F). 
 
Transit service within the Basin is provided by High Valley Transit, which operates ﬁxed-route service, 
commuter connections, neighborhood shuttles, and regional routes linking Kimball Junction, residential 
areas, Park City, and Salt Lake County. Ridership has grown since inception, reﬂecting increased demand 
for alternatives to single occupancy vehicle travel.  
 
The Basin is also served by an established and expanding active transportation network, including multi-
use trails, bike routes, sidewalks, and regional pathway connections. These facilities provide important 
connections between neighborhoods, schools, commercial centers, transit stops, and recreation 
destinations. However, gaps remain in some areas, particularly where terrain, roadway design, or 
development patterns limit connectivity.  
 
Community engagement highlighted transportation as a central quality-of-life issue. Traﬃc congestion 
was identiﬁed as one of the most signiﬁcant community concerns, second only to natural areas. While 
the majority of residents currently rely on single-occupancy vehicles for daily travel, survey results 
indicate strong interest in expanded transit service, improved walkability, and greater opportunities to 
bicycle within the community. These themes underscore the importance of continued investment in 
multimodal transportation options and thoughtful coordination between land use and mobility planning.  
 
Transportation Goals, Objectives, Policies and Strategies  
 
GOAL: Promote a safe, efficient, and connected transportation system that provides a variety of 
mobility options, reduces reliance on single-occupancy vehicles, and supports the Basin’s land use 
vision and community character.  
12
 
OBJECTIVE A: Expand and enhance, multimodal transportation options that are safe, reliable, 
and convenient. 
 
Policy 4.1: Support a Multimodal Transportation System. Plan and maintain a 
transportation network that accommodates vehicles, public transit, pedestrians, 
bicyclists, equestrians where appropriate, and emerging mobility options.  
 
Strategy 4.1.1: Coordinate transportation improvements with the Long-Range 
Transportation Plan and Active Transportation Plan: 
Strategy 4.1.2: Partner with High Valley Transit to identify service gaps and 
prioritize service expansions. 
 
Policy 4.2: Strengthen active transportation connectivity. Encourage development and 
expansion of pedestrian, bicycle, and trail networks that connect neighborhoods, 
commercial areas, schools, recreation areas, and transit facilities.  
 
Strategy 4.2.1: Coordinate with the Snyderville Basin Special Recreation District 
and regional partners to expand and maintain trail corridors.  
 
Strategy 4.2.2: Encourage integration of active transportation facilities into new 
development and redevelopment projects.  
 
OBJECTIVE B: Improve system performance and manage congestion through strategic 
infrastructure investment and transportation demand strategies.  
 
Policy 4.3: Prioritize efficient use of existing infrastructure. Maximize the performance 
of existing transportation infrastructure through operational improvements, demand 
management strategies, and targeted system upgrades before expanding roadway 
capacity.  
 
Strategy 4.3.1: Support development of congestion management tools and 
corridor improvement strategies.  
 
Strategy 4.3.2: Evaluate opportunities to improve transit access, intersection 
performance, and roadway operations before constructing new roadways.  
 
Policy 4.4: Support transportation demand management. Encourage strategies that 
reduce vehicle trips and peak period congestion.  
 
Strategy 4.4.1: Support Park and ride facilities and transit hubs at appropriate 
regional locations.  
 
Strategy 4.4.2: Encourage employer-based carpooling, rideshare, and flexible 
work programs. 
 
Strategy 4.4.3: Support mobility planning for special events and high-traffic 
destinations.  
13
 
Policy 4.5: Improve corridor mobility and safety. Plan roadway improvements and 
access management strategies that improve mobility, safety, and system efficiency 
along major transportation corridors.  
 
Objective C: Design transportation facilities that are safe, accessible, and integrated with 
surrounding land uses.  
 
Policy 4.6: Promote complete streets principles. Design and retrofit streets to safely 
accommodate all users, including pedestrians, bicyclists, transit riders, motorists, and 
other appropriate users.  
 
Strategy 4.6.1: Incorporate multimodal design standards into transportation 
and development review processes.  
 
Strategy 4.6.2: Prioritize improvements that enhance safety and accessibility for 
all users.  
 
Policy 4.7: Integrate transportation with community design. Design transportation 
facilities to support neighborhood character, social interaction, and community 
connectivity rather than functioning solely as vehicle corridors. 
 
Policy 4.8: Improve wayfinding and user navigation.  Support coordinated wayfinding 
systems that assist residents and visitors in navigating vehicular, transit, and active 
transportation networks.   
 
Strategy 4.8.1: Encourage development of coordinated signs and navigation 
systems that improve user experience and safety.  
 
Policy 4.9: Support traffic calming and context-sensitive design. Encourage traffic 
calming measures and roadway designs that promote appropriate travel speeds and 
improve safety in residential and mixed-use areas.  
 
Objective D: Align transportation infrastructure with land use patterns to support compact, 
connected and walkable development.  
 
Policy 4.10: Promote interconnected developments. Require new development to 
provide street, trail, and pedestrian connections to adjacent neighborhoods, commercial 
areas, transit facilities and community destinations.  
 
Strategy 4.10.1: Encourage street and pathway connectivity between 
subdivisions and adjacent properties.  
Strategy 4.10.2: Identify and prioritize key pedestrian and bicycle connection 
corridors.  
 
Policy 4.11: Encourage walkable development patterns. Encourage street networks, 
block lengths, and intersection spacing that support safe and convenient pedestrian 
movement.  
14
 
Policy 4.12: Incorporate transit into major development. Encourage integration of 
transit facilities and transit-supportive design into major development and 
redevelopment projects.  
 
Policy 4.13: Expand safe routes to schools and community destinations. Support 
partnerships to expand safe and accessible routes for students and residents. 
 
Strategy 4.13.1: Coordinate with schools, recreation providers, and community 
organizations to identify and prioritize safe route improvements.  
 
Objective E: Coordinate transportation planning across jurisdictions and agencies. 
 
Policy 4.14: Support regional transportation collaboration. Coordinate with UDOT, Park 
City Municipal, Wasatch County, Salt Lake County, High Valley Transit, and other 
partners to improve regional transportation connectivity and efficiency. 
 
Policy 4.15: Integrate transportation and recreation networks. Coordinate 
transportation and trail systems that serve both recreation and transportation purposes.  
 
Strategy 4.15.1: Partner with the Snyderville Basin Special Recreation District 
and regional partners to align transportation and recreation planning efforts.  
15
 Community Development Department 
P.O. Box 128 
60 North Main Street 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
summitcountyutah.gov 
 
  
 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
To:   Snyderville Basin Planning Commission   
From:   Laura Kuhrmeyer, County Planer 
Date of Meeting: March 10, 2026 
Type of Item:  Condominium Plat - Public Hearing, Possible Recommendation 
Process:  Administrative Review 
File #:   26-005 
 
 
 
Project Description 
Project Name: Warehouse Condominiums Units A & B Amended 
Applicant(s):    Alan Taylor 
Property Owner(s):   Work PCU LLC 
Location:    4413 N Forestdale Drive, Units A & B 
Zone District: Service Commercial (SC), Lower Silver Creek Soils Overlay 
Zone  
Parcel Number and Size:   WHC-A and WHC-B 
Type of Process:   Administrative Review 
Final Land Use Authority:  County Manager 
 
Proposal 
The applicant is requesting to combine Units A and B and subsequently add a second level 
throughout. The addition will not increase the height of the building. The combined Unit will be 
approximately 5,614 square feet. The new level will be located between the existing first level 
and the existing roof and will add approximately 5,287 square feet to the total square footage.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16
 
 
Vicinity Map 
 
 
 
Background 
The Warehouse Condominiums Plat was recorded on April 7, 2025 (Exhibit C). The 
condominiums are subject to the Park City Business Center Development Agreement.  
 
The existing Low Impact Permit for this building approved the following Uses on the property: 
 
1. Auto Repair, Service and Detailing 
2. General Office 
3. Restaurant, Deli or Take out intended to serve a neighborhood 
4. Retail Sales Associated with Service Commercial 
5. Warehousing and Distribution, General 
6. Storage, Vehicle 
 
In reviewing the Low Impact Permit, the building was found to comply with the 32’ maximum 
height requirement and all other requirements in the Snyderville Basin Development Code and 
the Park City Business Center Development Agreement. The shell of the building has already 
17
 
 
been constructed and the only proposed change at this time is adding a second level within the 
Unit’s existing building envelope. No changes to the outside of the building are proposed at this 
time.  
 
On May 15, 2025, the Summit County Community Development Department received a 
complete application for a commercial Condominium Plat Amendment to Units A and B of the 
Warehouse Condominiums. The applicant is requesting to combine the two units and 
subsequently add a level between the existing first level and the existing roof. This level would 
add approximately 5,287 square feet to the combined Unit, bringing the total gross square 
footage of combined Unit up to 10,901 square feet. 
 
Analysis and Findings 
The Snyderville Basin Development Code (Code) defines Condominium as “any structure which 
has been submitted to condominium ownership under the provisions of the Utah condominium 
ownership act, whether for residential, nonresidential, and any other use”. Condominium Plats 
are recommended by the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission (SBPC) to the Summit County 
Manager after a public hearing. The SBPC may recommend that the County Manager approve, 
approve with conditions, or deny a Condominium Plat based upon written findings of fact 
according to each of the applicable standards. 
 
The Code does not contain standards for approval of a condo plat; however, Utah State Code 
requires that Condominium Plats be recorded with the associated Covenants, Conditions, and 
Restrictions for the development. These documents have been provided to Staff and are 
included as Exhibit B.  
 
Additionally, the Service Commercial (SC) Zone does not include density requirements for 
commercial uses. Staff and service providers have reviewed the application and have found 
compliance with all applicable codes. 
 
Public Notice, Meetings and Comments  
This item was noticed as a public hearing and possible recommendation for the proposed 
Warehouse Condominiums Units A & B Amended, in the Park Record. Postcard courtesy notices 
were also mailed to property owners within 1,000 feet of the property.  
 
Recommendation 
Staff recommends that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission (SBPC) review the proposed 
Warehouse Condominium Unit s A & B Amended, conduct a public hearing and forward a 
positive recommendation to the County Manager, pursuant to the Findings of Fact, Conclusions 
of Law, and Conditions of Approval found in this Staff Report. The County Manager is the final 
Land Use Authority for Condominium Plats. 
 
 
18
 
 
Findings of Fact: 
1. The Warehouse Condominiums Plat was recorded on April 7, 2025 (Entry #1233861). 
2. The Condominiums are located within the Service Commercial (SC) Zone and the Lower 
Silver Creek Soils Overlay Zone.  
3. The Condominiums are subject to the Park City Business Center Development 
Agreement.  
4. On January 28, 2026, the Summit County Community Development Department 
received a complete application for a commercial Condominium Plat Amendment to 
Units A & B of the Warehouse Condominiums, located at 4413 N Forestdale Drive. 
5. Units A & B are owned by PWG properties LLC. 
6. The applicant for this proposal is Alan Taylor. 
7. The existing Low Impact Permit for this building approved the following Uses on the 
property: Auto Repair, Service and Detailing; General Office; Restaurant, Deli or Take 
out intended to serve a neighborhood; Retail Sales Associated with Service Commercial; 
Warehousing and Distribution, General; and Storage, Vehicle. 
8. The shell building was found to comply with the 32’ maximum height requirement and 
all other requirements in the Snyderville Basin Development Code (Code) and the Park 
City Business Center Development Agreement. 
9. The shell of the building has already been constructed, and the proposed amendment 
will combine Units A and B and subsequently add a level between the existing first level 
and the existing roof (i.e. not increasing the height). No changes to the outside of the 
building are proposed at this time.  
10. This proposed second level would add approximately 5,287 square feet to the combined 
Unit, bringing the total gross square footage of combined Unit up to 10,901 square feet. 
11. The Code does not contain standards for approval of a Condominium Plat; however, 
Utah State Code requires that Condominium Plats be recorded with the associated 
Covenants, Conditions, and Restrictions (CC&Rs) for the development.  
12. The CC&Rs have been provided to Staff (Exhibit B).  
13. Staff and service providers reviewed the proposal with all applicable standards and 
found compliance. 
 
Conclusions of Law:  
1. The Proposed Condominium Plat Amendment is consistent with all prior approvals for 
the project.  
2. Approval of the Condominium Plat Amendment will not adversely affect public health, 
safety, and welfare. 
3. The use is compatible with the existing neighborhood character and with the purpose 
provisions of the applicable zone district and will not affect surrounding land uses. 
 
 
 
 
 
19
 
 
Conditions of Approval: 
1. All conditions from Low Impact Permit remain in effect.  
2. Any change in use beyond what was approved in Low Impact Permit Project Number  
17-067 will require review and applicable permits from the Summit County Community 
Development Department.  
3. All necessary service provider requirements shall be addressed prior to the final 
Condominium Plat recordation.  
4. Prior to plat recordation, the Summit County Treasurer shall ensure that all taxes, tax 
notice charges, interest and penalties charged to the property have been paid.  
5. A current title report (dated within 30 days) shall be submitted to the Summit County 
Attorney’s Office prior to obtaining the Attorney’s signature on the final Condominium 
Plat. 
6. The final Condominium Plat recordation documents, including the CC&Rs, shall be in a 
form that is acceptable to the Summit County Attorney’s Office and Recorder’s Office. 
 
 
Attachments  
Exhibit A – Proposed Warehouse Condominiums Units A & B Amended 
Exhibit B – Draft CC&Rs 
Exhibit C – Warehouse Condominium Plat (Entry #1233861) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20
NOT TO SCALESUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
4
LOCATED IN THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 35,TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 4 EAST,SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIANWAREHOUSE CONDOMINIUMS UNITS A & B AMENDEDAMENDING AND CONSOLIDATING UNITS A AND B, WAREHOUSE CONDOMINIUMS
LEGEND
LLC ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
LOCATED IN THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 35,TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 4 EAST, SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIANWAREHOUSE CONDOMINIUMS UNITS A AND BAMENDEDAMENDING AND CONSOLIDATING UNITS A & B, WAREHOUSECONDOMINIUMS
’
FORESTDALE ROAD
57101113
171819202122232425262728303132333435363738394041424344454647484950515253545556575859
29
1236891214
1615626160
WAREHOUSE CONDOMINIUMS UNITS A & B AMENDEDAMENDING AND CONSOLIDATING UNITS A & B, WAREHOUSE CONDOMINIUMS
LLC ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
“” “”
LIENHOLDER CONSENT TO RECORD
LIENHOLDER ACKNOWLEDGEMENTLIENHOLDER ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
* PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYOR *
STATE OF UTAHKAGAN M.DIXONNo. 9061091
03/04/2026
21
UNIT ASCALE: 1" = 50'
SCALE: 1" = 10'
LEVEL 2LEVEL1
LOCATED IN THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 35,TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 4 EAST,SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIANWAREHOUSE CONDOMINIUMS UNITS A & B AMENDEDAMENDING AND CONSOLIDATING UNITS A AND B, WAREHOUSE CONDOMINIUMS
* PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYOR *
STATE OF UTAHKAGAN M.DIXONNo. 9061091
03/04/2026
22
-1- 
DECLARATION OF CONDOMINIUM 
FOR 
WAREHOUSE CONDOMINIUMS 
THIS DECLARATION OF COVENANTS, CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS for 
WAREHOUSE CONDOMINIUM ASSOCIATION, a Utah Non -Profit Corporation (the 
“Declaration”) is made and executed by PWG PROPERTIES, LLC, a Utah Limited Liability 
Company (the “Declarant”) this   day of ________, 2025 pursuant to the provisions of 
Title 57, Chapter 8, Utah Code Annotated, as amended. 
RECITALS 
A. Declarant is the owner of certain real property located in Summit County, Utah, 
more particularly described on Exhibit A attached hereto and incorporated herein 
by reference (the “Land”). 
B. Declarant has constructed one building on the Land (the “Project”) that will include 
six condominium Units, and certain Common Areas and Facilities and Limited 
Common Areas, and desires to provide for preservation of the values and 
improvements in the project, and for the maintenance of the common areas and 
common facilities. To this end, and for the benef it of the property and the owners 
thereof, Declarant desires to subject the property to the easements, covenants, 
conditions, restrictions, charges, and liens set forth in the Declaration. 
C. The Project is known as WAREHOUSE CONDOMINIUMS (“WAREHOUSE 
CONDOS”). 
D. The Project is not a cooperative. 
E. Declarant caused to be prepared a plat for the project under the name of 
WAREHOUSE CONDOMINIUMS, in Summit County, Utah, which describes the 
subdivision of the Land and Project into units and common areas (herein described 
as the “Plat”). 
F. This Declaration is made and recorded against the Land, intended to subject the 
Land to this Declaration and the provisions of the Utah Condominium Ownership 
Act, Title 57, Chapter 8, Utah Code Annotated, as amended (the “Act”). 
 
DECLARATION 
1. DEFINITIONS. Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, certain terms as used in 
this Declaration shall have the meaning set forth in this Section 1. 
1.1. “Act” shall mean the Utah Condominium Ownership Act, Title 57, Chapter 8, Utah 
Code Annotated, as amended. 
23
-2- 
1.2. “Association” shall mean WAREHOUSE Condominiums Association , a Utah 
Non-Profit Corporation, organized for the purposes set forth in this Declaration, as 
amended. 
1.3. “Board of Directors” or “Board” shall mean the persons appointed to manage the 
affairs of the Association under the provisions of Section 11 below. In addition, the 
Board shall be deemed to be the “Management Committee” as described in the 
Act. 
1.4. “Builder” shall mean any person or entity other than Declarant, which shall, in the 
ordinary course of such person's business, construct a building of Units in the 
Project. 
1.5. “Bylaws” shall mean the Bylaws of the Association, as the same may be amended 
from time to time. The Bylaws are located in Section 11 hereof. 
1.6. “Commercial Use” shall mean and refer to limited and light manufacturing (as that 
term is defined by Summit County), distribution, office warehouse, commercial 
retail, or other commercial use allowed by the applicable zoning ordinances. 
1.7. “Common Areas and Facilities ” shall mean all parts of the Land, the Buildings 
and all other improvements included in the Project other than the Units, as set forth 
in Section 5 below. 
1.8. “Condominium(s)” shall mean a Unit and the undivided interest (expressed as a 
percentage of the entire ownership interest) in the Common Areas and Facilities 
appurtenant to such Unit, attached hereto. 
1.9. “Declarant” shall mean PWG PROPERTIES , LLC, a Utah limited liability 
company, or any assignee or successor in interest of PWG PROPERTIES, LLC, 
and as further defined by the Act. 
1.10. “Declaration” shall mean this Declaration of Condominium, and all amendments, 
modifications and supplements hereto. 
1.11. “Land” shall mean the real property described in Exhibit A attached hereto. 
1.12. “Limited Common Areas” shall mean portions of the Common Areas reserved for 
the use of certain Owners to the exclusion of other Owners, as provided in Section 
6 below. 
1.13. “Map” shall mean the record of survey map for the Project recorded in the office 
of the Summit County Recorder. 
1.14. “Member” shall mean an Owner obligated, by virtue of its, his or her Ownership, 
to be a shareholder in the Association and, where the context permits, a 
representative of the Unit Owners serving on the Board of Directors. 
1.15. “Owner(s)” shall mean the person or persons, including Declarant, owning in fee 
24
-3- 
simple, a Condominium  in the Project, as such ownership is shown by the records 
of the County Recorder of Summit County, Utah, and shall be deemed  to be a Unit 
Owner, The then Owner shall not refer to any Mortgagee (unless such Mortgagee 
has acquired tit le for other than security purposes) or to any person or persons 
purchasing a Condominium under contract (until such contract is fully performed 
and legal title conveyed of record). 
1.16. “Project” shall mean the Land, the planned condominium buildings consisting of  
six (6) Units to be constructed on the Land and all other improvements to the Land 
that are submitted to the Act by this Declaration. 
1.17. “Project Documents” shall mean all documents related to the Project including 
without limitation, the Declaration and any amendments thereto and the Map and 
any amendments thereto. 
1.18. “Period of Administrative Control” means the period between the recordation of 
this Declaration and the last of the Transition Event to occur, as the same are more 
particularly described in Section 11.14.2. 
1.19. “Storage” shall mean and refer to the storing,  setting aside, or keeping personal 
property; the act of being stored. 
1.20. “Transition Events” shall mean the events described in Section 11.14.2 below that 
will cause the Class B Membership to change to Class A Memberships. 
1.21. “Unit” shall mean a physical portion of the Project designed for separate ownership 
and occupancy as described in Section 4 below. The number and square footage of 
each Unit is identified on the Plat as amended. 
 
2. SUBMISSION OF THE PROJECT TO THE ACT 
2.1. Declarant, as the owner of the Land, hereby submits the Land, the Buildings and all 
other improvements now or hereafter made in or upon the Land to the provisions of 
the Act and the terms, covenants , and conditions of this Declaration as a 
condominium project. Each and all of the provisions of this Declaration are declared 
and agreed to for the benefit of the Project and in furtherance of a plan for 
improvement of the Project and division thereof into Condominium Units. Each and 
all of the provisions of this Declaration shall be deemed to run with the Land and 
shall be burden and a benefit  to Declarant, and to any person acquiring , leasing or 
owning an interest in the real property and improvements comprising the Project 
and to its respective personal representatives, heirs, successors and assigns. 
2.2. The Project is hereby divided into a Condominium, said Condominium consisting 
of Units and an appurtenant undivided interest in the Common Areas and Facilities. 
 
25
-4- 
3. IMPROVEMENTS.  The Project shall be comprised of two (2) Buildings with designated 
parking and eleven (11) Condominium Units. The principal materials from which the 
Building will be constructed are concrete footings and foundation; metal framing; steel and 
concrete; cement fiber board, wood, concrete, and metal siding ; fire-rated demising walls 
between Unit interiors; TPU roofing membrane;  and such other materials as allowed by 
current building codes. The Building will be supplied with electricity, natural gas, water , 
and sewer service. The Project and surrounding area also consist of Common Areas and 
Facilities, including, but not limited to, roadways, parking, walkways, landscaping , and 
Limited Common Areas. 
 
4. UNITS 
4.1. General Description of Units. The Buildings will contain six (6) Condominium 
Units. Each Unit contains a footprint of approximately between 2,400-19,000 
square feet and an internal height of up to 32 feet, as shown on the Plat Map, with 
the potential for a second. A sample legal description of each Unit is as follows: 
Unit _____, WAREHOUSE CONDOMINIUMS; according to the official 
plat thereof on file in the Summit County Recorder’s Office. 
4.2. Boundaries of Units. Each Unit shall be bounded by the interior surfaces of its 
perimeter and bearing walls, floors, ceilings, windows and window frames, exterior 
doors and door frames, and trim. The Unit shall include all lath, furring, wallboard, 
plasterboard, plaster, paneling, tiles, wallpaper, paint, finished flooring, and any 
other materials constituting any part of its finished surfaces and the exterior surfaces 
so described. All other portions of the walls, floors or ceilings shall be a part of the 
Common Areas and Facilities. In addition, each Unit shall include the following: 
(1) all spaces, non -bearing interior partitions, interior doors and door frames, and 
all other fixtures and improvements within the boundaries of the Unit; (ii) all outlets 
of utility and communications service lines, including, but not limited to power, 
light, gas, hot and cold water, heating, refrigeration, cable television  and telephone,  
within the boundaries of the Unit, but shall not include any part of such lines or. 
ducts themselves; and (iii) all fixtures, and appliances found within the boundary 
walls of the Unit and servicing only that Unit. 
4.3. Upon completion, the walls separating each Unit shall contain insulation for 
temperature and fireproofing, as each may be required by building codes . Owners 
may elect to add any additional legally compliant sound barriers or soundproofing 
they choose. The Board or Association may adopt a rule, pursuant to Section 10.11, 
to regulate unreasonable noise caused by any Owner of a Unit or tenant of an Owner 
residing in a Unit. Without the prior written consent of the Board of Directors, no 
Unit shall be altered i n any manner that would increase sound transmissions, 
resonances, or reverberations to any adjoining Unit, including, but not limited to, 
the replacement, modification or penetration of any flooring or floor covering, 
ceiling or wall or the penetration of any wall, floor or ceiling that increases sound 
transmissions, resonances, or reverberations to any other Unit. 
26
-5- 
4.3.1. Noise and Outdoor Activities. Loud noise emanating from sources in  
Units, including but not limited to music, partying, dancing, musical 
instruments, persons, pets, animals, stereo or other entertainment 
equipment, are prohibited between the  hours of 10:00 p .m. and 8:00  
a.m. On Friday and Saturdays, the Board of Directors may permit 
outdoor entertainment and activities, including but not limited to, 
concerts, outdoor movies, and farmer's markets (with County approval 
if necessary), to take place on the Com mon Areas of the Project. All 
noise emanating from such activities shall cease by Midnight on Friday 
and Saturday nights and shall never be of a volume as to create a public 
nuisance. The Board of Directors may adopt Rules and Regulations to 
more specifically regulate the noise and other impacts that such 
activities will have on the Units. 
4.4. Interior Maintenance of Units. Subject to the provision’s limitations set forth in this 
Declaration, each Owner shall have the exclusive right to paint, repaint, tile , wax, 
paper, carpet, or otherwise decorate the interior surfaces of the walls, ceilings, 
floors, and doors forming the boundaries of such Owner's Unit and the surfaces of 
all walls, ceilings, floors, and doors within such boundaries. Subject to the 
provisions of this Declaration, each Owner shall also have the right, to construct 
partition walls, fixtures, and improvements  within the boundaries of such Owner's 
Unit; provided however, that such partition walls, fixtures, and improvements (a) 
shall comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, and building codes, (b) shall not 
interfere with facilities necessary for the support, use , or enjoyment of any other 
part of the Project or any other Unit, if a shared facility,  (c) shall not impair the 
structural  soundness or integrity of the Building  in which it is located, and (d) shall 
not encroach upon the Common Areas or any part thereof, unless the Board  of 
Directors shall consent in writing to such encroachment.  Exercise of the rights set 
forth in this Section by an Owner of a Unit shall also be subject to such limitations 
as the Board of Directors may adopt. Furthermore, the Board of Directors may 
impose reasonable regulations regarding hours of construction upon the exercise of 
the rights specified in this Section by Owners of Units. Each Owner shall keep the 
interior of its Unit, including without limitation, interior walls, windows, ceilings, 
floors, and permanent fixtures and appurtenances thereto, in a clean and sanitary 
condition and in a state of good repair. In the event that any such Unit shall develop 
an unsanitary or unclean condition  or fall into a state of disrepair, and in the event 
that the Owner of such Unit shall fail to correct such condition or state of disrepair 
within 10 days following written notice from the Board of Directors, the Board of 
Directors on behalf of the Association shall have the right, at the expense of the 
Owner and without liability to the Owner for trespass or otherwise , to enter said 
Unit and correct or eliminate said unsanitary or unclean condition or state of 
disrepair; provided, however, that the Association shall in no event have the 
obligation to correct or eliminate such condition or state of disrepair. Each Unit 
Owner shall maintain adequate temperature in their Unit to avoid freezing pipes or 
other destruction that can harm the Unit and neighboring Units. Each Owner shall 
remain current on all utilities accounts to ensure no interruption in service. 
 
27
-6- 
5. COMMON AREAS AND FACILITIES 
5.1. Common Areas. Unless otherwise provided in this Declaration, the Common Areas 
and Facilities shall constitute in general all of the parts of the Land, the Buildings 
and all other improvements included in the Project except the Units. All Common 
Areas and Facilities (excluding any Limited Common  Areas) shall be for the 
exclusive use of Owners, their guests, and tenants. Without limiting the generality 
of the foregoing, the Common Areas and Facilities shall include the following and 
all repairs and replacements of any of them. 
5.1.1. The Land. 
5.1.2. All structural parts of the Buildings, including the foundation, columns, 
girders, beams, supports , exterior and bearing walls , roofs, halls, 
corridors, stairwells, fire escapes, entrances and exits of the Building, if 
any. 
5.1.3. The roadways, pathways, driveways, fences, grounds, landscaping, 
lawns, shrubs, trees, gardens, parking areas, and recreational facilities, 
if any. 
5.1.4. Installation of all central services such as power, light, gas, hot and cold 
water, heating, air conditioning and ventilation, and all ducts, wires, 
conduits, and other accessories used therewith. 
5.1.5. All other parts of the Project necessary or convenient to its existence, 
maintenance, and safety , or normally in common use, or which have 
been designated as Common Areas and Facilities on the Map or any 
Supplemental Map, excepting only things expressly designated in this 
Declaration as part of Unit or a Limited Common Area. 
 
 
6. LIMITED COMMON AREAS 
6.1. Limited Common Areas are portions of the Common Areas and Facilities reserved 
for the use of certain Owners to the exclusion of other Owners. Unit Owners shall 
be entitled to the exclusive use and occupancy of the Limited Common Areas 
directly associated with their specific Units. The Limited Common Areas include 
those areas designated as such on the Map, and, whether or not so designated on the 
Map, the right to use the Limited Common Areas shall be appurtenant to and 
contingent upon ownership of the Unit or Units associated therewith, and even 
though not specifically mentioned in an instrument of transfer, shall automatically 
pass to the grantee or transferee of such Unit or Units. Such right of use shall not 
be revocable, nor may it be voluntarily or invo luntarily relinquished, waived or 
abandoned. 
 
28
-7- 
7. OWNERSHIP OF COMMON AREAS AND FACILITIES, ALLOCATION OF 
VOTING RIGHTS AND COMMON EXPENSES/COMMON PROFITS 
7.1. Each Unit will be entitled to an equal undivided ownership interest in the Common 
Areas and Facilities. The undivided ownership interest in the Common Areas shall 
be allocated among the Units on a pro rata basis based upon the total number of 
Units. Each Unit's interest in the Common Areas and Facilities shall be inseparable 
from the Unit and any conveyance, encumbrance, judicial sale, or other transfer, 
voluntary or involuntary, of an undivided interest in the Common Areas and 
Facilities and Limited Common  Areas shall be void unless the Unit to which that 
interest is allocated is also transferred. 
7.2. The undivided interest in the Common Areas and Facilities appurtenant to each Unit 
in the Project is listed in Exhibit B. 
7.3. Except as otherwise provided in this Declaration, the undivided interest appurtenant 
to each Unit shall have a permanent character and shall not be altered. 
7.4. Except as otherwise provided in this Declaration, each Owner shall have the 
exclusive right to use and enjoy any Limited Common Areas that may be 
specifically designated for exclusive use by such Owner. 
7.5. The Board of Directors, on behalf of the Association, may enter into leases, 
management agreements, or operating agreements with other parties with respect to 
the Common Areas and Facilities on such terms as it may elect that are not 
otherwise inconsistent with the provisions of this Declaration. 
7.6. Allocation of Voting Rights. Each Unit Owner shall be entitled to vote in the affairs 
of the Association and for the purposes of this Declaration and the Bylaws described 
in Section 11.15 herein. 
7.7. Allocation of Common Expenses/Common Profits. The Common Expenses and any 
Common Profits of the Project shall be allocated to the Owner of each constructed 
and completed Unit according to the allocation of undivided interest of such Unit 
in the Common Areas and Facilities. 
 
8. TITLE TO CONDOMINIUM UNITS 
8.1. Manner of Holding Title to Units. Title to a Unit within the Project may be held or 
owned by any person or entity, or any combination thereof, and in any manner in 
which title to any other real property may be held or owned in the State of Utah. 
8.2. Inseparability. Title to a part of a Unit within the Project may not be separated from 
any other part thereof during the period of ownership, and each Unit, Limited 
Common Area, and the undivided interest in the Common Areas and Facilities 
appurtenant to each, shall always be conveyed, devised, encumbered, and otherwise 
affected only as a complete Unit, together with all appurtenant rights created by law 
29
-8- 
or by this Declaration, including the appurtenant membership in the Association. 
8.3. Units May Not Be Divided. Title to any part of a Unit may not be divided or 
subdivided or a fractional portion thereof sold or conveyed so as to be held in 
divided ownership. Under no circumstances shall interested in a Unit be divided 
into, leased, sold, conveyed, or used as time period of intervals, or sold or conveyed 
to owners or holders for use on a time share basis. No Unit shall be owned by a 
partnership or corporation or unincorporated association for the purposes of 
creating a fraction or divided ownership arrangement or facilitating a time sh are 
arrangement among three or more unrelated individuals. 
8.4. No Partition. The Common Areas and Facilities shall be owned in common by all 
of the Owners, and no Owner may bring any action for partition thereof. 
8.5. Separate Mortgages by Owners. Each Owner shall have the right to encumber its 
interest in a Unit with a Mortgage. However, no Owner shall attempt to or shall 
have the right to mortgage or otherwise encumber the Common Areas and Facilities 
or any part thereof, except the undivided interest therein appurtenant to  its Unit. 
Any Mortgage of any Unit within the Project shall be subordinate to all the 
provisions of this Declaration, and, in the event of foreclosure, the provisions of this 
Declaration shall be bin ding upon any Owner whose title is derived through 
foreclosure, by private power of sale, judicial foreclosure, or otherwise. 
8.6. Separate Taxation. Each Condominium Unit within the Project, including each Unit 
and appurtenant undivided interest in the Common Areas and Facilities, shall be 
deemed to be a parcel for tax purposes, and shall be assessed separately for all taxes, 
assessments, and other charges of the State of Utah or of any political subdivision 
thereof or of any special improvement district or of any other taxing or assessing 
authority. For purposes of such assessment, the valuation of the Common Areas and 
Facilities sha ll be apportioned among the Units in proportion to the undivided 
interests in the Common Areas and Facilities appurtenant to such Units. All such 
taxes, assessments and other charges on each respective Condominium shall be 
separately levied against the Own er thereof. No forfeiture or sale of any 
Condominium for delinquent taxes, assessments, or other governmental charges 
shall divest or in any way affect the title to any other Condominium. 
8.7. Liens. No labor performed or services or materials furnished with the consent of or 
at the request of an Owner may be the basis for the filing of a lien against the Unit 
of any other Owner, or against any part thereof, or against any other property of any 
other Owner, unless the other Owner has expressly consented to or requested the 
performance of such labor or furnishing of such services or materials. Express 
consent shall be deemed to have been given by the Owner in the case of emergency 
repairs thereto. Labor performed or services or materials furnished for the Project, 
if authorized by the Association, and provided for in this Declaration , shall be 
deemed to be performed or furnished with the express consent of each Owner. The 
Owner may remove its Unit from a lien against two or more Units or any part thereof 
by payment to the holder of the lien of the fraction of the total sums secured by such 
lien which is attributable to its Unit. 
30
-9- 
8.8. Description of Condominium Units. Every contract for the sale of Condominium 
Unit and every other instrument affecting title to Condominium Unit within the 
Project may describe a Unit by the name of the Project, the recording date for this 
Declaration, the  county wherein the Project is located and its Unit Number as 
indicated in this Declaration or as shown on the Map. Such description shall be 
construed to describe the Condominium Unit, the Limited Common Area, together 
with the appurtenant undivided inter est in Common Areas and Facilities and to 
incorporate all the rights incident to ownership of a Condominium. Unit within the 
Project and all of the limitations on such ownership as described in this Declaration. 
 
9. EASEMENTS 
9.1. Easements for Maintenance, Cleaning, and Repair. Some of the Common Areas and 
Facilities are or may be located within the Units or may be conveniently accessible 
only through the Units. The Association shall have the irrevocable right to have 
access to each Unit and to all Common Areas and Facilities from time to time during 
such reasonable hours as may be necessary for the maintenance, cleaning, repair, or 
replacement of any Common Areas and Facilities or for making emergency repairs 
at any time therein necessary to prevent damage to the Common Areas and Facilities 
or to any Unit. In addition, the Association or its agents may enter any Unit when 
necessary, in connection with any cleaning, maintenance, repair, replacement, 
landscaping, construction or reconstruction for which the Association is 
responsible. Such entry shall be made with as little inconvenience to the Owners as 
practicable, and any damage cau sed thereby shall be repaired by the Association 
with funds from the Common Expense Fund. 
9.2. Right to Ingress, Egress, and Support. Each Owner shall have the right to ingress 
and egress over, upon, and across the Common Areas and Facilities as necessary 
for access to such Owner's Unit and to any Limited Common Areas appurtenant to 
such Unit, and shall have the right to horizontal, vertical, and lateral support of such 
Unit, and such rights shall be appurtenant to and pass with title to each 
Condominium. 
9.3. Association's Right to Use Common Areas and Facilities. The Association shall 
have an easement to make such use of the Common Areas and Facilities as may be 
necessary or convenient to perform the duties and functions that it is obligated or 
permitted to perform pursuant to this Declaration, including without limitation the 
right to construct and maintain in the Common Areas , Facilities, and when 
necessary, Limited Common Area, facilities for use by Owners generally or by the 
Association and its agents exclusively. 
9.4. Easement for Completion of Project. Declarant shall have a transferable easement 
over and on the Limited Common Areas, Common Areas and Facilities for the 
purpose of completing construction of the Project and making improvements 
therein as shown on the Map, and for the purpose of doing all things reasonably 
necessary or appropriate in connection therewith. The duration of this easement 
31
-10- 
shall be eight (8) years from the date of the recording of this Declaration.  To the 
extent that damage is inflicted on any part of the Project by any person utilizing said 
easement, Declarant and the person causing the damage shall be liable to the 
Association for the prompt repair of such damage. 
9.5. Sales and Management by Declarant. Declarant hereby reserves the right to 
maintain sales offices, management offices, signs advertising the Project, and 
models in any of the Units that it owns or is under contract to purchase or on the 
Common Areas and Facilities of the Project for a period of ten (10) years from the 
recording of this Declaration.  Declarant shall be entitled to utilize, at any one time, 
up to 2 Units that it owns or is under contract to purchase and some or all  of the 
Common Areas and Faci lities as sales offices, management offices, and models 
anywhere in the Project. Declarant may relocate sales offices, management offices 
and models to other Units or Common Areas and Facilities at any time. The 
occupancy requirements and limitations herein shall not apply to Declarant. 
9.6. Easements for Encroachments. If any part of the Limited Common Areas, Common 
Areas and Facilities encroaches or shall hereafter encroach upon any Unit, an 
easement for such encroachment and for the maintenance of the same shall and does 
exist. If any part of a Unit encroaches or shall hereafter encroach upon the Common 
Areas and Facilities, or upon an adjoining Unit, an easement for such encroachment 
and for the maintenance of the same shall and does exist. Encroachments referred 
to herein include, but are not limited to, encroachments caused by error in the 
original construction of the Buildings , or any improvements constructed or to be 
constructed within the Project, by error in the Map, by settling, rising, or shifting of 
the earth, or by changes in position caused by repair or reconstruction of the Project, 
or any part thereof, in accordance with the provisions of this Declaration. 
9.7. Easements Deemed Created. All conveyances of Condominiums within the Project 
hereafter made, whether by Declarant or otherwise, shall be construed to grant and 
reserve such reciprocal easements as are provided herein, even though no specific 
reference to such easements appears in any such conveyance. 
9.8. Declarant's Reservation of Easement. Declarant hereby reserves an easement and 
right of way across, over, under and through the Limited Common Areas, Common 
Areas, and Facilities for purposes of vehicular and pedestrian access to any other 
real property Declarant may own now or in the future which may be adjacent to the 
Project. 
 
 
 
10. RESTRICTIONS ON USE AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW. 
10.1. Primary Uses. Units shall be used and occupied solely in accordance with the 
provisions of this Declaration, and applicable law. Unless specifically, generally or 
conditionally prohibited herein, the Units may be used for such uses as are allowed 
32
-11- 
only in accordance with the zoning and related ordinances of the County of Summit, 
Utah;  
10.2. Specifically Prohibited Uses. No portion of the Property shall be used for any of the 
following uses: automotive storage for profit, motorsports membership clubs , 
automotive-related retail for which an existing use in a Unit already competes with 
such proposed use (e.g. offroad vehicle accessories retailer would not prohibit a on-
road vehicle accessories retailer from operating but would prohibit another offroad 
vehicle accessories retailer (incidental overlapping merchandise shall not disqualify 
a use)) , adult book and/or video store; amusement center; betting parlor; bingo 
parlor; bowling alley; carnival, amusement park, or circus; flea market; tattoo or 
body piercing parlor; gambling establishment; illegal, offensive, or dangerous trade; 
any sexually orie nted business, novelty shop, or store; nude or partially nude 
entertainment; pornographic shop or store; self -service laundry; skating rink; 
telemarketing business; photo processing, meat processing facility; massage parlor 
(other than massage services pro vided in connection with a bona fide health care 
provider, gym, health club, or day spa);  gas station or collision repair shop; bar or 
nightclub of any kind or nature; a heliport; Farm machinery and implements, retail, 
commercial or storage; ammonia, bleaching powder, or chlorine manufacturing; 
asphalt or cement processing, manufacture, or refining; shooting range; blast 
furnace, or cement, lime, or plaster of paris manufacturing; coke ovens and/or 
creosote treatment or manufacturing; disinfectant and inse cticide manufacturing; 
distillation of bones, coal, or wood; fat rendering; fertilizer manufacture, except the 
cold compounding of non-odorous materials; fireworks, explosive manufacture and 
storage; gas manufacture or storage in excess of 10,000 cubic feet; gelatin, glue, or 
size manufacturing; grease or tallow manufacturing or refining; hair factory; 
hydrochloric, nitric, sulphuric, or sulphureous acid manufacturing; storage, 
incineration, or reduction of garbage, offal, or refuse; petroleum refining; pot ash 
manufacturing or refining; raw hides or skins, storage, curing, or tanning; rock 
crushing; smelting of iron, copper, zinc, or tin ores; sugar refining; tar distillation 
or manufacture; tar roofing or tar waterproofing manufacturing; wool pulling, 
scouring or shoddy manufacturing; soap manufacturing; stone mill or quarry, or any 
mineral extraction; sauerkraut manufacturing or pickle factory; paint, oil, etc. 
manufacturing; oxygen manufacturing; junk, vehicle or miscellaneous wrecking or 
storage yard; fee d or cereal mill using power in excess of 50 h.p.; dyeing and 
cleaning establishments; fuel yards; machine shops; mattress factories; sheet metal 
works, manufacturing, and/or storage, or photo processing; 
10.3. Generally Prohibited Uses:  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 
10, no Unit shall be used for: (1) any use resulting in the emission of smoke, fumes, 
odors, gases, vapors, steam, dust, sweepings, dirt, cinders or other particles or 
substances into the atmosphere or which are detectable outside the boundaries of 
such Unit or which may be detrimental to the health, safety, welfare or comfort of 
any Owner or any other person, to the condition of any other portion of the Project, 
or to any vegetation within the Project; (3) any use resulting in the recurrent or 
continuous emission of sound or noise from such Unit which may be heard without 
instruments outside the boundaries of such Unit; (4) any use resulting in the 
discharge of glare or hea t, subsonic or ultrasonic sounds, or atomic, 
33
-12- 
electromagnetic, microwave, ultraviolet, laser or other radiation which is detectable 
from any point exterior to such Unit; (5) any use resulting in recurrent or continuous 
ground vibrations perceptible without instruments at any point exterior to such Unit; 
or (6) any use resulting in the discharge of fluids, gases, solid wastes or other 
harmful materials into any drainage facility or other waterway which may adversely 
affect the health, safety, welfare or comfort of any Owner or other person or the 
condition of any portion of the Project; Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in 
this Section, the Owner of any Unit may request a determination from the Board of 
Directors as to whether a particular use of a Unit is permitted by the provisions of 
this Section and such determination by the Board of Directors shall be binding on 
the Association and all Owners; provided, however, that the Board of Directors 
shall not have authority to permit a variance from the provisions of this Section. No 
Commercial Use may be conducted in any Unit until the Owner or the Owner's 
tenant of such Unit first obtains a parking demand approval letter from the Board 
of Directors and then complies with all permits, licensing, and other Commercial 
Use requirements and conditions impos ed by the applicable governmental 
authority. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section, the Owner of 
any Unit may request a determination from the Board of Directors as to whether a 
particular use of a Unit is permitted by the provisions of this Section and such 
determination by the Board of Directors shall be binding on the Association and all 
Owners; provided, however, that the Board of Directors shall not have authority to 
permit a variance from the provisions of this Section. 
10.4. Conditionally Prohibited Uses: No Owner shall use or occupy or permit the 
Property to be used or occupied in violation of the use restrictions contained in the 
Declaration and Notice of Use Restrictions dated as of the 23rd day of January 2007 
by and between BURBS, L.L.C., a Utah limited liability company and 
FORESTDALE INVESTMENTS L.L.C., a Utah limited liability company, 
namely: 
10.4.1. Except with advance, written, consent of the Board and Intermountain 
Healthcare, in their sole discretion, no person or entity shall use or 
occupy or permit the Property to be used or occupied for a “Prohibited 
Health Care Use” or sell, lease, assign, transfer, or convey the Property 
to a “Prohibited Health Care Provider”. 
10.4.2. A “Prohibited Health Care Use” is any person, entity, association, 
facility, structure, or other arrangement that provides: (i) surgical 
services of any kind or nature to either in -patients or out-patients by or 
under the supervision of physicians, medical  personnel and/or other 
persons or entities, including without limitation surgical centers except 
for basic surgical services, which are exclusively used for the benefit of 
the patients of individual physicians, dentists, or other individual health 
care providers, which are ancillary and incidental to their practices and 
which are customary in the practices of similarly -situated physicians, 
dentists, or other individual health care providers in Park City, UT,; (ii) 
radiology, radiographic, imaging, ultrasou nd, or x -ray services of any 
kind or nature to either in -patients or out -patients by or under the 
34
-13- 
supervision of physicians, medical personnel and/or other persons or 
entities, including without limitation imaging centers, except for basic 
radiographic services, which are exclusively used for the benefit of 
patients of individual physicians, dentists, or other  individual health 
care providers, which are ancillary and incidental to their practices and 
which are customary in the practices of similarly -situated physicians, 
dentists or other individual health care providers in the City,; (iii) except 
as otherwise specified under subparagraphs (i) or (ii) above,  diagnostic, 
therapeutic, rehabilitative, laboratory, respiratory, therapy, physician 
therapy, or other medical or health-related services, in any case whether 
office or clinical, to either in -patients or our -patients by or under the 
supervision of physicians (or any affiliate thereof), medical personnel, 
dentists, or other health care providers; (iv) residential -care or living 
facilities for troubled or “at-risk” youth; or (v) other health care services 
duplicative, in lieu of, or competitive with health care services currently 
provided by or currently available through Intermountain Healthcare 
and/or available through health care facilities or Intermountain 
Healthcare in Summit County, UT. 
10.4.3. “Prohibited Health Care Provider” means, other than Intermountain 
Healthcare (or any affiliate thereof): (i) an acute care hospital provider 
(e.g. HCA or Columbia/HCA) or any subsidiary or affiliate thereof, (ii) 
any organization or entity for medically-related nonprofit or tax-exempt 
purposes, except for a Summit County, UT (the “County”) health care 
office facility, which is operated by the County and which only provides 
administrative and other health care services other than any Prohibited 
Health Care Use, or (iii) a health care provider, a physician or physician 
group (or entity controlled thereby) and/or any person engaged in, or any 
entity formed, organized, or existing for the purposes of, any Prohibited 
Health Care Use. 
10.5. No Noxious, Offensive or Illegal Activity. No noxious, offensive, or illegal activity 
shall be carried on in or upon any part of the Project, nor shall anything be done or 
placed in or upon any part of the Project which is or may become a nuisance or may 
cause embarrassment, disturbance, or annoyance to Owners. No activities shall be 
conducted, nor improvements constructed, in or upon any part of the Project which 
are or may become unsafe or hazardous to any person or property. 
10.6. Restrictions on Signs and Window Coverings. All doors and windows that reflect 
or admit light into any passageway, space, room, or building shall not be covered 
or obstructed aby any Owner or occupant, or any of their agents or employees.  All 
signs erected or maintained on any part of the Project must be installed in 
accordance with all relevant sign related ordinances of Summit County, in 
accordance with the uniform sign standards of the Association, and only with prior 
approval from the Board of Directors. Additionally, no signs, for “sale” or “lease” 
signs, neon lighting, flags, or advertising devices of any nature, including without 
limitation commercial, political, informational, or directional signs or devices, shall 
be erected or maintained on any part of the Project without the prior inspection and 
35
-14- 
written approval of Declarant until the expiration of the Transition Events and 
thereafter, by the Board of Directors (or architectural committee), except as may be 
temporarily necessary to caution or warn of danger or as used by Declarant in 
connection with the sales, construction, or marketing of any Unit. If Declarant (or 
Board of Directors) consents to the erection of any such signs or, devices, the same 
shall be promptly removed at the request of Declarant or Board of Directors, as 
applicable. 
10.7. Antenna and Satellite Equipment. No radio aerial, antenna or satellite or other signal 
receiving dish, or other aerial or antenna for reception or transmission, shall be 
placed or kept in or on the Common Area and Facilities except where approved by 
the Board on the rear of each building. 
10.8. Animals. No animals shall be brought or allowed to remain in or upon any part of 
the Project by Owners, except service animals and companionship animals. No 
Owner may bring or keep more than two (2) service or companionship animals in 
the Project. Owners shall be responsible for their animals. 
10.9. No Alterations. No Owner shall, without the prior written consent of the Board of 
Directors in each specific instance, do any act that would impair the structural 
soundness or integrity of the Building or other improvements, or jeopardize the 
safety of persons or property or impair any easement or hereditament appurtenant 
to the Project. Except as otherwise provided herein, no Owner shall, without the 
prior written consent of the Board of Directors in each specific instance, make, or 
cause to be made any al teration, addition, removal, or improvement in or to the 
Common Areas or any part thereof. In any event, no alteration shall be made prior 
to obtaining approval of the appropriate government jurisdiction. 
10.10. No Obstructions or Overloading. There shall be no obstruction of the Common 
Areas and Facilities by any Owner. Owners shall neither store nor leave any of their 
property in the Common Areas and Facilities, except with the prior written consent 
of the Association. No Owner shall bring anything into such Owner's Unit or permit 
anything to be done in such Owner's Unit that will cause damage to a Building or 
structure. No Owner shall overload the floor of such Owner's Unit. No Owner shall 
permit the use or oper ation in its Unit of any equipment,  machinery, or other 
apparatus that will in any manner injure, vibrate, or shake the Building or portions 
thereof. 
10.11. Prohibition of Damage and Certain Activities. Except with the prior written consent 
of the Association, nothing shall be done or kept in any Unit; in the Common Areas 
and Facilities, or in any other part of the Project which would result in cancellation 
of the insurance on the Project or any part thereof, nor shall anything be done or 
kept in any Unit which would increase the rate of insurance on the Project or any 
part thereof over that which the Association, but for such activity, would pay. 
Nothing shall be done or kept in any Unit or in the Common Areas and Facilities or 
any part thereof which would be in violation of any statute, rule, ordinance, 
regulation, permit or other validly imposed requirement of any governmental 
authority. No damage to, or waste of, the Common Areas and Facilities or any part 
36
-15- 
thereof shall be committed by any Owner or guest of any Owner, and each Owner 
shall indemnify and hold harmless the Association and the other Owners from and 
against all loss resulting from any such damage or waste caused by such Owner or 
its guests, lessees, licensees, or invitees. 
10.12. Parking. Each unit will be provided a minimum of four (4) parking spaces in the 
Limited Common Area .  Common Area parking shall be regulated by the Board. 
No permanent structures may be installed in the parking area within each Unit next 
to the overhead door. 
10.12.1. Parking shall be assigned as shown in Exhibit C.  The parking spots 
assigned in Exhibit C cannot be changed without the approval of the 
Unit owner for the respective parking spot.  The Board shall only have 
the authority to reassign a parking spot with the express written approval 
of the Unit owner. 
10.12.2. Unit owners shall be allowed to make parking arrangements with each 
other to accommodate additional parking from time to time.  These 
arrangements are encouraged to help mitigate overflow parking. 
10.12.3. No mobile home, camper or recreational vehicle, boat, truck, trailer, or 
similar equipment shall be continuously (more than 48 continuous 
hours) parked in the Common Area or Limited Common Area parking 
spaces within the Project. For purposes of this Section, “truck” does not 
include a pickup truck that does not exceed three-quarter ton or a sports 
utility vehicle. No unlicensed, abandoned, or immobile vehicle shall be 
parked anywhere within the Project, unless it is kept within a Unit. In 
addition, no oil, chemicals, or other fluids shall be permitted to drip from 
any vehicle within the Project. If oil, chemicals, or other fluids are 
deposited upon any Common Area, such oil, chemical, or other fluid 
deposit shall be cleaned and removed by the Owner or tenant of the Unit, 
or their assignees.   If after written notice and opportunity to cure, the 
Owner or tenant of the Unit fails to clean and remove such chemicals, 
the Board may do so and charge the Unit owner the cost of cleaning and 
removal plus a $100 fine for each occurrence.  Such costs and fine shall 
become a lien against the Owner’s Unit if not paid within 30 days  of 
receipt of a Board invoice for the amount owed.   
10.12.4. Parking is allowed only in designated parking stalls or inside of Units . 
Parking is subject to all applicable state, county, and municipal parking 
laws, codes, restrictions, and regulations. The Association may cause the 
removal of any vehicle wrongfully parked within the Project, including 
a vehicle owned by an occupant or Owner. The Association shall not be 
liable for any damages incurred by the vehicle owner because of suc h 
removal or for any damage to the vehicle caused by such removal unless 
such damag e resulted from the intentional act of any agent of the 
Association. Parking outside of WAREHOUSE Condos, including on-
street parking, is subject to all county and municipal parking and traffic 
37
-16- 
ordinances. 
10.13. Business License Authorization/Limitations on Parking Demand .  Parking is limited 
within the Property and within the Park City Business Center.  As such, many business 
uses will not be appropriate within the Property.  To prevent the use of a Unit that would 
create an inappropriate demand on parking within the Prop erty, or that would lead to 
spillover parking within the Park City Business Center, each Owner must request a 
letter of approval of its specific business use from the Board of Directors prior to 
applying to Summit County for a license to operate that business on the Property.  The 
Board of Directors will closely regulate requests for approval of businesses within the 
Property and for each application will request the minimum parking requirement from 
the County for each 8-hour shift the business plans to operate each day.  Once the Board 
of Directors receives the minimum parking requirement from the County the Board will 
then require proof of ownership, or a long -term lease or leases, for all parking  spaces 
the County will require to support a business -related parking demand.  Each Unit has 
been allocated at least five (5) surface parking spaces in designated Limited Common 
Area.  An Owner may enter into a long -term lease with another Unit Owner for 
additional surface parking spaces, which have been allocated to that Unit Owner, but 
are not required for that Unit Owner’s use.   Each Owner’s business license is valid for 
one calendar year.  Because business -related parking demand can change over time, 
each Unit Owner with a business must request a new letter of approval of the business 
parking from the Board each year.  The Board, in its sole discretion, may deny issuing 
an initial or subsequent annual approval letter based on several factors, including 
whether the: (1) business is an allowed use under the applicable covenants and 
restrictions; (2) County’s analysis of minimum required parking for the business 
exceeds the number of spaces within the Property that are owned or leased by the 
Owner’s busines s; or (3) Board’s experience with the parking demand actually 
generated by the business leads the Board to believe that the business generates more 
parking demand than parking spaces actually allocated to the business Owner by 
ownership or lease. 
10.14. Rules and Regulations. No Owner shall violate the rules and regulations for the use of 
Units and Common Areas and Facilities as adopted from time to time by the 
Association. The Association shall adopt, amend, and repeal such rules and regulations 
as it deems reasonable. The rules and regulations shall govern such matters in 
furtherance of the purposes of the Association, including, without limitation, the use of 
the Common Areas and Facilities, provided, however, that the rules and regulations 
shall not be inconsistent with this Declar ation. A copy of the rules and regulations, as 
they may from time to time be adopted, amended, or repealed, shall be delivered to 
each Owner in the same manner established in this Declaration for the delivery of 
notices. Upon such delivery, said rules and regulations shall have the same force and 
effect as if they were set forth in, and were part of, this Declaration. The rules and 
regulations as adopted, amended, or repealed shall be made available upon request to 
each Owner at the principal office of the Association, or at such other place as may be 
designated by the Board. In the event of any conflict between any such rules and 
regulations and any other provision of this Declaration the provisions of the rules and 
regulations shall be deemed to be superseded by the provisions of this Declaration, the 
Articles of Incorporation, or the Bylaws to the extent of any such inconsistency. 
10.15. Additions, Alterations, Improvements and Decorations. Except as otherwise provided 
38
-17- 
in the Condominium Declaration, no Unit Owner, except Declarant, shall make: (i) any 
structural addition, alteration, or improvement to its Unit or any Limited Common Area 
which it has the right to use, or (ii) any non-structural addition, alteration, improvement 
or decoration to or upon the windows and doors enclosing its Unit, or to or upon any 
Limited Common Area or portion of the Unit which it has the right to use unless and 
until plans and specifications, in duplicate, showing the nature, kind, shape, height, 
color, materials, location and approximate cost of such addition, alteration, 
improvement or decoration shall have been submitted to and approved in writing by the 
Board. For the purposes of the Condominium Declaration, a structural addition, 
alteration, or improvement to a Unit shall include but is not limited to, without 
limitation, any addition, alteration or improvement involving any portion of the Unit 
(such as a utility line or vent serving that Unit) located above the top surface of any 
sheetrock ceiling within the Unit, whether such ceiling is a drop ceiling or is located at 
the upper boundary of the Unit. In no event shall the provisions of this Section 10.1 l 
apply to Declarant or any Unit that Declarant may own, from time to time. 
10.16. No Unsightliness. No unsightliness is permitted on any Unit or anywhere within the 
Project. This shall include, without limitation: the open storage of any building 
materials, except during the construction of any improvements; the open storage or 
parking of farm or construction equipment, inoperable motor vehicles, boats, campers, 
trailers, snowmobiles, ATV's or other recreational vehicles, and trucks larger than pick-
up trucks, except during periods of actual loading and unloading; accumulations or 
storage of construction debris or waste; accumulations or storage of refuse or garbage, 
except as stored in tight containers in an enclosure such as a garbage can which is placed 
at the curb the evening prior to scheduled pickup and removed from the curb within a 
reasonable time period (not to exceed, however, 24 hours) after pickup is complete; the 
open storage of lawn or garden furniture, except during season of use; and the storage 
or accumulation of any other material, vehicle, or equipment on the Unit or any where 
within the Project in a manner that is visible from the public View or from another Unit. 
Any violation of this Section 10.12 shall entitle the Association to levy fines for non -
compliance, which may be collected in the same manner as Individual Assessments. 
10.17. Right of Inspection. Upon reasonable notice and in the company of either the Owner of 
such Unit or a person designated in writing by the Owner of such Unit, a representative 
of the Association shall have the right to inspect each Unit to verify compliance with 
the provisions of this Declaration, the Bylaws, and the Rules and Regulations. 
10.18. Leasing Restrictions. The leasing or rental of a Unit shall be governed by the provisions 
of this Section 10.15. 
10.18.1. Minimum Lease Term Required. No Unit Owner shall be permitted to rent 
or lease less than the entire Unit or to rent or otherwise permit the Owner's 
Unit to be used, rented, or occupied by a Tenant or other non­owner 
Occupant for an initial occupancy period of less than ninety (90) days. 
Every lease shall be for a fixed initial term of not less than ninety (90) days 
but may be renewed on a month-to-month basis thereafter. 
10.18.2. Hardship Exception. Where, on written application from an Owner, the 
Board of Directors determines that a hardship exists whereby that Owner 
would suffer serious harm by virtue of the limitation on renting contained 
39
-18- 
in this Section 10.14, and where the Board further determines that a 
variance from the policies contained therein would not detrimentally affect 
the other Owners, the Board of Directors may, in its discretion, grant an 
Owner a waiver of the requirements of  this Section 10.14 for a temporary 
period not to exceed one (1) year for good cause shown. 
10.19. Notice.  Declarant, and each Owner shall disclose the following to each Unit purchaser: 
PRIOR TO APPLICATION FOR ANY BUSINESS LICENSE ASSOCIATED WITH 
THE USE OF THIS UNIT , OWNER  MUST REQUEST AND RECEIVE A 
PARKING ALLOCATION LETTER FROM THE BOARD, INDICATING THAT 
THERE IS SUFFICIENT, UNALLOCATED SURFACE PARKING TO 
ACCOMMODATE THE SPECIFIC BUSINESS USE.  OWNER MUST RENEW 
THIS REQUEST ANNUALLY.  A PARKING ALLOCATION LETTER SHALL BE 
ISSUED BASED SOLELY ON THE EXISTING, APPROVED BUSINESS USES 
WITHIN THE PROPERTY, THE COUNTY’S PARKING REQUIREMENTS FOR 
THE BUSINESS, AND THE BOARD’S EXPERIENCE WITH PA RKING 
DEMANDS WITHIN THE PROPERTY. 
DECLARANT ALSO MAINTAINS A RIGHT -OF-FIRST-REFUSAL FOR THE 
RESALE OF ANY UNIT WITHIN THE PROJECT. IF THE DECLARANT DOES 
NOT RESPOND WITHIN 21 DAYS OF NOTICE OF OWNER’S INTENT TO 
RESELL A UNIT OR DOES NOT AGREE TO SELLER’S BUYER -ACCEPTED 
PURCHASE TERMS, THEN OWNER MAY SELL TO A THIRD PARTY. 
 
11. BYLAWS OF THE ASSOCIATION 
11.1. Board of Directors. The Association shall be managed by a Board of Directors 
which shall initially be comprised of three (3) persons; provided, however, until the 
expiration of the Transition Events, Declarant shall have the exclusive and 
irrevocable right to appoint all of the members of the Board of Directors and their 
successors or replacements, who need not be Owners. At the first annual  
Association meeting after the occurrence of the Transition Events, the Members of 
the Board of Directors shall be ele cted by the Owners. To provide continuity of 
management, when the Board is comprised of three (3) persons, one (I) shall be 
elected for a three (3) year term; one (1) for a two (2) year term and one (1) for a 
one (1) year term. The Members of the Board of Directors shall also constitute the 
Board of Directors of the Association. 
11.2. Qualification of Board of Directors Members. To qualify, a member of the Board 
of Directors must be an individual Owner or the representative of Declarant, as 
provided in Section 11.1 above. 
11.3. Vacancies. Any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors after the occurrence of 
the Transition Events may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the 
Members of the Association at a regular or special meeting. A director elected to 
fill a vacancy shall hold office for the remainder of the director's unexpired term 
which gave rise to the vacancy and until his or her successor is elected and qualified, 
40
-19- 
or until his or her earlier dismissal, death, resignation or removal. 
11.4. Dismissal of Board of Director Members. Any Board of Director member who fails 
on three (3) successive occasions to attend Board of Directors meetings (whether 
regular or special) or who has failed to attend at least twenty-five (25%) of all Board 
of Director meetings (whether regular or special) held during any twelve (12) month 
period shall automatically forfeit his or her seat and shall be deemed to have been 
dismissed from the Board of Directors. 
11.5. Removal of Board of Directors Members/Declarant's Rights. Except for Board of 
Directors members appointed by Declarant before the occurrence of the Transition 
Events, Board of Directors members may be removed at any time by the affirmative 
vote of a majority of the Members of the Association.  A  replacement to serve the 
remainder of the removed director's unexpired term shall be elected at the same 
meeting. 
11.6. Term. Unless a director forfeits or otherwise loses such director 's seat as herein 
provided, a director shall hold office for the term that he or she was elected and until 
his or her successor is elected and qualified, or until his or her earlier  dismissal, 
death, resignation, or removal. 
11.7. Resignation. A director may resign at any time by giving written notice  of 
resignation to the Board of Directors and unless otherwise specified therein, the 
acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective, but such 
resignation shall be effective when notice is delivered. 
11.8. No Compensation. Board of Directors members shall not be compensated for their 
services but shall be reimbursed for all expenses reasonably incurred in connection 
with Directors. 
11.9. Board of Directors business and approved by the Board of Directors Officers and 
Agents. The Board of Directors shall perform its functions through three (3) 
members who are elected as officers by the Board of  Directors and through such 
agents or employees as the Board of Directors may appoint. There shall be a 
President, Vice President and Secretary-Treasurer. Any Board of Directors officer, 
agent, or employee may at any time be removed, with or without cause, by the vote 
of a majority of the Board of Direc tors members, provided, however, if a member 
of the Board of Directors is removed as an officer, he or she shall continue to be a 
member of the Board of Directors. 
11.10. Board of Directors Meetings. A regular meeting of the Board of Directors shall be 
held immediately after the adjournment of each annual Owners meeting or at such 
other time as the members of the Board of Directors may decide. Other regular 
meetings shall be held at periodic intervals (no longer than monthly) at such time 
and place as the Board of Directors may determine. No notice need be given of 
regular Board of Directors meetings. Special Board of Directors meetings shall be 
held whenever called by the President or by any three (3) members of the Board of 
Directors. Reasonable effort shall be made to give either oral or written notice of a 
41
-20- 
special meeting to each Board of Directors member at least twenty-four (24) hours 
before the time fixed for the meeting. The propriety of holding any meeting which 
is attended by all Board of Directors members may not be challenged on grounds 
of inadequate  notice. A quorum for the transaction of business at any Board of 
Directors meeting shall consist of a majority of all the members then in office. 
11.11. Status and General Authority of Board of Directors. Any instrument executed by 
the Board of Directors that recites facts which, if true, would establish the Board of 
Directors' power and authority to accomplish through such instrument what is 
purported to be accomplished thereby, shall conclusively establish said power and 
authority in favor of any person who in good faith and for value relies upon said 
instrument. The Association shall, in connection with its exercise of any of the 
powers delineated below, constitute a legal entity capable of dealing in its Board of 
Directors name. The Board of Directors shall have, and is hereby granted, the 
following authority and powers: 
11.11.1. To Enter. The power and authority to enter into or upon any Unit to make 
repairs and to do other work reasonably necessary for the proper 
maintenance and operation of the Project. Except in the case of an 
emergency, reasonable notice shall be given to the residents. 
11.11.2. Grant Easements. The authority, without the vote or consent of the 
Owners, Mortgagees, insurers or guarantors of any Mortgage, or of any 
other person, to grant or create, on such terms as it deems advisable, 
reasonable permits, licenses, and nonexclusive e asements over, under, 
across, and through the Buildings, Units and the Common Areas and 
Facilities for utilities, roads, and other purposes reasonably necessary or 
useful for the proper maintenance, operation or regulation of the Project. 
11.11.3. Execute Documents. The authority to execute and record, on behalf of  
all Owners, any amendment to the Declaration or Map which has been 
approved by the vote or consent necessary to authorize such amendment. 
11.11.4. Standing. The power to sue and be sued. 
11.11.5. Enter Into Contracts. The authority to enter into contracts which in any 
way concern the Project, so long as any vote or consent necessitated by 
the subject matter of the agreement has been obtained. 
11.11.6. Transfer Interests in Real Property. The power and authority to  
exchange, convey or transfer any interest in real property, so long as it 
has been approved by at least seventy -five percent (75%) of  the 
Members in the Association. 
11.11.7. To Purchase. The power and authority to purchase, otherwise acquire, 
and accept title to, any interest in real property, so long as it has been 
approved by at least seventy -five percent (75%) of the Members in the 
Association. 
42
-21- 
11.11.8. Add Property. The power and authority to add any real property, or 
interest therein, obtained pursuant to subparagraph 11.10.7 above to the 
Project, so long as it has been approved by at least seventy -five (75%) 
of the Members in the Association. 
11.11.9. Promulgate Rules. The authority to promulgate such reasonable 
administrative guidelines, rules, regulations, and procedures as may be 
necessary or desirable to aid the Board of Directors in carrying out any 
of its functions or to ensure that the Project and common areas and 
facilities are maintained and used in a manner consistent with this 
Declaration. 
11.11.10. Meetings.  The authority to establish procedures for the conduct of its 
meetings, including but not limited to the power to decide what portion 
of the meeting shall be open or closed to Members of the Association or 
residents not on the Board of Directors, to retire to executive session, to 
regulate record keeping, and to allow, control or prohibit the electronic, 
video or audio reproduction of Board of Directors meetings. 
11.11.11. Assignment or Leasing of Common Areas and Facilities. The authority 
to charge reasonable user fees for Common Areas and Facilities, and to 
assign or lease available Common Areas and Facilities to Owners as well 
as to others on an annual basis. 
11.11.12. All Other Acts. The power and authority to perform any and all other 
acts, and to enter into any other transactions which may be reasonably 
necessary for the Board of Directors to perform its functions on behalf 
of the Owners. 
11.12. Delegation of Management Responsibilities. The Board of Directors may delegate 
some of its management responsibilities to a professional management company,  
an experienced on-site or off-site manager, independent contractors, through service 
contracts, or any combination thereof. The termination provision of any such 
contract must not require a termination penalty or any advance notice of more than 
thirty (30) days and no such contract shall be for a term beyond the expiration of 
the Transition Events, unless approved by the Owners, as provided in Section 57 -
8-16.5 of the Utah Condominium Ownership Act, as amended from time to time. 
11.13. Owners Meetings. The Association Members shall meet as follows: 
11.13.1. Annual Meeting. The annual meeting of the Owners shall be held in 
December of each year. The place of the meeting shall be at the location 
specified in the notice of meeting. At least ten (10) but not more than 
thirty (30) days before the date of the annua l meeting, a written notice 
thereof shall be personally delivered or mailed postage prepaid to each 
person who appears as an Owner, at its last known address; provided, 
however, that notice may also be delivered by electronic delivery if the 
party providing notice has taken all steps to ensure that the delivery of 
43
-22- 
such notice is fair, reasonable and will be effective. The notice shall state 
the location, date, time, place and general purpose of the meeting. It is 
the responsibility of each Owner to keep the Association informed of 
Owner's current mailing address. No tices mailed to the most recent 
address provided by Owner shall be deemed to be received by Owner 
seventy-two (72) hours after it has been deposited in the United States 
mail, first class postage prepaid, addressed to the Owner at the address 
given by the Owner to the Board of Directors for the purpose of service 
of notice or to the address of the Owner's Unit if no other address has 
been provided. Any address may be changed from time to time by giving 
written notice to the Board of Directors. 
11.13.2. Special Meetings. Special meetings of the Owners may be called by the 
President, by the Board of Directors, or by any three (3) members of the 
Board of Directors, or by Unit Owners holding at least twenty five 
percent (25%) of the undivided ownership interest in the Common Area. 
At least ten (10) but not more than thirty (30) days before the date set 
for a special meeting, written notice thereof shall be given in the manner 
described in the immediately preceding Paragraph. 
11.14. Waiver of Notice. No notice of any Owners meeting shall be required if a waiver of 
such notice is signed by all of the Owners. Whenever all of the Owners meet in 
person or by proxy such meeting may not be challenged on grounds of inadequate 
notice. 
11.14.1. Quorum. The presence of at least thirty -seven and five tenths percent 
(37.5%) of all votes entitled to be cast shall constitute a quorum for the 
transaction of business at any Owners meeting. 
11.14.2. Quorum Not Present. If a quorum is not present at any Owners meeting, 
whether regular or special, the meeting may be adjourned and 
rescheduled for a time no earlier than forty-eight (48) hours and no later 
than thirty (30) days, after the time set for the original meeting. 
11.14.3. Quorum at Rescheduled Meeting. Those Members present at the 
rescheduled meeting and entitled to vote shall constitute a quorum at the 
rescheduled meeting. 
11.14.4. Percentage Approval Requirement. In any situation in which this 
Declaration requires the affirmative vote of a certain percentage of the 
total ownership interest in the Project for authorization or approval of a 
matter, the affirmative approval of that per centage of all of the Unit 
Owners, who must either be present at the meeting in person or by proxy, 
or, in the alternative, who have signed a separate written consent, is 
required for authorization or approval of the  item, regardless of the 
quorum requirements. 
11.14.5. Consent in Lieu of Vote. In any case in which this Declaration requires 
44
-23- 
the vote of an Owner for authorization or approval of an act or a 
transaction, such requirement may be fully satisfied by the Board of 
Directors obtaining from Owners who collectively hold the required  
percentages, with or without a meeting, consents in writing to such  
transaction, subject to the following conditions: 
11.14.5.1. Ninety-Day Limit. All necessary consents must be obtained 
prior to the expiration of ninety (90) days from the time the 
first written consent is obtained; and 
11.14.5.2. Change in Ownership.  Any change in Ownership of a Unit 
which occurs after consent has been obtained from the 
Owner having an interest therein shall not be considered or 
taken into account for any purpose. 
11.15. Classes of Membership and Voting Allocations. The Association shall have two (2) 
classes of membership-Class A and Class B, described more particularly as follows: 
11.15.1. Class A. The Class A Members shall be all Owners with the exception 
of the Class B Members, if any. Class A Members shall be entitled to 
vote on all issues before the Association, subject to the following: 
11.15.1.1. One Vote. Each Unit shall have one (1) vote. 
11.15.1.2. Subject to Assessment. No vote shall be cast or counted for  
any Unit not subject to assessment. 
11.15.1.3. Multiple Owners. When more than one (1) person or entity 
holds such interest in a Unit, the vote for such Unit shall be 
exercised as those persons or entities themselves determine 
and advise the Secretary of the Association prior to any  
meeting. In the absence of such advice, the vote of the Unit 
shall be suspended in the event more than one (1) person or 
entity seeks to exercise it. 
11.15.1.4. Leased Unit. Any Owner of a Unit that has been leased may, 
in the lease or other written instrument, assign the voting 
right appurtenant to that Unit to the lessee, provided that a 
copy of such instrument is furnished to the Secretary prior to 
any meeting. 
11.15.2. Class B. The Class B Member shall be Declarant and any successor of 
Declarant who takes title for the purpose of development and sale of 
Units, and who is designated as such in a recorded instrument executed 
by Declarant. The Class B Member shall be entitled to four (4) votes per 
Unit owned or to be d eveloped. The Class B membership shall 
terminate, and Class B membership shall convert to Class A membership 
upon the happening of the earlier of the following (which are hereinafter 
45
-24- 
referred to as the “Transition Events”): 
11.15.2.1. Units Sold. Four (4) months after the sale (meaning the 
execution and delivery of a deed to a Unit by Declarant) of 
all 11 Units; or 
11.15.2.2. Six Years. Six (6) years from the date following the first 
conveyance of a Unit in the Building to a Unit purchaser after 
effective date of this Declaration; or 
11.15.2.3. Election. When, in its sole discretion, Declarant so 
determines. 
11.15.3. Change to Class A Member. From and after the happening of the 
Transition Events, whichever occurs earlier, the Class B Member shall 
be deemed to be a Class A Member entitled to one (1) vote for each Unit 
owned. At such time, Declarant shall call a meeting, in the manner 
described in the Bylaws of the Association for special meetings, to 
advise the membership of the termination of Class B status and, if it has 
not already occurred, to schedule transition of the operation and 
management of the entire Project to the Association. 
11.16. Lists of Unit Owners. Eligible Mortgagees, and Eligible Insurers or Guarantors. The 
Board of Directors shall maintain up-to-date records showing: (a) the name of each 
person or entity who is an Owner, the address of such person or entity, and the Unit 
which is owned by it, him or her; (b) the name of each person or entity who is an 
Eligible Mortgagee, the address of such person or entity, and the Unit which is 
encumbered by the Mortgage held by such person or entity; and (c) the name of 
each person or entity who is an Eligible Insurer or Guarantor, the address of such 
person or entity, and the Unit which is encumbered by the Mortgage insured or 
guaranteed by such person or entity. In the event of any transfer of a fee or  
undivided fee interest in a Unit, either the transferor or transferee shall furnish the 
Board of Directors with evidence establishing that the transfer has occurred and that 
the Deed or other instrument accomplishing the transfer is of record in the office of 
the County Recorder of Summit County, Utah. The Board of Directors may for all 
purposes act and rely on the information concerning Unit ownership in its records 
or, at its option, the records of the County Recorder. The address of any Owner shall 
be deemed to be the address of the Unit owned by such person unless the Board of 
Directors is otherwise advised in writing. Owners are obligated to provide the Board 
of Directors the information outlined in this Section 11.16. 
11.17. If a Unit is rented, Owner shall provide the Board of Directors with a copy of the 
lease agreement and a signed statement from the tenant in which tenant agrees to 
abide by the provisions of this Declaration. 
11.18. Capital Improvements and Table. The Board of Directors shall prepare a Table of 
Capital Improvements, which shall contain a list of foreseeable expenditures for 
Capital Improvements within the Area of Common Responsibility. The Table shall 
46
-25- 
be included in every annual budget, and it shall be reviewed and updated at least 
annually, and reasonable reserve accounts shall be established by the Board of 
Directors for the replacement of capital assets as they age. Expenditures by the 
Association fo r Capital Improvements to the Project shall be subject to and 
governed by the following: 
11.18.1. Board of Directors Discretion/Expenditure Limit. Capital Improvements 
to the Project which cost ten percent (10%) or less of the Total Annual 
Operations Budget and do not materially alter the nature of the Project, 
may be authorized by the Board of Directors alone. 
11.18.2. Owner Approval/Expenditure Limit. Any Capital Improvement, the cost 
of which will exceed such amount, must prior to the commencement of 
construction, be authorized by at least a majority of the Owners. 
11.18.3. Owner Approval/Changing the Nature of the Project. Any Capital 
Improvement which would materially alter the nature of the Project is 
forbidden. 
11.19. Operation, Maintenance and Alterations. The Units , Limited Common Areas,  and 
Common Areas and Facilities shall be maintained by the Unit Owners and the 
Association as follows: 
11.19.1. Area of Common Responsibility. The Association shall maintain, repair 
and replace, as needed from time to time, the Common Areas , Limited 
Common Areas, and Facilities, including but not limited to the exterior 
of all Buildings, all roofs, foundations, footings, columns, girders, 
beams, supports and main walls of any Unit, outside parking areas, all 
common  utility services such as power, light, gas, hot and cold water, 
sewer,  heating, refrigeration and air conditioning systems, fences, 
fixtures, and all landscaping as set forth with  more particularity below.  
Any Owner improvements made to Patios and decks shall be the sole 
responsibility of the Owner(s) in which the patio or deck services. 
11.19.2. Patios and Decks.  FOR FUTURE USE 
11.19.3. Area of Personal Responsibility. Each Unit Owner shall maintain, repair 
and replace, as needed in its Unit, individual utilities, including but not 
limited to all power, gas, telephone, and television lines servicing only 
its Unit, and areas appurtenant to its Unit, windows, and doors 
appurtenant to each Unit. If a specific item is not mentioned expressly 
in the Area of Common Responsibility and it is located in, on, under or 
above a Unit, then it shall be the responsibility of the Unit Owner, unless 
otherwise determined in writing by the Board of Directors. 
11.19.4. Landscaping. The Association shall maintain, repair , and replace all 
landscaping throughout the entire Project, including but not limited to 
all greenspace, grass, sod, ground cover, flower beds, plant beds, trees, 
47
-26- 
bushes, shrubs, and sprinkling systems, which Owners or residents shall 
not modify, change, or alter without the express prior written consent of 
the Board of Directors. All landscaping in the Project shall be 
maintained and cared for in a manner consisten t with the quality of 
design and construction originally established by Declarant, Specific 
guidelines and restrictions on landscaping may be established by the 
Board of Directors from time to time. All landscaping shall be 
maintained in a neat and orderly  condition. Any weeds or diseased or 
dead lawn, trees, ground cover or shrubbery shall be removed and 
replaced. All lawn areas shall be neatly mowed and trees, shrubs and 
bushes shall be properly pruned and trimmed. 
11.19.5. Snow & Ice Accumulations. The Association, by itself or jointly with 
surrounding property owners shall remove ice and snow accumulations 
from certain areas of the Common Areas and Facilities. Snow and ice 
accumulations on the Building shall be the sole res ponsibility of the 
Association. Owners are responsible for snow removal from their 
overhead and service doors and other rear entrances. 
11.19.6. Garbage Storage and Removal. Each Owner shall deposit the garbage, 
debris and refuse from its Unit into the centrally located trash receptacles 
or dumpsters throughout the Project, which shall be collected by public 
agencies. 
11.19.7. Limited Common Area. While each Unit Owner shall maintain its 
Limited Common Area in a clean, safe, tidy, attractive , and sanitary 
condition, the Association shall be responsible to replace and repair the 
Limited Common Area and all improvements constructed or installed 
thereon, except as provided in Section 11.19.2. 
11.19.8. Utilities. The Association shall provide those utility services not 
separately metered and billed to the individual Owners by the provider.  
11.19.9. Standard of Care/General. The Project shall be maintained in a usable, 
clean, functional, attractive , and good condition, consistent with 
community standards. 
11.19.10. Right of Entry. The Board of Directors, its agents, representatives or 
employees shall have a right to enter upon or into any Unit or Common 
Area as necessary in order to maintain and operate the Project and shall 
not be liable for trespass for such entry or work. 
11.19.11. Changes to Areas of Personal or Common Responsibility. The Board of 
Directors may, in its sole discretion, add items to or subtract items from 
the areas of personal or common responsibility described above, upon at 
least thirty (30) days prior written notice to the Unit Owners. 
11.19.12. Alterations to the Common Area, Limited Common Area, and Facilities. 
48
-27- 
Anything to the contrary notwithstanding and until the occurrence of the 
Transition Events, Declarant may make changes to the Limited 
Common Areas, Common Areas and Facilities, after notice to Summit 
County, without the consent of either the Association, Board of 
Directors or Owners; provided, however, no Owner or resident may 
make any structural alterations, modifications, changes or 
improvements to the Limited Common Areas, Common Areas and 
Facilities, including but not limited to any additions, extension s, 
enclosures, fencing, decks, patios, walkways, structures or sheds not 
shown on the approved plans and specifications, without the prior 
express written consent of the Board of Directors. 
 
12. COMMON EXPENSES AND ASSESSMENTS 
12.1. Common Expenses. Each Owner, by acceptance of a deed, whether or not  it shall 
be so expressed in such deed, covenants and agrees to pay to the Association in a 
timely manner all assessments assessed by the Association. Each Owner shall pay 
its assessments to the Association subject to and in accordance with the restrictions 
set forth below; provided, however, anything to the contrary notwithstanding, 
Declarant shall not be obligated to pay assessments until such time as any structure, 
building or Unit owned by Declarant is substantially completed and a permanent 
certificate of occupancy has been issued or, in the alternative, Declarant elects in 
writing to commence payment, whichever first occurs. Notwithstanding the 
foregoing, Declarant's obligation to pay assessments shall be determined as follows: 
In no event during the first year that Declarant owns any Unit subject to this 
Declaration, no assessments shall be due from Declarant. Thereafter, Declarant 
may, at its sole option, pay assessments equal to twenty -five percent (25%) of the 
regular assessments or other charge made or levied against any other Unit for each 
Unit owned by Declarant which is subject to this Declaration or Declarant may pay 
any operating deficit of the  Association up to the date of the Transition Events. If 
Declarant elects to pay the deficit, it shall be entitled to meet the deficit funding 
obligation by making, or (if such person so agrees in writing) causing any other 
person to make on its behalf, one  or more cash payments or in -kind contributions 
of goods or services, or any combination thereof to t he Association, and the 
Association shall have the right to enter into written or oral contracts with Declarant 
for the contribution of such goods or services for such purpose. 
12.1.1. Purpose of Common Area Assessments. The assessments shall pay for 
the common expenses of the Association as may be from time to time 
specifically authorized by the Board of Directors. The assessments 
provided for herein shall be used for the general purpos e of operating 
the Project, promoting the recreation, health, safety welfare, common 
benefit and enjoyment of the Owners and occupants, including the 
maintenance of any real and personal property owned by the 
Association, and regulating the Community, all as may be more 
specifically authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors. At 
49
-28- 
no time shall any assessment be used in connection with any legal action 
against Declarant or Builder. 
12.1.2. Assessments by the Association. Owners will participate in the expenses 
of the Association and specifically, each Owner will pay an annual 
assessment to be determined by Declarant. The Association may change 
this rate of assessment. The Units shall also pay an amount to the 
Association for irrigation water usage subject to increase from time to 
time. 
12.1.3. Budget. At least twenty (20) days prior to the annual meeting of the 
Association, the Board of Directors shall prepare and deliver to the 
Owners a proposed budget which: 
12.1.3.1. Itemization. Shall set forth an itemization of the anticipated 
Common Expenses for the twelve (12) month calendar year, 
commencing with the following January 1. 
12.1.3.2. Basis. Shall be based upon advance estimates of cash 
requirements by the Board of Directors to provide for the 
payment of all estimated expenses growing out of  or 
connected with the maintenance and operation of the 
Common Areas and Facilities, which estimates shall include 
but are not limited to expenses of premiums for all insurance 
which the Board of Directors is required or permitted to 
maintain, common lighting and heating, water charges, 
carpeting, painting, repairs and maintenance of the Common 
Areas and Facilities and replacement of the elements and 
components thereof that must be replaced on a periodic basis, 
wages for  Board of Directors employees, legal and 
accounting fees, any deficit remaining from a previous 
period; the creation of a reasonable contingency reserve, 
surplus or sinking fund, Capital Improvement reserve, and 
other expenses and liabilities which may be i ncurred by the 
Association for the benefit of the Owners under and by 
reason of this Declaration. 
12.1.4 Approval of Budget and Assessments. The proposed budget and the 
assessments shall become effective unless disapproved at the annual 
meeting by a vote of at least a majority of the Owners; provided, 
however, that to the extent the budget increases the asses sment by not 
more than fifteen percent (15%) from the prior year's assessment, then 
the Board shall have the right to approve such budget without a vote of 
the Owners, Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, if the membership 
disapproves the proposed budge t and assessment schedule, or if the 
Board of Directors fails for any reason to establish the budget and 
assessment schedule for the succeeding year, then and until such time as 
a new budget and new assessment schedule shall have been established, 
50
-29- 
the budget and the assessment schedule in effect for the then current year 
shall continue for the succeeding year. 
12.1.5 Payment of Assessments. The Board of Directors has the sole authority 
and discretion to determine how and when the annual assessments are 
paid, and to amend, modify, change, or supplement that schedule from 
time to time. Initially, the assessments shall be paid monthly, and shall 
be due on or before the fifth day of each month. 
12.1.6 Personal Obligation of Owners.  Each Unit Owner shall pay  its 
assessments and additional charges; provided, however, no first 
mortgages or beneficiary under a first deed of trust (but not the Seller 
under an executory contract of sale, uniform real estate contract, land 
sales contract, or other similar instrument), who obtains title of a Unit 
pursuant to the remedies provided in the mortgage or trust deed shall be 
liable for unpaid assessments which accrued prior to the acquisition of 
title. For purposes of this Section, the term “Owner” shall mean and refer 
jointly and severally to: the Owner of both the legal and equitable 
interest in any Unit; the owner of record in the offices of the County 
Recorder of Summit County, Utah; and both the Buyer and Seller under 
any executory sales contra ct, uniform real estate contract, land sales 
contract, or other similar instrument. 
12.1.7 Equitable Changes. If the aggregate of all the monthly assessment  
payments on all of the Units are too large or too small as a result of 
unanticipated income or expenses, the Board of Directors may from time 
to time effect an equitable change in the amount of said payments 
provided the Owners are given at least thirty (30) days written notice of 
any changes. 
12.1.8  Dates and Manner of Payments. The Association will collect all 
assessments. The dates, method, form, and manner of payment shall be 
determined by the Board of Directors. Initially, all monthly assessments 
shall be paid by check, payable to “WAREHOUSE Condominiums 
Association” and sent to the following address: 
WAREHOUSE Condominiums Association 
Attention: Jacob Wolf 
4413 N Forestdale Dr, Box H 
Park City, UT 84098 
 
12.1.9 Reserve Accounts. The Board of Directors shall establish and maintain 
at least one (1) reserve account for Capital Improvements. 
12.1.10  Acceleration. Assessments shall be paid in the manner and on dates 
fixed by the Board of Directors who may, at its option and in its sole 
discretion, elect to accelerate the entire annual assessment for Owners 
who have failed to pay their monthly assessment in a timely manner If, 
51
-30- 
however, the assessment is accelerated and an Owner subsequently files 
bankruptcy or the Board of Directors otherwise decides acceleration is 
not in its best interest, the Board  of Directors,  at its option and in its 
sole discretion, may elect to decelerate the obligation. 
12.1.11  Statement of Assessments Due. Upon written request, the Board of 
Directors shall furnish to any Owner a statement of assessments due, if 
any on its Unit. Failure to provide the certificate within thirty (30) days 
after a written request shall be deemed conclusive evidence that all 
assessments are paid current. The Association may require the advance 
payment of a processing charge not to exceed $15.00 for the issuance of 
such certificate. 
12.1.12 Superiority of Assessments. All Assessments and liens created to secure 
the obligation to pay assessments are superior to any homestead 
exemptions to which an Owner may be entitled and each Owner, by 
accepting a deed to a Unit or other document of conveyan ce, hereby 
waives such homestead exemption as to the Association. 
12.1.13 Termination of Utility Service. At the discretion of the Board of 
Directors, the utility service to any Owner paid for by assessments may 
be terminated if the Owner is in arrears on  its obligation to pay 
assessments and has failed to cure or make satisfactory arrangements to 
cure the default after reasonable notice of at least ten (10) days. 
12.1.14 Suspension of Right to Vote for Non -Payment. At the discretion of the 
Board of Directors, the right of an Owner to vote on issues concerning 
the Association may be suspended if the Owner is delinquent in the 
payment of its assessments and has failed to cure or make satisfactory 
arrangements to cure the default after reasonable notice of at least (10) 
days. 
12.1.15 Initial Monthly Assessment Amount. The initial monthly assessment for 
each Unit shall be determined by Declarant. The Assessment amount 
shall increase or decrease from time to time subject to the provisions 
described herein. 
12.2. Special Assessments, in addition, the Association may levy Special Assessments in 
any year, subject to the following: 
12.2.1 Special Assessment Approval. So long as the Special Assessment does 
not exceed the sum of One Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($1000.00) per 
Unit in any one fiscal year (the “Special Assessment Limit”); the Board 
of Directors may impose the special assessment without any additional 
approval. 
12.2.2 Association Approval. Any Special Assessment which would exceed the 
Special Assessment limit of One Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($1000) 
52
-31- 
shall be effective only if approved by a majority of votes of the Owners 
of the Association. The Board of Directors in its discretion may allow 
any Special Assessment to be paid in installments. 
12.3. Specific Assessments. If a Unit Owner may accept or reject the benefit, then the 
Board of Directors shall also have the power to specifically assess the Owners in a 
particular area as follows: 
12.3.1 Benefit only to specific Unit. If the expense benefits less than all of the 
Units, then those Units benefited may be specifically assessed, and the 
specific assessment shall be equitably apportioned among those Units 
according to the benefit received. 
12.3.2 Unequal or Disproportionate Benefit. If the expense benefits all Units, 
but does not provide an equal benefit to all Units, then all Units shall be 
specifically assessed, but the specific assessment shall be equitably  
apportioned among all Units according to the benefit received. 
12.3.3 No Waiver. The failure of the Board of Directors to exercise its authority 
under this Section shall not be grounds for any action against the 
Association or the Board of Directors and shall not constitute a waiver 
of the Board of Director's right to exerci se its authority under this 
Section in the future with respect to any expenses, including an expense 
for which the Board of Directors has not previously authority under this 
Section. 
12.4. Individual Assessments. Individual Assessments may be levied by the Board of 
Directors against a Unit and its Owner to reimburse the Association for: 
12.4.1 Costs and expenses incurred in enforcing the Project Documents. 
12.4.2 Costs and expenses associate d with the maintenance,  repair or 
replacement of Common Area for which the Unit Owner is responsible. 
12.4.3 Any other charge, fee, due, expense, or cost designated as an Individual 
Assessment in the Declaration, 
12.4.4 Attorneys' fees, interest, and other charges relating thereto as provided 
in this Declaration. 
12.5. Collection of Assessments. Assessments must be paid in a timely manner and 
shall be collected as follows: 
12.5.1 Time is of the Essence. Time is of the essence and all assessments shall 
be paid promptly when due. 
12.5.2 Delinquent Assessments. Any assessments which are not paid when due 
are deemed to be delinquent. 
53
-32- 
12.5.3 Lien. If any Unit Owner fails or refuses to make any payment of the 
Common Expenses when due, that amount shall constitute a lien on the 
interest of the Owner in the Property. A notice of lien may be recorded 
in the Office of the County Recorder of County but  shall only be 
necessary in order to establish the priority of the lien. 
12.5.4 Late Fees and Default Interest Rate. Any assessments delinquent for a 
period of more than ten (10) days shall incur a late charge of twenty­ 
five Dollars ($25.00) or five percent (5%) of the delinquent amount, 
whichever is greater. Interest at the rate of one and one -half percent 
(1.5%) per month shall accrue on all delinquent accounts. The Board of 
Directors may, in its sole discretion, change the amount of the late fee 
or default interest rate or waive late assessments and accruing interest, 
but is not required to do so. 
12.5.5 Foreclosure of Lien and/or Collection Action. If any assessments remain 
unpaid, the Association may, as determined by the Board of Directors, 
institute suit to collect the amounts due, to foreclose the lien, or both. 
12.5.6 Personal Obligation. Each Owner, by acceptance of a deed or as a party 
to any other type of conveyance, vests in the Association or its agents 
the right and power to obtain a personal judgment against them for 
unpaid assessments and additional charges, to foreclose the  lien 
securing the debt in the same manner as mechanics liens, mortgages, 
trust deeds or encumbrances may be foreclosed, or both, 
12.5.7 No Waiver. No Owner may waive or otherwise exempt himself from 
liability for the payment of Assessments, including but not limited to the 
non-use of Common Areas and Facilities or the abandonment of its Unit. 
12.5.8 Duty to Pay Independent. No reduction or abatement of assessments 
shall be claimed or allowed by reason of any alleged failure of the 
Association or Board of Directors to take some action or perform some 
function required to be taken or performed by the Association or Board 
of Direct ors under the Project Documents, or for inconvenience or 
discomfort arising from them making of repairs or improvements which 
are the responsibility of the Association, or from any action taken to 
comply with any law, ordinance, or with any order or direct ive of any 
county, municipal or other governmental  authority,  the obligation to 
pay assessments being a separate and independent covenant on the part 
of each Owner. 
12.5.9 Application of Payments. All payments shall be applied as follows: 
Additional Charges, delinquent assessments and current assessments. 
12.5.10 Foreclosure of Lien as Mortgage or Trust Deed. The lien for 
nonpayment of assessments may be enforced by sale or foreclosure of 
the Owner's interest therein by the Board of Directors. The sale or 
54
-33- 
foreclosure shall be conducted in the same manner as foreclosures in 
deeds of trust or mortgages or in any other manner permitted by law. In 
any foreclosure or sale, the Owner shall pay the costs and expenses of 
such proceedings, including but not limited to the cost of a foreclosure 
report, reasonable attorney's assessments, and a reasonable rental for the 
Unit during the pendency of the foreclosure action. The Association in 
the foreclosure action may require the appointment of a receiver to 
collect the rental without regard to the value of the mortgage security. 
The Board of Directors may bid for the Unit at foreclosure or other sale 
and hold, lease, mortgage, or convey the same. 
12.5.11 Appointment of Trustee. Declarant hereby conveys and warrants  
pursuant to U.C.A. Sections 57 -1-20 and 57 -8-45, to First American 
Title, Trustee, with power of sale, each Unit and all improvements to 
each Unit for the purpose of securing payment of assessments under the 
terms of the Declaration. If the Board of Directors elects to foreclose a 
lien in the same manner as foreclosures  in deeds of trust, then the Owner 
by accepting a deed to the Unit hereby irrevocably assents to the 
appointment  the attorney o f the Association, provided he or she is a 
member of the Utah State Bar, as Trustee or substitute Trustee, and 
hereby confers  upon said Trustee the power of sale set forth with 
particularity in Utah Code Annotated, Section 57 -1-23 (1953), as 
amended. In addition, Owner hereby transfers in trust to said Trustee all 
of his /her right, title and interest in and to the real property for the 
purpose of securing  his/her performance of the obligations set forth 
herein. 
12.5.12 Attorney in Fact. Each Owner, by accepting a deed to a Unit or other 
document of conveyance, hereby irrevocably appoints the Association 
as its attorney in fact to collect rent from any person renting its Unit, if 
the Unit is rented and Owner is delinquent in its assessments. Rent due 
shall be paid directly to the Association, upon written demand, until such 
time as the Owner's assessments are current; and the Owner shall credit 
the tenant or lessee, against rent due, for the amount of money paid to 
the Association. 
12.6. Liability of Board of Directors. The Association shall indemnify every officer and 
member of the Board of Directors against any and all expenses, including but not 
limited to attorney's fees reasonably incurred by or imposed upon any officer or 
Member of t he Board of Directors in connection with any action, suit, or other 
proceeding (including settlement of any suit or proceeding, if approved by the then 
Board of Directors) to which he or she may be a party by reason of being or having 
been an officer or Member of the Board of Directors. The officers and Members of 
the Board of Directors shall not be liable for any mistake of judgment, negligent or 
otherwise, except for their own individual willful misfeasance, malfeasance, 
misconduct, or bad faith. The officers and Members of the Board of Directors shall 
have no personal liability with respect to any contract or other commitment made 
by them, in good faith, on behalf of the Association (except to the extent that such 
55
-34- 
officers or Members of the Board of Directors may also be Members of the 
Association), and the Association shall indemnify and forever hold each such 
officer and Member of the Board of Directors free and harmless against any and all 
liability to others on account of any such contract or commitment. Any right to 
indemnification provided for herein shall be exclusive of any other rights to which 
any officer or Member of the Board of Directors, or former officer or Member of 
the Board of Directors, may be entitled. 
12.7. Insurance. The Board of Directors shall at all times purchase, maintain in force, and 
pay the premiums for insurance on the Common Areas and Facilities satisfying at 
least the following requirements: 
12.7.1 Property Insurance. Blanket property insurance using the standard 
“Special” or “All-Risk” building form. Loss adjustment shall be based 
upon replacement cost. For purposes of this sub -section, the term 
“casualty insurance” shall not mean or refer to “earthquake” or other 
special risks not included in the standard Utah Condominium project 
casualty policy. This additional coverage may be added by the Board of 
Directors as it deems necessary in its best judgment and in its sole 
discretion. 
12.7.2 Liability Insurance. Liability insurance with adequate limits of liability 
for bodily injury and property damage, consistent with that of similarly  
situated first class subdivisions in the county . If possible, the policy 
should be written on the comprehensive form and shall include not­ 
owned and hired automobile liability protection. 
12.7.3 Director's and Officer's Insurance. Adequate director's and officer's 
liability insurance (a.k.a. errors and omissions insurance), which shall 
include coverage without limitation, for any employee or other agent of 
Declarant which serves in such capacity, shall be made a party by reason 
of his or her services. 
12.7.4 Fidelity Bond. A separate fidelity bond in a reasonable amount to be  
determined by the Board of Directors to cover all non -compensated 
officers as well as all employees for theft of Association funds, subject 
to the following: 
12.7.4.1 Agents. Furthermore, where the Board of Directors or the 
Association has delegated some or all of the responsibility 
for the handling of funds to a management agent, such bonds 
are required for the management agent's officers, employees 
and agents handling or responsible for funds of, or 
administered on behalf of, the Board of Directors or the 
Association. 
12.7.4.2 Amount of Coverage. The total amount of fidelity bond 
coverage required shall be based upon the Board of 
56
-35- 
Director's best business judgment but shall not be less than 
the estimated maximum amount of funds , including reserve 
funds, in the custody of the Board of Directors, the 
Association, or the management agent, as the case may be, at 
any given time during the term of each bond. Nevertheless, 
in no event may the amount of such bonds be less than a sum 
equal to three (3) months' aggregate assessments on all Units, 
plus reserve funds. 
12.7.4.3 Quality of Coverage. The bonds required shall meet the 
following additional requirements: 
(a) they shall name the Board of Directors, the Association, and 
the Property Manager as obligee; 
(b) if the insurance contract or bond excludes coverage for 
damages caused by persons serving without compensation, 
and may use that exclusion as a defense or reason not to pay 
a claim, the insurance company shall, if possible, be required 
to waive that exclusion or defense; 
(c) the premiums on all bonds required herein for the Board of 
Directors and the Association (except for premiums on 
fidelity bonds maintained by a management agent for its 
officers, employees and agents) shall be paid by the Board of 
Directors or the Associat ion as part of the Common 
Expenses; and 
(d) the bonds shall provide that they may not be canceled or 
substantially modified, including cancellation for 
nonpayment of premium, without at least ten (10) days' prior 
written notice to the Board of Directors and the Association, 
to any Insurance Trustee,  and to each service of loans on 
behalf of any Mortgagee. 
12.7.5 Earthquake Insurance shall not be required unless requested by at least 
Seventy five percent (75%) of the Members of the Association. 
12.7.6 Miscellaneous Items. The following provisions shall apply to all  
insurance coverage: 
12.7.6.1 Quality of Carrier. A “B +” or better general policyholder's 
rating or a Class XII or better financial performance index 
rating in Best's Insurance Reports. 
12.7.6.2 The Insured. The name of the insured under each policy 
required to be maintained hereby shall be set forth therein 
substantially as follows: “WAREHOUSE Condos, for the 
57
-36- 
use and benefit of the individual Owners.” 
12.7.6.3 Designated Representative. The Association may designate 
an authorized representative of the Association, including 
any Insurance Trustee with whom the Association has 
entered into an Insurance Trust Agreement, or any successor 
to such Trustee, for the use  and benefit of the individual 
Owners. 
12.7.6.4 Beneficiary. In any policy covering the entire Project, each 
Owner and its Mortgagee, if any, shall be beneficiaries of the 
policy in an amount equal to the Owner's percentage of 
undivided Ownership interest in the Common Areas and 
Facilities. 
12.7.6.5 Certificate of Insurance. Evidence of insurance shall be 
issued to each Owner and Mortgagee upon request. 
12.7.6.6 Mortgage Provisions. Each policy shall contain a standard 
mortgage clause or its equivalent and shall provide that the  
policy may not be canceled or substantially modified without 
at least ten (10) days prior written notice to the Association 
and to each Mortgagee. 
12.7.6.7 Waiver of Subrogation. A waiver of the right of a 
subrogation against Owners individually. 
12.7.6.8 Individual Neglect. A provision that the insurance is not 
prejudiced by any act or neglect of any individual Owner. 
12.7.6.9 Deductible. The deductible on a claim made against the 
Association's Property Insurance Policy shall be paid for by 
the Association. 
12.7.6.10 Individual Insurance. Each Owner and resident shall 
purchase and maintain adequate liability and property 
insurance on his or her Unit, personal property and contents; 
provided, however, no Owner shall be entitled to exercise its 
right to maintain insurance coverage in such a way as to 
decrease the amount which the Association, on behalf of all 
the Owners and their mortgagees, may realize under any 
insurance policy which the Association may have in force on 
the Property at any particular time. 
12.7.6.11 Primary Coverage. The insurance coverage of a Owner shall, 
in the event the Association also has insurance covering the 
loss, be primary and the insurance of the Association shall be 
secondary. 
58
-37- 
12.7.6.12 Prompt Repair. Each Owner further covenants and agrees 
that in the event of any partial loss, damage or destruction of 
its Unit, the Owner shall proceed promptly repair or to 
reconstruct the damaged structure in a manner consistent 
with the original construction. 
12.7.6.13 Disbursement of Proceeds. Proceeds of insurance policies 
shall be disbursed to repair promptly and reasonably the 
damages. Any proceeds remaining thereafter shall be placed 
in the Capital Improvement Reserve Account and retained by 
and for the benefit of the Association.  This is a covenant for 
the benefit of the Association and any Mortgagee of a Unit, 
and may be enforced by them. 
12.7.6.14 Special Endorsements. Each policy shall also contain or 
provide those endorsements commonly purchased by other 
associations in similarly situated first class subdivisions in 
the county, including but not limited to a guaranteed 
replacement cost endorsement under which the insurer 
agrees to replace the insurable property regardless of the cost 
and; or a Replacement Cost Endorsement under which the 
insurer agrees to pay up to 100% of the property's insurable 
replacement cost, but no more, and, if the policy includes a 
coinsurance clause, an Agreed Amount Endorsement which 
waives the requirement for coinsurance; an Inflation Guard 
Endorsement when it can be obtained, a Building Ordinance 
or Law Endorsement, if the enforcement of any building, 
zoning or land -use law will result in loss or damage, 
increased cost of repairs or reconstruction, or additional 
demotion and removal costs, and increased costs of 
reconstruction; Steam Boiler and Machinery Coverage 
Endorsement if the Project has any central heating or 
cooling. 
12.7.6.15 Restrictions on Policies. No insurance policy shall be 
maintained where: 
(a) Individual Assessments Prohibited. Under the term 
of the carrier's charter, Bylaws, or policy, 
contributions may be required from, or assessments 
may be made against, an Owner, a borrower, a 
Mortgagee, the Board of Directors, the Association, 
V.A., FHA, FNMA, or their designees, 
(b) Payments Contingent. By the terms of the 
Declaration, Bylaws, or policy, payments are 
contingent upon action by the carrier's board of 
directors, policyholder, or Member; or 
59
-38- 
(c) Mortgage Limitation Provisions. The policy includes 
any limited clauses (other than insurance conditions) 
which could prevent the party entitled (including, 
without limitation, the Board of Directors, the 
Association, an Owner, or the borrowers) from 
collecting insurance proceeds. 
(d) Intent. The foregoing provisions shall not be 
construed to limit the power or authority of the 
Association, Board of Directors or Owners to obtain 
and maintain insurance coverage, in addition to any 
insurance coverage required hereunder, in such 
amounts an d in such forms as the Board  or 
Association may deem appropriate from time to time. 
12.8 Reinvestment Fee. The Property, including each Unit, is burdened by a  
Reinvestment Fee pursuant to § 57 -1-46 (5) et seq, Utah Code, Ann. The 
Reinvestment Fee shall be paid to the Association at the address stated in Section  
12.1.8.  The burden of the reinvestment fee covenant is intended to run with the 
land perpetually and to bind successors in interest and assigns. The existence of the 
Reinvestment Fee covenant precludes the imposition of an additional reinvestment 
fee covenant on the burdened property. 
12.8.1 Amount. Each transferee (other than Declarant) agrees to pay to the 
Association, upon the purchase or transfer of their respective Unit, in an 
amount of 0.5% of the sales price. The Board may increase or decrease 
this amount but in no case shall the Board require more than 0.5% of the 
gross sales price on any Unit. The Board may change the actual amount 
from time to time. 
12.8.2 The Reinvestment fee shall be waived for initial Buyers purchasing from 
the Declarant.  In case of all other transfers, the reinvestment fee shall 
be due and payable to the Association upon the earlier of the closing  or 
recordation of change of ownership. 
12.8.3 Purpose of the Fee.  The funds generated from the Reinvestment Fee 
shall only be used to benefit the burdened property and may only be 
spent on the following: common planning, facilities, and infrastructure; 
operating expenses ; reserve  account; obligations arising from an 
environmental covenant; community programming; common facilities; 
open space; recreation amenities; charitable purposes; or association 
expenses. 
12.8.4 The Reinvestment Fee shall not be enforced upon (a) an involuntary 
transfer; (b) a transfer that results from a court order; (c) a transfer to a 
family member of the seller within three degrees of consanguinity who, 
before the transfer, provides adequate proof of consanguinity; (d) a 
transfer by an Owner for estate planning purposes to any other 
60
-39- 
individual, or entity, including without limitation  a partnership, trust, 
limited-liability company, corporation, cooperative, or association , 
excluding a bona fide sale ; (e) a transfer or change of interest due to 
death, whether provided in a will, trust, or decree of distribution; or ( f) 
the transfer of burdened property by a financial institution, except to the 
extent that the reinvestment fee covenant requires the payment of a 
common interest association's costs directly related to the transfer of the 
burdened property. 
13. DESTRUCTION, CONDEMNATION, OBSOLESCENCE 
13.1. Destruction, Condemnation, and Obsolescence. The following provisions shall 
apply with respect to the destruction, condemnation, or obsolescence of the Project. 
13.2. Definitions. Each of the following terms shall have the meaning indicated: 
13.2.1. “Substantial Destruction” shall exist whenever, as a result of  any 
damage or destruction to the Project or any part thereof, the excess of 
the estimated cost of restoration over the funds available is Twenty-Five 
percent (25%) or more of the estimated restored value of the Project. 
13.2.2. “Partial Destruction” shall mean any other damage or destruction to 
the Project or any part thereof. 
13.2.3. “Substantial Condemnation” shall exist whenever a complete taking 
of the Project or a taking of part of the Project has occurred under 
eminent domain or by grant or conveyance in lieu of condemnation, and 
the excess of the estimated cost of restoration over the funds available is 
Twenty-Five (25%) percent or more of the estimated restored value of 
the Project. 
13.2.4. “Partial Condemnation” shall mean any other such taken by eminent 
domain or grant or conveyance in lieu thereof. 
13.2.5. “Substantial Obsolescence ” shall exist whenever the Project or any 
part thereof has reached such a state of obsolescence or disrepair that the 
excess of the estimated cost of restoration over the funds available is 
Twenty Five (25%) percent or more of the estimated restored value o f 
the Project. 
13.2.6. “Partial Obsolescence ” shall mean any state of obsolescence or 
disrepair which does not constitute Substantial Obsolescence. 
13.2.7. “Restored Value” shall mean the fair market value of the Project after 
Restoration as determined by an MAI or other qualified appraisal. 
13.2.8. “Estimated Cost of Restoration ” shall mean the estimated costs of 
restoring the Project to its former condition. 
61
-40- 
13.2.9. “Available Funds ” shall mean any proceeds of insurance, 
condemnation awards, payments in lieu of condemnation, and any 
uncommitted funds of the Board of Directors or insurance proceeds 
legally required to be paid to any party other than the Association, 
including a mortgag ee, or that portion of any condemnation award or 
payment in lieu of condemnation payable to the Owner or Mortgagee 
for the condemnation or taking of the Unit in which they are interested. 
13.3. Determination by Board of Directors. Upon the occurrence of any damage or 
destruction to the Project or any part thereof, or upon a complete or partial taking 
of the Project under eminent domain or by grant or conveyance in lieu thereof, the 
Board of Directors shall make a determination as to whether the excess of Estimated 
Costs of Restoration over Available Funds is twenty-five (25%) percent or more of 
the estimated Restored Value of the Project In addition, the Board of Directors shall, 
from time to time, review the condition of the Project to determine whether 
Substantial Obsolescence exists. In making such determ inations the Board of 
Directors may retain and rely upon one or more qualified appraisers or other 
professionals. 
13.4. Restoration of the Project. Restoration of the Project shall be undertaken by the 
Board of Directors promptly without a vote of the Owners in the event of Partial 
Destruction, Partial Condemnation, or Partial Obsolescence and shall also be  
undertaken in the event of Substantial Destruction, Substantial Condemnation, or 
Substantial Obsolescence  unless the failure to make Restoration  is consented to by 
Owners collectively holding at least sixty -seven (67%) percent of the Project's 
undivided Ownership interest and is further consented to by Eligible Mortgagees 
holding Mortgages on Units which have appurtenant at least fifty-one (51%) percent 
of the undivided ownership interest in the Common Areas and Facilities and 
Facilities which is then subject to Mortgages held by Eligible Mortgagees. 
13.5. Notices of Destruction or Obsolescence. Within thirty (30) days after the Board of 
Directors has determined that Substantial Destruction, Substantial Condemnation, 
or Substantial Obsolescence exists, it shall send to each Owner and Eligible 
Mortgagee a written description of the destruction, condemnation, or state of 
obsolescence involved, shall take appropriate steps to ascertain the preferences of 
the Eligible Mortgagees concerning Restoration, and shall, with or without a 
meeting of the Owners (but in any event in accordance with the applicable 
provisions of this Declaration), take appropriate steps to  determine  the preferences 
of the Owners regarding Restoration. 
13.6. Excess Insurance. If the insurance proceeds condemnation awards, or payments in  
lieu of condemnation actually received by the Board of Directors or Association 
exceed the cost of Restoration when Restoration is undertaken, then the excess 
funds shall be placed in the Capital Improvement Reserve Account and retained by 
and for the benefit of the Association. This covenant is also for the benefit of the 
Association and any Mortgagee, and therefore, may also be enforced by them. 
Payment to any Owner whose Unit is the subject of a Mortgage shall be made jointly 
to such Owner and the interested Mortgagee. 
62
-41- 
13.7. Inadequate Insurance. In the event the cost of Restoration exceeds Available Fund, 
all of the Units shall be assessed for the deficiency on the basis of their respective 
percentages of undivided Ownership interest in the Common Areas and Facilities. 
13.8. Reallocation in Event of Partial Restoration. In the event that all or any portion of 
one or more Units will not be the subject of Restoration (even though the Project 
will continue as a planned unit development) or is taken in a condemnation 
proceeding or pursuant to any agreement in lieu thereof; the undivided Ownership 
interest in the Common Areas and Facilities shall be immediately reallocated to the 
remaining Units. 
13.9. Sale of Project. Unless Restoration is accomplished as set forth above , the Project 
shall be sold in the event of Substantial Destruction, Substantial Condemnation, or 
Substantial Obsolescence. In the event of such sale, ownership under the 
Declaration and the Map shall terminate and the proceeds of sale and any Available 
Funds shall be distributed by the Board of Directors to the Owners in proportion to 
their respective undivided interest in the Common Areas and Facilities. Payment 
to any Owner whose Unit is then the subject of a Mortgage  shall be made jointly 
to such Owner and the interested Mortgagee. 
13.10. Authority of Board of Directors to Represent Owners in Condemnation or to 
Restore or Sell. The Board of Directors, as attorney -in-fact for each Owner, shall 
represent all of the Owners and the Association in any condemnation proceeding or 
in negotiations, settlements, and agreements with the condemning authority for the 
acquisition of all or any part of the Common Areas and Facilities. 
13.11. Settlement Proceeds. The award in any condemnation proceeding and the proceeds 
of any settlement related thereto shall be payable to the Association for the use and 
benefit of the Owners and their mortgagees as their interests may appear. 
13.12. Restoration Power, The Board of Directors, as attorney -in-fact for each Owner, 
shall have and is hereby granted full power and authority to restore or to sell the 
Project and each Unit therein whenever Restoration or sale, as the case may be, is 
undertaken as herein above provided. 
13.13. Right of Entry. Such authority shall include the right and power to enter into any 
contracts, deeds or other instruments which may be necessary or appropriate for 
Restoration or sale, as the case may be. 
 
14. MORTGAGEE PROTECTION 
14.1. Mortgagee Protection. The lien or claim against a Unit for unpaid assessments 
levied by the Board of Directors or by the Association pursuant to this Declaration 
or the Act shall be subordinate to any Mortgage recorded on or before the date such 
assessments become due. 
14.2. Effects of Voluntary and Involuntary Sale. The lien or claim against a Unit for such 
63
-42- 
unpaid assessments shall not be affected by any sale or transfer of such Unit, except 
that a sale or transfer pursuant to a foreclosure of the Mortgage affecting such Unit 
or the exercise of a power of sale available thereunder shall extinguish any debt 
payable prior to such sale or transfer. Nevertheless, any such unpaid assessments 
which are extinguished in accordance with the foreclosure or power of sale shall 
not relieve the purchaser or transferee of such Unit from liability for, nor such Unit 
the lien of any assessments becoming due thereafter. 
14.3. Books and Records Available for Inspection. The Board of Directors or the 
Association shall make available to the Owners, to Mortgagees, and lenders, and to 
holders, insurers, or guarantors of any Mortgage current copies of the Project 
Documents, as well as the books, records, and financial statements of the Board of 
Directors and the Association. The term “Available”, as used in the Paragraph, shall 
mean available for reasonable inspection upon request during normal business 
hours or under other reasonable circumstances. The Association shall have the right 
to recover its photocopying and service charges incurred in making the inspection 
and photocopying available. 
14.4. Right to Financial Statement. The holder, insurer or guarantor of any Mortgage shall 
be entitled, upon written request , to a financial statement for the immediately 
preceding fiscal year. Any financial statement requested pursuant hereto shall be 
furnished to the requesting party within a reasonable time following such request. 
The Association may charge a reasonable fee to  cover the creation, copying and 
postage for any documents requested by realtors, mortgage or title company, 
Owner, or authorized agent of Owner. 
14.5. Management Contracts. Any agreement for professional management of the 
Project, and any contract for goods or services, or any lease which is entered into 
by the Board of Directors, or the Association shall provide or be deemed to provide 
hereby that either party may terminate the contract with or without cause, penalty 
or severance charge, upon at least thirty (30) days prior written notice to the other 
party thereto. 
14.6. Eligible Mortgagee Designation. Upon written request to the Board of Directors or 
the Association by the holder, insurer, or guarantor of a Mortgage (which request 
identifies the name and address of such holder, insurer or guarantor and the Unit 
Number or address of the property encumbered by the Mortgage held or insured by 
such holder, insurer, or guarantor), such holder or insurer, or guarantor shall be 
deemed thereafter to be an “Eligible Mortgagee ” or “Eligible Insurer” or 
“Eligible Guarantor,” as the case may be, shall be included on the appropriate lists 
maintained by the Association, and shall be entitled to timely written notice of any 
of the following: 
14.6.1. Condemnation Loss or Award. Any condemnation loss or any casualty 
loss which affects a material portion of the Project or any Unit on which 
there is a Mortgage held, insured, or guaranteed by such Eligible Insurer 
or Guarantor. 
64
-43- 
14.6.2. Delinquency. Any delinquency in the payment of assessments owed by 
an Owner of a Unit subject to a Mortgage held, insured, or guaranteed 
by such Eligible Insurer or Guarantor, which delinquency remains 
uncured for a period of sixty days. 
14.6.3. Lapse of Insurance. Any lapse, cancellation, or material modification of 
any insurance policy or fidelity bond maintained by the Board of 
Directors or the Association. 
14.6.4. Consent Required . Any proposed action which would require the 
consent of specified percentage of Eligible Mortgagees. 
 
15. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 
15.1. Amendment. Subject to the conditions set forth herein this Declaration may be 
amended subject to the following: 
15.2. Consent of the Owners. The affirmative vote of at least sixty -seven (67%) percent 
of the votes cast of the Owners shall be required and shall be sufficient to amend  
the Declaration or the Map. Any amendment so authorized shall be accomplished 
through the recording of an instrument executed by the Board of Directors. In such 
instrument the Board of Directors shall certify that the vote required by this Section 
for amendment has occurred, and, if approval of a specified percentage of Eligible 
Mortgagees is required for such amendment, that such approval has been obtained; 
and 
15.3. Consent of Eligible Mortgagee. The consent of at least sixty -seven (67%) percent 
of the Eligible Mortgagees shall be required to any amendment which would 
terminate the legal status of the Project; and the consent of Eligible Mortgagees 
holding at least fifty-one percent (51%) of the undivided Ownership interest in the 
Common Areas and Facilities shall be required to add to or amend any material 
provision of this Declaration or the Map which establishes, provides for, governs, 
or regulates any of the following: 
15.3.1. voting rights; 
15.3.2. increases in assessments that raise the previously assessed amount by 
more than twenty-five (25%) percent assessment liens, or the priority of 
assessment liens; 
15.3.3. reduction in reserves for maintenance, repair, and replacement of the 
Common Areas and Facilities; 
15.3.4. insurance or fidelity bonds; 
15.3.5. limitations and restrictions on the right to use of the Common Areas and 
Facilities; 
65
-44- 
15.3.6. responsibility for maintenance and repairs; 
15.3.7. expansion or contraction of the Project or the addition, annexation or 
withdrawal of property to or from the Project; 
15.3.8. the boundaries of any Unit; 
15.3.9. the percentages of Ownership interest in the Common Areas and 
Facilities; 
15.3.10. convertibility of a Unit into Common Areas and Facilities or Common 
Area into a Unit; 
15.3.11. the imposition of any right of first refusal or similar restriction on the 
light of an Owner to sell, transfer, or otherwise convey its Unit; 
15.3.12. express benefits or rights of Mortgages, Eligible Mortgagees, or Eligible 
Insurers or Guarantors; and 
15.3.13. the requirement that the Project be professionally managed rather than 
self-managed; and further provided, that at least seventy -five percent 
(75%) of all votes in the Project shall be required to change management 
of the Project from professional management to self-management. 
15.3.14. Notice of any proposed amendment to any Eligible Mortgagee to whom 
a written request to approve an addition or amendment to this 
Declaration or the Map is required shall be mailed postage prepaid to  
the address for such Mortgagee shown on the list maintained by the 
Association. 
15.3.15. Except for the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, any Eligible Mortgagee 
who does not deliver to the Board of Directors or the Association a 
negative response to the notice of the proposed amendment within sixty 
(60) days from the date of such mailing shall be  deemed to have 
approved the proposal. 
15.3.16. The foregoing consent requirements shall not be applicable to 
amendments to this Declaration and the Map or the termination of the 
legal status of the Project as a Utah Condominium Project if such 
amendments or such termination are made or accomplished in 
accordance with the provisions of this Declaration regarding 
Condemnation or Substantial Obsolescence. 
15.3.17. Any addition or amendment shall not be considered material for 
purposes of Section 15.3 if it is for clarification only or to correct a 
clerical error. 
15.4. Notice and Hearing.  In the event the Board of Directors or a Unit Owner claims 
another Unit Owner or resident has violated the Project Documents , before any 
66
-45- 
sanction, citation, penalty, or Individual Assessment becomes final, the Owner or 
resident about whom the complaint has been made shall be entitled to the following 
rights of due process: 
15.4.1. Notice. Written notice specifying the nature of the violation (and 
providing any other appropriate information) and stating the time, date 
and place that the Member will have an opportunity to be heard by the 
Board of Directors. Written notice shall be given at le ast fifteen (15) 
days prior to the date set for the hearing and may be delivered either 
personally or by mail. If delivery is made by mail, it shall be deemed to 
have been delivered seventy-two (72) hours after it has been deposited 
in the United S tates mail, first class postage prepaid, addressed to the 
Member at the address given by the Member to the Board of Directors 
for the purpose of service of notice or to the address of the member's 
Unit if no other address has been provided. Any address may be changed 
from time to time by giving written notice to the Board of Directors. 
15.4.2. Costs and Assessments. If the violation, or the failure to correct or  
remedy a violation, results or may result in the expenditure of funds, the 
notice shall also state that the Board of Directors may vote to assess the 
adverse party, levy a fine, or impose other sanctions if the Board of 
Directors finds that a violation has occurred. 
15.4.3. Final Determination. After the hearing has taken place, the Board of 
Directors shall (1) determine whether a violation has occurred and, if so, 
may impose a fine or issue sanctions which shall become effective not 
less than five (5) days after the date of the hearing; or (2) take such other 
action as may be appropriate. The determination of the Board of 
Directors shall be final. However, nothing herein shall be construed to 
prevent the Board of Directors from making any emergency repairs or 
taking any other emergency action it deems necessary and subsequently 
providing Notice and Hearing. 
15.5. Limitation on Improvements by Association. Until the occurrence of the Transition 
Events, neither the Association, Board of Directors nor Unit Owners shall, without 
the written consent of Declarant, make any improvement to or alteration in any of 
the Common Areas and Facilities created or constructed by Declarant, other than 
such repairs, replacements, or similar matters as may be necessary to properly 
maintain the Common Areas and Facilities as originally created or constructed by 
Declarant. 
15.6. Declarant's Rights Assignable. All of the rights of Declarant under this Declaration 
may be assigned or transferred either by operation of law or through a voluntary 
conveyance, transfer or assignment. Any Mortgage covering all Units or Buildings 
in the Project title to which is vested in Declarant shall, at any given point in time 
and whether or not such Mortgage does so by its terms, automatically cover, 
encumber, and include all of the then unexercised or then unused rights, powers, 
authority, privileges, protection and controls which are accorded to Declarant (in its 
67
-46- 
capacity as Declarant) herein. 
15.7. Working Capital Fund. Working capital fund shall be established by Declarant to 
meet unforeseen expenditures or to purchase any additional equipment or services. 
The initial working capital fund shall be in an amount equal to two (2) months of 
estimated common assessments for each Unit. Each Unit's share of the working 
capital fund shall be collected either at the time the sale of any Unit is closed or 
when control of the Project is transferred to the Unit Owners, whichever first occurs. 
Any amounts paid into the working capital fund shall not be considered as advance 
payments of regular monthly assessments. The working capital fund shall be 
transferred to the Association for deposition to a segregated fund when control of 
the Association is transferred to the Unit Owners. Declarant is prohibited from using 
the working capital fund to defray any of its expenses, reserve contributions, or 
construction costs or to make up any budget deficits while it is in control of the 
Association. When a Unit is sold, howeve r, Declarant may reimburse itself for 
monies it has paid the Association for an unsold Unit's share of the working capital 
fund by using funds collected at closing when the Unit is sold. 
15.8. Transfer of Management. Anything to the contrary notwithstanding at any time 
before the Transition Events, Declarant may at any time relinquish its reserved right 
to select members of the Board of Directors, and to transfer management  of the 
Project to the Association. If and when  Declarant elects to do so, Declarant shall 
send written notification to each Owner of the effective date of the transfer (the 
“Transfer or Transition Date”) at least thirty (30) days prior thereto. Thereupon, 
the Owners shall call a meeting to elect the members of their own Board of Directors 
to take office as of the Transfer Date. Declarant covenants to cooperate with the 
Owners in effecting an orderly transition of management. Moreover, Declarant shall 
cause all obligations for Common Area expenses of the Board of Directors incurred 
prior to the Transfer Date to be paid in full on or before such date. 
15.9. Certain Provisions Applicable to Declarant. Anything to the contrary 
notwithstanding, for so long as Declarant continues to own any of the Units in the 
Project, the following provisions shall be deemed to be in full force and effect, none 
of which shall be  construed so as to relieve Declarant from any obligations of an 
Owner to pay assessments, except as herein otherwise provided. 
15.9.1. Declarant specifically disclaims any intent to have made any warranty 
or representation in connection with the Project or the Declaration 
except as specifically set forth herein or in any agreement for sale of a 
Unit, and no person shall rely upon any warr anty or representation not 
so specifically made therein. 
15.9.2. No amendment may be made to the Declaration without the written 
consent of Declarant until the occurrence of the Transition Events. 
15.10. Completion Obligation. Declarant hereby covenants in favor of each Owner that 
within three (3) years from the date of any contract of sale: 
68
-47- 
15.10.1. Units. Each Unit which an Owner has contracted to purchase, the 
Building within which a Unit is contained or is to be contained, and shall 
be substantially constructed, and ready for use or occupancy. 
15.10.2. Common Area. On the land submitted to the Declaration hereby or by 
any Supplemental Declaration, all planned, amenities , landscaping, 
green space, sidewalks, parking facilities, roads, streets, fences, outdoor 
lighting, and utility lines and conduits adjacent to the Unit or Building 
in which a Unit is located, and necessary for its use shall be substantially 
completed. 
15.11. Interpretation. To the extent Utah law is consistent with this Declaration, such 
provision shall supplement the terms hereof and are incorporated herein. The 
captions which precede the Sections of this Declaration are for convenience only 
and shall in no w ay affect the manner in which any provision hereof is construed. 
Whenever the context so requires, the singular shall include the plural, the plural 
shall include the singular, the whole shall include any part thereof; and any gender 
shall include both the genders. The invalidity or unenforceability of any portion of 
the Declaration shall not affect the validit y or enforceability of the remainder 
hereof. 
15.12. Enforcement and Right to Recover Attorney's Fees. The Association, Board of 
Directors, or any Unit Owner may take action, at law or in equity, to enforce the 
terms, covenants or conditions of the Project Documents. Should the Association, 
Board of Directors or a Unit Owner be required to take action to enforce the Project 
Documents, or to pursue any remedy provi ded hereunder or by applicable law, 
whether such remedy is pursued by filing suit or otherwise, they may recover all 
Additional Charges , including a  reasonable attorney's fee, which may arise or 
accrue. 
15.13. Agent for Service of Process.  After the occurrence of the Transition Events, the 
President of the Association shall be the person to receive service of process in the 
cases authorized by the Act and the office. The initial Registered Agent shall be 
Jacob Wolf and the initial office of the Registered Agent shall be 4413 N Forestdale 
Dr (Box H), Park City, UT 84098. 
15.14. Effective Date. This Declaration, any amendment or supplement hereto, and any 
amendment or supplement to the Map shall take effect upon its being filed for record 
in the office of the County Recorder of Summit County, Utah. 
 
  
69
-48- 
 
EXECUTED this    day of     , 20 . 
 
 
            
 
 
STATE OF     ) 
 
COUNTY OF     ) 
 
 On this    day of      personally appeared before 
me      whose identity is personally known to me or proven on the basis of 
satisfactory evidence and who by me duly sworn/affirmed, did say that he is the    
  of      and that said document was signed by him on behalf of said 
Company by Authority of its Members or Operating Agreement, and acknowledged to me that said 
Company executed the same 
 
     
Notary Public 
  
70
-49- 
 
EXHIBIT A 
Legal Property Description 
 
To include Units A through F of the WAREHOUSE CONDOMINIUMS plat together with any 
common area. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
71
-50- 
EXHIBIT B 
Common Ownership Percentage 
 
Unit Percent Interest in Common Elements 
Unit A  7.24%  
Unit B  10.50%  
Unit C  10.50%  
Unit D  7.24%  
Unit E  7.24%  
Unit F  57.30%  
Total 100.00% 
 
  
72
-51- 
EXHIBIT C 
Assigned Parking Spaces 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unit Assigned Parking Spaces 
Unit A  2, 56, 57, 58, 59 
Unit B 3, 4, 5, 52, 53, 54, 55 
Unit C 7, 8, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51 
Unit D 9, 10, 11, 45, 46 
Unit E 13, 14, 42, 43, 44 
Unit F 15, 17–41, 60, 61, 62 
Handicap 1, 6, 12, 16 
Total 100.00% 
73
74
75
76
77
 Community Development Department 
P.O. Box 128 
60 North Main Street 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
summitcountyutah.gov 
 
  
 
 
 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
To:   Snyderville Basin Planning Commission   
From:   Amir Caus, AICP, Senior Planner 
Date of Meeting: March 10, 2026 
Type of Item:   Plat Amendment - Possible Action 
Process:   Administrative Review 
File:   26-020 
 
 
Proposal 
 
The applicant, Randy Jones, on behalf of the property owners, HJ Silver Creek LP (Parcel SL-I-8-
4A-AM) and Anayas Real Estate LLC (SL-I-8-5A-AM), is requesting to amend the lot line shared 
by Lots 4 (Parcel SL-I-8-4A-AM) and 5 (SL-I-8-5A-AM) of the Silver Creek Unit I Block 8 
subdivision plat. 
 
Portions of the Anaya’s Market Complex improvements may be encroaching upon the property 
line shared by Parcel SL-I-8-4A-AM and SL-I-8-5A. Both owners have agreed to adjust the 
property line in order to mitigate this issue.  
 
 
Project Description 
 
Project Name: Silver Creek Unit I Block 8 Lots 4 and 5 Plat Amendment 
Applicant(s):   Leitbox Development Group, LLC, Randy Jones  
Property Owner(s):   HJ Silver Creek LP (Parcel SL-I-8-4A-AM) and Anayas Real Estate  
    LLC (SL-I-8-5A-AM) 
Location:   753 E Division St and 7047 N Pace Pl, Silver Creek, Summit County, 
    UT 
Zone District:   Community Commercial (CC) 
Parcel Number and Size: SL-I-8-4A-AM (4.39 acres) and SL-I-8-5A-AM (2.59 acres) 
Type of Process:   Administrative 
Final Land Use Authority: Snyderville Basin Planning Commission  
 
 
78
2 
 
Vicinity Map 
 
 
 
Background 
 
The Silver Creek Estates Unit I Subdivision plat was originally recorded in 1965.  Block 8 of the 
plat originally consisted of 8 lots ranging in acreage from 1.03 acres to 1.83 acres, however 
several lots have been combined, and the plat now consists of 4 lots ranging in acreage from 
1.42 acres to 4.39 acres.  There is no Development Agreement or Specially Planned Area 
associated with this property. 
 
In March of 2021, the owner of Parcel SL-I-8-4A-AM obtained a Low Impact Permit for a project 
known as Silver Creek Self Storage (File #20-041), a ~100,000 sq. ft., 3-building Self Storage 
project. The “Storage, self-service” use is allowed in the Community Commercial (CC) Zone, 
subject to an approval of a Low Impact Permit.   
 
In April of 2021, the owner of Parcel SL-I-8-5A-AM obtained a Low Impact Permit and 
Conditional Use Permit for a project now developed as Anaya’s Market Complex (File #20-202 
and #20-083), a ~28,500 sq. ft., 2-building mixed use project. 
 
The Silver Creek Self Storage project is under contract and during the due diligence, the 
purchaser discovered that portions of the Anaya’s Market Complex improvements may be 
encroaching upon the property line shared by the two properties. Both owners have agreed to 
adjust the property line in order to mitigate this issue. 
 
 
79
3 
 
 
Analysis and Findings 
 
Section 10-3-18(I) of the Snyderville Basin Development Code sets the following grounds for 
vacating or changing a plat: 
 
1. If the county manager or land use authority is satisfied that neither the public nor any 
person will be materially injured by the proposed vacation, alteration or amendment, 
and that there is good cause for the vacation, alteration, or amendment, the county 
manager or land use authority may vacate, alter or amend the plat, any  portion of the 
plat, or any road or lot. 
  
Analysis: Portions of the Anaya’s Market Complex improvements may be encroaching 
upon the property line shared by Parcel SL-I-8-4A-AM and SL-I-8-5A. Both owners have 
agreed to adjust the property line in order to mitigate this issue. Staff and applicable 
Service Providers have not found any evidence that the public nor any person would be 
materially injured by the amendment. COMPLIES 
 
2. No plat amendment shall be approved which results in an increase in density. 
 
Analysis: Density is defined in the Code as; The number of dwelling units per acre with 
respect to residential land uses. The amendment would not result in an additional 
residential unit. COMPLIES 
 
Public Notice, Meetings and Comments  
 
Per Section 10-3-18(G.4) of the Snyderville Basin Development Code;  
 
Any fee owner, as shown on the last county assessment rolls, of land within the subdivision 
that has been laid out and platted as provided in this section may, in writing, petition to 
have the plat, any portion of it, or any road or lot contained in it, vacated, altered or 
amended, as provided in this section.  
a. At the director's discretion, the public hearing requirement may be waived for 
plat amendments if the following criteria are met:  
(1) The name and address and consenting signatures of all owners of record of 
the land contained in the entire plat are submitted with the application; and  
(2) The name and address and consenting signatures of all owners of record of 
land adjacent to any road that is proposed to be vacated, altered or 
amended is submitted with the application.  
 
The applicant has acquired consent from all three owners within the Silver Creek Unit I Block 8 
plat. Accordingly, the Community Development Director has waived the public hearing 
requirement.  
 
80
4 
 
 
This item was publicly noticed as possible by the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission.  Notice 
of the possible action was published in the Park Record.  
 
As of the date of this Staff Report, no public comment has been received.  
 
Recommendation 
 
Staff recommend that the SBPC review the proposed Plat Amendment and approve the 
application, pursuant to the following Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Conditions of 
Approval: 
 
Findings of Fact:  
 
1. HJ Silver Creek LP is the owner of record of Parcel SL-I-8-4A-AM (4.39 acres), located at 
753 Division St, Silver Creek, Summit County, Utah.  
2. Anaya’s Real Estate LLC is the owner of record of Parcel SL-I-8-5A-AM (2.59 acres), 
located at 7047 N Pace Pl, Silver Creek, Summit County, Utah.  
3. The Silver Creek Estates Unit I Subdivision plat was originally recorded in 1965.   
4. Block 8 of the plat originally consisted of 8 lots ranging in acreage from 1.03 acres to 
1.83 acres, however several lots have been combined, and the plat now consists of 4 
lots ranging in acreage from 1.42 acres to 4.39 acres.   
5. There is no Development Agreement or Specially Planned Area associated with this 
property. 
6. In March of 2021, the owner of Parcel SL-I-8-4A-AM obtained a Low Impact Permit for a 
project known as Silver Creek Self Storage (File #20-041), a ~100,000 sq. ft., 3-building 
Self Storage project.  
7. In April of 2021, the owner of Parcel SL-I-8-5A-AM obtained a Low Impact Permit and 
Conditional Use Permit for a project now developed as Anaya’s Market Complex (File 
#20-202 and #20-083), a ~28,500 sq. ft., 2-building mixed use project. 
8. The Silver Creek Self Storage project is under contract and during the due diligence, the 
purchaser discovered that portions of the Anaya’s Market Complex improvements may 
be encroaching upon the property line shared by the two properties. Both owners have 
agreed to adjust the property line in order to mitigate this issue. 
 
9. Service providers have reviewed the plat amendment for compliance with applicable 
standards.  
10. Staff has reviewed the plat amendment for compliance with applicable Development 
Code standards. 
11. Per Section 10-3-18(G.4) of the Snyderville Basin Development Code;  
 
Any fee owner, as shown on the last county assessment rolls, of land within the 
subdivision that has been laid out and platted as provided in this section may, in writing, 
petition to have the plat, any portion of it, or any road or lot contained in it, vacated, 
altered or amended, as provided in this section.  
 
81
5 
 
 
a. At the director's discretion, the public hearing requirement may be waived for 
plat amendments if the following criteria are met:  
(1) The name and address and consenting signatures of all owners of record of the 
land contained in the entire plat are submitted with the application; and  
(2) The name and address and consenting signatures of all owners of record of land 
adjacent to any road that is proposed to be vacated, altered or amended is submitted 
with the application.  
 
12. The applicant has acquired consent from all three owners within the Silver Creek Unit I 
Block 8 plat. 
13. Per Section 10-3-18(G.4) of the Snyderville Basin Development Code, the Community 
Development Director has waived the public hearing requirement. 
14. This item was publicly noticed as possible action by the Snyderville Basin Planning 
Commission.  Notice of the possible action was published in the Park Record.  
15. As of the date of this Staff Report, no public comment has been received.  
 
Conclusions of Law: 
 
1. Neither the public nor any person will be materially injured by the proposed and there is 
good cause for the amendment.   
2. This amendment will not increase density.  
 
Conditions of Approval: 
 
1. All service provider requirements shall be met.  
2. Prior to issuance of a Building Permit for any structure, the proposed plats shall be 
recorded in the office of the Summit County Recorder. 
 
Attachments 
 
Exhibit A – Existing Conditions Survey 
Exhibit B – Proposed Plats 
 
 
82
EXHIBIT A.1
83
EXHIBIT A.2
84
Δ
Δ
2/23/2026
February 23, 2026
EXHIBIT B.1
85
Δ
2/23/2026
February 23, 2026
EXHIBIT B.2
86
 Community Development Department 
P.O. Box 128 
60 North Main Street 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
summitcounty.org 
 
  
 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
To:   Snyderville Basin Planning Commission   
From:   Amir Caus, AICP, Senior Planner  
Date of Meeting: March 10, 2026 
Type of Item:  Development Code Amendment – Public Hearing and Possible Action 
Process:   Legislative Review 
Files:   26-029 
   
 
Proposal 
 
Staff are requesting a Snyderville Basin Development Code Amendment for Section 10-8-2 Sign 
Regulations and associated Definitions. The proposed amendments include the addition of 
digital displays for Freestanding Signs, including Fuel Station Price Signs, and Resort Entry 
Information and Event Digital Signs. The amendment also includes the addition of Drive-
Through Menu Signs. As part of the overall amendments, Staff are taking the opportunity to 
adopt additional definitions, grammatic and stylistic changes in order to better match, and 
reference the updated Snyderville Basin Development Code. Staff have included in the exhibit 
package the redlined and clean versions of the proposed changes.    
  
Background 
 
For more than two decades, digital display drive-through menu signs have been incorporated 
throughout the United States for fast service restaurants. While digital displays are a common 
industry practice throughout the United States, the Snyderville Basin Development Code 
prohibits Changeable Copy Sings and does not expand on drive-through menu signs for fast 
service restaurants.  
 
The Summit County Council (Council) has recently experienced an increase in Special Exception 
application requests to Snyderville Basin Development Code Section 10-8-2(G) to allow for 
Drive-Through Menu Signs. While the Council approved one of the applications, the Council 
directed Staff to return with a Development Code Amendment to allow for these.  
 
Restauranteurs and sign manufacturers have confirmed that the industry has largely moved 
toward digital display drive-through menu signs and printed menu boards have become 
outdated, inefficient, and difficult to source replacement parts for. Printed menu boards 
require manual changes, often after hours, for pricing, promotions, or seasonal items, leading 
to delays and printing costs. This leads to restaurants showing outdated or inconsistent menus  
87
2 
 
 
due to delays in printing, shipping, or updating of the static menu boards. Static menu boards 
offer limited accessibility due to their lack of adaptive technology such as screen contrast 
adjustments or language translation. 
 
The many advantages of updating quick serve restaurants to digital order points include real 
time updates, energy efficiency, improved customer experience, sustainability and increased 
order accuracy and speed. Since the board communicates to a way port switch within the 
restaurant via data cables, the changes to pricing, nutrition information, and availability can be 
made instantly. The modern Light Emitting Diode (LED) displays are energy-efficient and can 
be programmed to operate only during business hours. Digital boards are easier to read, 
especially for seniors or low-vision individuals, and allow for visual enhancements such as high-
resolution images. Making the switch from static to digital menu boards would reduce paper 
and plastic waste associated with printed materials, supporting the city’s environmental goals. 
Digital displays support suggestive selling and clearer menu layouts, reducing confusion and 
customer wait times. 
 
Digital display drive-through menu signs are functionally distinct from general advertising 
signage. Unlike typical electronic signs that are intended to attract customers from the roadway 
or the surrounding area, a stationary drive-through menu screen serves only on-site patrons 
who have already entered the property. Its purpose is to facilitate ordering and menu accuracy, 
rather than to advertise to the general public. 
 
As part of the overall amendments, Staff are taking this opportunity to include digital displays 
for Fuel Station Price Signs. The purpose of this section is to provide clear, functional digital 
signage for fuel stations. 
 
Staff have also received a request from representatives of the Canyons Resort regarding event 
related signage. Based on conversations with the Canyons Resort representatives and the 
intent of the sign regulations, Staff have included an amendment for digital displays Resort 
Entry Information and Event Digital Signs that would be associated with Resort Centers only. 
The purpose of this section is to provide clear, functional digital signage at Resort entries to 
communicate resort-specific information that may include wayfinding/directional information, 
real-time operational information (e.g. parking availability, trail or lift status, shuttle schedules, 
and wind holds), event names/dates/times/locations, and public safety/emergency/weather 
related notifications.  
 
As part of the overall amendments, Staff are taking this opportunity to adopt additional 
definitions, grammatic and stylistic changes in order to better match, and reference the 
updated Snyderville Basin Development Code. Staff have included in the exhibit package the 
redlined and clean versions of the proposed changes.    
 
Analysis  
 
Section 10-8-2(G) of the Snyderville Basin Development Code states;  
 
88
3 
 
 
Prohibited Signs and Devices: The following signs shall be prohibited in the Snyderville Basin: 
1. Changeable Copy Signs: A sign whose informational content can be changed or altered 
on a fixed surface composed of electrically illuminated or mechanically driven 
changeable segments, unless required by federal law… 
 
Amendments to Snyderville Basin Development Code 
 
Per Snyderville Basin Development Code MPD Section 10-7-3;  
 
Amendment Procedures: 
 
1. Amendment To Text Of This Title: Whenever there is initiated an amendment to the text of 
this title, such amendments shall be accomplished in the following manner: 
 
a. A copy of the proposed amendment shall be delivered to the commission for its review and 
recommendation. Prior to making a recommendation, the commission shall hold a public 
hearing regarding the proposed amendment. 
 
b. The commission's recommendation shall be delivered to the county council. The county 
council, after holding a public hearing, shall either approve, approve with modifications or deny 
the amendment. 
 
c. Criteria for approving an amendment to the text of this title: 
 
(1) The amendment shall be consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of the general 
plan. 
 
Analysis: The proposed amendments modernize the Snyderville Basin Development 
Code Sign Regulations, fix outdated references, and make other necessary minor 
adjustments. The amendments do not negatively affect the goals, objectives, and 
policies of the general plan. COMPLIES  
 
(2) The amendment shall not permit the use of land that is not consistent with the uses of 
properties nearby. 
 
Analysis: The proposed amendments do not affect existing land uses. COMPLIES  
 
(3) The amendment will not permit suitability of the properties affected by the proposed 
amendment for the uses to which they have been restricted. 
 
Analysis: The proposed amendments modernize the Snyderville Basin Development 
Code. COMPLIES  
 
(4) The amendment will not permit the removal of the then existing restrictions which will 
unduly affect nearby property. 
89
4 
 
 
Analysis: The proposed amendments further expand the Snyderville Basin Development 
Code processes, fix outdated references, and make other necessary minor adjustments. 
As part of the proposed language, Staff have introduced language that utilizes the 
lowest brightness and warmest temperature settings in order to meet the intent of the 
development code and general plan. Staff have also included the requirement for a cap 
on the top of the drive-through menu signs in order to reduce light spill. COMPLIES  
 
(5) The amendment will not grant special favors or circumstances solely for one property 
owner or developer. 
 
Analysis: The proposed amendments do not grant special favors or circumstances for 
one property owner. COMPLIES  
 
(6) The amendment will promote the public health, safety and welfare better than the 
existing regulations for which the amendment is intended to change. (Ord. 708, 12-10-
2008) 
 
Analysis: Digital display drive-through menu signs are functionally distinct from general 
advertising signage. Unlike typical electronic signs that are intended to attract 
customers from the roadway or the surrounding area, a stationary drive-through menu 
screen serves only on-site patrons who have already entered the property. Its purpose is 
to facilitate ordering and menu accuracy, rather than to advertise to the general public.  
 
Likewise, the Resort Entry Information and Event Digital Signs are not intended for 
advertising and are meant to provide arrival information, wayfinding, event-related 
messages, and real-time operational information. 
 
The proposed Fuel Station Price Sign language allows for digital displays that have been 
adopted throughout the United States. These signs provide clear, functional digital 
signage for fuel stations. Additionally, they improve energy efficiency, often using up to 
75% less power than traditional signs. 
 
The proposed amendments modernize the Snyderville Basin Development Code Sign 
Regulations, fix outdated references, and make other necessary minor adjustments. 
COMPLIES  
 
Public Notice, Meetings and Comments 
 
This item was publicly noticed as a public hearing with possible action by the Snyderville Basin 
Planning Commission.  Notice of the public hearing was published in the newspaper.  
 
As of the date of this report, no public comment has been received. 
 
 
90
5 
 
 
Recommendation 
 
Staff recommends that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission review the proposed 
language amending Snyderville Basin Development Code Sign Regulations, conduct a public 
hearing, and vote to approve the amendments based on the following Findings of Fact and 
Conclusions of Law.  
 
Findings of Fact 
 
1. Section 10-8-2(G) of the Snyderville Basin Development Code states;  
 
Prohibited Signs and Devices: The following signs shall be prohibited in the Snyderville 
Basin: 
 
Changeable Copy Signs: A sign whose informational content can be changed or altered 
on a fixed surface composed of electrically illuminated or mechanically driven 
changeable segments, unless required by federal law… 
 
2. For more than two decades, digital menu screens have been incorporated throughout 
the United States for fast service restaurants.  
3. While digital displays are a common industry practice throughout the United States, the 
Snyderville Basin Development Code prohibits Changeable Copy Sings and does not 
expand on digital menu signs for fast service restaurants.  
4. The Summit County Council (Council) has recently experienced an increase in Special 
Exception application requests to Snyderville Basin Development Code Section 10-8-2(G) 
to allow for Changeable Copy Signs (drive-through menu screens). While the Council 
approved one of the applications, the Council directed Staff to return with a 
Development Code Amendment to allow for these.  
5. Staff are requesting a Snyderville Basin Development Code Amendment for Section 10-
8-2 Sign Regulations and associated Definitions.  
6. The proposed amendments include the addition of digital displays for Freestanding 
Signs, including Fuel Station Price Signs, and Resort Entry Information and Event Digital 
Signs.  
7. The amendment also includes the addition of Drive-Through Menu Signs.  
8. As part of the overall amendments, Staff are taking the opportunity to adopt additional 
definitions, grammatic and stylistic changes in order to better match, and reference the 
updated Snyderville Basin Development Code.  
9. Digital display drive-through menu signs are functionally distinct from general 
advertising signage. Unlike typical electronic signs that are intended to attract 
customers from the roadway or the surrounding area, a stationary drive-through menu 
screen serves only on-site patrons who have already entered the property. Its purpose is 
to facilitate ordering and menu accuracy, rather than to advertise to the general public.  
 
 
91
6 
 
 
10. The Resort Entry Information and Event Digital Signs are not intended for advertising 
and are meant to provide arrival information, wayfinding, event-related messages, and 
real-time operational information. 
11. The proposed Fuel Station Price Sign language allows for digital displays that have been 
adopted throughout the United States. These signs provide clear, functional digital 
signage for fuel stations. Additionally, they improve energy efficiency, often using up to 
75% less power than traditional signs. 
12. The proposed amendments modernize the Snyderville Basin Development Code Sign 
Regulations, fix outdated references, and make other necessary minor adjustments. 
 
Conclusions of Law 
 
1. The amendment is consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of the General 
Plan. 
2. The amendments will not permit the use of land that is not consistent with the uses of 
properties nearby. 
3. The amendments will not permit suitability of the properties affected by the proposed 
amendment for the uses to which they have been restricted. 
4. The amendments will not permit the removal of the then existing restrictions which will 
unduly affect nearby property. 
5. The amendments will not grant special favors or circumstances solely for one property 
owner or developer. 
6. The amendments will promote the public health, safety, and welfare better than the 
existing regulations for which the amendments are intended to change. 
 
Attachments 
 
Exhibit A – Clean Language  
Exhibit B – Redlined Language 
92
10-8-2: SIGN REGULATIONS: 
 
A. Purpose: The purpose of this section is to promote and protect the public health, 
safety and welfare of the general public by implementing outdoor advertising 
regulations to protect property values, create an attractive economic and business 
climate and enhance the aesthetic appearance of the community, and ensure that 
the constitutionally guaranteed right of free expression is protected. It is further 
intended to reduce Signs or advertising distractions and obstructions that may 
contribute to clutter or traffic accidents. 
 
B. Permit Requirements: 
 
1. It is unlawful for any person to erect, construct, alter or relocate any Sign, 
other than such Signs specifically described in subsection H, "Exempted 
Signs", of this section, without first obtaining a permit. Routine maintenance 
or repairing existing like parts shall not be considered an alteration; provided 
that such change does not alter the surface dimensions, height, message, or 
otherwise make the Sign nonconforming. 
 
2. Application for the permit shall be made to the Director or designated 
planning staff member and shall include the following: 
 
a. The name, address and telephone number of the Applicant, Owner 
and occupant of the property. 
 
b. Location of the Structure or parcel of property on which the Sign will 
be attached or erected. 
 
c. Position of the Sign in relation to nearby Buildings, Structures, 
property lines, Rights of Way and roads. 
 
d. A copy of plans and specifications showing material and method of 
construction, illumination, electrical wiring, location and support. 
 
e. Sketch showing Sign faces, exposed surfaces and proposed 
message, accurately represented in scale as to size, area, 
proportions and color. 
 
f. The name of the person erecting the sign. 
 
g. Written consent of the Owner of the Building, Structure or land on 
which the Sign is to be erected. 
 
h. On any Application for a Temporary Sign, the Applicant shall list the 
EXHIBIT A.1
93
earliest date on which the Sign may be established and the date on 
which the Sign shall be removed. 
 
3. Before granting a permit under this subsection, every Applicant shall pay the 
required permit fee to the county for each Sign. 
 
4. The Director or designated planning staff member shall approve, approve 
with conditions, or deny the Sign permit within thirty (30) days from the date 
of the submittal of a complete Application. 
 
C. Sign Design: It is recognized that it is desirable to have some diversity of Sign design 
within the Snyderville Basin. However, it is also desirable to ensure that materials 
and color schemes used on Signs shall be compatible with the image of the 
Snyderville Basin community and mountain environment. 
 
D. Comprehensive Sign Plans: Uses that are subject to the provisions of a previously 
approved Comprehensive Sign Plan may choose to continue the use of that Sign 
plan, or if all parties to the Comprehensive Sign Plan agree in writing to no longer 
utilize the Comprehensive Sign Plan, they may comply with the provisions of this 
section. In no case may a combination of a Comprehensive Sign Plan and the 
provisions of this section be used together. 
 
E. Permitted Signs: 
 
1. Nonresidential Signs: The following types of Signs are allowed for 
permanent, nonresidential Uses. Signs permitted under this regulation are 
intended to identify the Use located on the premises upon which the Sign is 
located, unless otherwise stated in this section. 
 
2. Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following definitions will be 
used: 
 
MULTIPLE USES: Any lot, Building, or other Structure or tract of land that has been 
designated for multiple nonresidential Uses, through the approval of a 
Development Permit. 
 
SINGLE USE: Any Lot, Building, or other Structure or tract of land that has been 
designated for one nonresidential Use, through the approval of a Development 
Permit. 
 
3. Types Of Signs: 
 
a. Freestanding Sign: Freestanding Signs are supported by poles, 
braces, or uprights extending from the ground or an object on the 
EXHIBIT A.2
94
ground and are not attached to any part of a Building. All Freestanding 
Signs shall comply with the following: 
 
(1) Number Of Signs: One Freestanding Sign shall be permitted for 
each separate primary vehicular access to the parcel, up to a 
maximum of two (2) signs. The primary vehicular access is that 
access located adjacent to the primary parking area. 
 
(2) Location/Setbacks: Freestanding Signs shall be located 
adjacent to the primary vehicular access to the parcel. In no 
case shall a Freestanding Sign encroach into a road Right-of-
Way, nor shall any Sign be situated near an intersection in 
such a manner so as to interfere with vehicular sight distance. 
These Signs shall be set back at least fifteen feet (15') from the 
edge of the Right-of-Way. 
 
(3) Monument Base: All Freestanding Signs shall be constructed 
with a monument base. A base of stone or wood is preferable. 
 
(4) Display Area Size: The display area of all Freestanding Signs for 
a single Use shall not exceed thirty (30) square feet in size. The 
display area of all Freestanding Signs for a parcel containing 
multiple Uses shall not exceed forty five (45) square feet. The 
display area of a Sign, which may be double sided, shall 
include any architectural embellishments or background 
materials that are an integral part of the display and intended 
to help attract attention to the Sign. Digital displays are 
permitted provided they: 
 
(A) are static only (no flashing, scrolling, or video); 
 
(B) include automatic dimming controls that adjust 
brightness based on ambient light levels and shall not 
exceed 1,000 lumens for brightness and 2,800 Kelvin for 
temperature; and 
 
(C) are fully shielded and oriented away from residential 
Uses. 
 
(D) Malfunctioning signs shall be powered off until the Sign 
is repaired.
 
 
(5) Height: In no case shall the highest point of a Freestanding 
Sign be more than six feet (6') above the grade elevation at the 
EXHIBIT A.3
95
base of the Sign. 
 
(6) Materials: Freestanding Signs shall be constructed of wood, 
stone or other natural materials. Plastic, lexan or similar 
materials are allowed for individual letters only. 
 
(7) Landscaped Area: All Freestanding Signs shall be located 
within a landscaped area. Landscaping, including shrubs, 
perennials, trees, other appropriate vegetative materials, and 
landscape boulders where appropriate, shall be designed in a 
manner that minimizes the visual impact of the Sign, without 
blocking the view of the Sign from the specific area from which 
it is intended to be seen, or adversely affecting pedestrian and 
vehicular sight distance. Designs that integrate the Sign into 
the land form should be considered. 
 
(8)  Additional Standards for Fuel Station Price Signs:  
 
(A) Fuel Station Price Signs are permitted only as an 
accessory element of a Freestanding Sign for an 
approved Gas and Fuel, Storage and Sales, or Gasoline 
Service Station with Convenience Store Use.  
 
(B) 
Fuel Station Price Signs shall be allowed for an 
additional twelve (12) square feet of display area . 
 
(9) Additional Standards for Resort Entry Information and Event 
Digital Signs:  
 
(A) Resort Entry Information and Event Digital Signs are only 
allowed at the primary entrance of a Resort within the Resort 
Center (RC) Zone District. A maximum of one (1) Resort Entry 
Information and Event Digital Sign is permitted per Resort 
entry, unless otherwise approved through a Comprehensive 
Sign Plan. 
 
(B) Resort Entry Information and Event Digital Signs shall 
be oriented away from residential Uses and fully 
shielded from the view of Adjacent dwellings. 
 
b. Primary Wall Sign, Secondary Wall Sign, Projecting Sign, Suspended 
Sign, And Awning Sign: Each nonresidential Use may choose to utilize 
EXHIBIT A.4
96
three (3) out of the five (5) types of Signs, as described below. In no 
case may two (2) or more of the same types of Signs be used per each 
Use. 
 
(1) Wall Mounted Signs: Wall Mounted Signs are those Signs that 
are attached to or painted on the wall of a Building, the display 
surface of the Sign being parallel to the wall of the Building on 
which the Sign is placed. 
 
(A) Primary Wall Sign: A Wall Mounted Sign that is located 
on the facade of the Building that contains the primary 
access to the particular Use. A primary Wall Mounted 
Sign shall not exceed one square foot of Sign Area for 
each two (2) linear feet of Building facade frontage, up 
to a maximum of sixty (60) square feet. 
 
In the case of multiple users in one Building, the 
frontage shall include the length of the individual suite 
that is exposed to the exterior of the Building where the 
primary access to the Use is located. In no case shall 
the primary wall sign be less than ten (10) square feet in 
size. 
 
In cases where a Use does not contain exterior 
exposure to a Building for the purposes of measuring 
Sign Area, that use may have a ten (10) square foot Sign. 
 
(i) Size Exception: In the case of a single Building 
where at least one facade is two hundred fifty 
(250) linear feet in length or more, the maximum 
size of the primary wall Sign may not exceed 
seventy-five (75) square feet. 
 
(ii) Location Exception: In the case of a single 
Building where at least one facade is two 
hundred fifty (250) linear feet in length or more, 
the primary wall Sign may be located as deemed 
appropriate by the entity requesting the Sign. 
 
(B) Secondary Wall Sign: A Sign that is located on a Building 
facade that is separate from the facade on which the 
primary wall Sign is located. A secondary wall Sign shall 
not exceed a maximum of one-half (1/2) the size of the 
permitted primary wall Sign. 
EXHIBIT A.5
97
 
(C) Display Area: The area of all wall mounted business 
Signs shall be the extreme limits of the display surface. 
The display surface includes any architectural 
embellishments or background materials that are an 
integral part of the display and used to differentiate the 
Sign from its surroundings. 
 
(D) Wall Mounted Signs: Wall Mounted Signs shall not 
project out more than six inches (6") from the wall on 
which they are mounted. 
 
(E) Materials: Wall Mounted Signs shall be wood, metal, 
other natural materials, or painted on the side of the 
Building. Plastic, lexan, or similar materials are allowed 
for individual letters only. 
 
(2) Projecting Signs: Projecting Signs are supported by a Building 
or other Structure and project out from the Building or 
Structure over the sidewalks, lawns, or similar areas in a 
manner that the display area is generally perpendicular to the 
face of the Building or Structure. 
 
(A) Size: Projecting Signs shall not exceed eight (8) square 
feet. 
 
(B) Display Area: The area of a Projecting Sign shall be the 
extreme limits of the display surface. The display 
surface also includes any architectural embellishments 
or background materials that are an integral part of the 
display and used to differentiate the Sign from its 
surroundings. 
 
(C) Height: Signs which project over a pedestrian walkway 
shall allow at least seven and one-half feet (7.5') of 
clearance between the bottom of the Sign and the 
ground. Hanging Signs may be illuminated; provided, 
that only indirect lighting is utilized, and that the light 
source does not interfere with pedestrian or vehicular 
traffic. 
 
(D) Materials: Projecting Signs shall be constructed of 
wood, metal or similar material. Plastic, lexan or similar 
materials are allowed for individual letters only. 
EXHIBIT A.6
98
 
(3) Suspended Sign: A Sign that is suspended parallel or 
perpendicular from a Building roof, facade, porch, or other 
structural element by brackets, hooks, or chains. 
 
(A) Size: Suspended Signs shall not exceed eight (8) square 
feet. 
 
(B) Display Area: The area of a suspended Sign shall be the 
extreme limits of the display surface. The display 
surface also includes any architectural embellishments 
or background materials that are an integral part of the 
display and used to differentiate the Sign from its 
surroundings. 
 
(C) Height: Suspended Signs shall allow at least seven and 
one-half feet (7.5') of clearance between the bottom of 
the Sign and the ground. Suspended Signs may be 
illuminated; provided, that only indirect lighting is 
utilized, and that the light source does not interfere with 
pedestrian or vehicular traffic. 
 
(D) Materials: Suspended Signs shall be constructed of 
wood, metal or similar material. Plastic, lexan or similar 
materials are allowed for individual letters only. 
 
(4) Awning Signs: Awning Signs are comprised of letters and logos 
that are placed on the valance of the awning. 
 
(A) The words and logos on any Awning Sign shall not 
exceed nine inches (9") in height. 
 
(B) Backlighted awnings are prohibited. 
 
c. Subdivisions, Multi-Family Dwellings, And Residential Condominium 
Complex Signs: These Signs are intended to state the name of a 
Subdivision, multi-family development, or residential condominium 
complex. 
 
(1) Freestanding Signs: One Freestanding Sign shall be permitted 
for each separate primary vehicular access to a Subdivision, 
Multi- Family Dwelling development, or residential 
condominium complex. All Freestanding Signs shall comply 
with the following: 
EXHIBIT A.7
99
 
(A) Monument Base: All Freestanding Signs shall be 
constructed with a monument base. A base of stone or 
wood is preferable. 
 
(B) Display Area Size: The display area of all Freestanding 
Signs shall not exceed thirty (30) square feet in size. The 
display area of a Sign, which may be double sided, shall 
include any architectural embellishments or 
background materials that are an integral part of the 
display and intended to help attract attention to the 
Sign (see illustration 1 of this section). 
 
(C) Height: In no case shall the highest point of a 
Freestanding Sign be more than six feet (6') above the 
grade elevation at the base of the Sign. 
 
(D) Materials: Freestanding Signs shall be constructed of 
wood, stone or other natural materials. Plastic, lexan or 
similar materials are allowed for individual letters only. 
 
(E) Landscaped Area: All Freestanding Signs shall be 
located within a landscaped area. Landscaping, 
including shrubs, perennials, trees, other appropriate 
vegetative material, and landscape boulders where 
appropriate, shall be designed in a manner that 
minimizes the visual impact of the Sign, without 
blocking the view of the Sign from the specific area from 
which it is intended to be seen, or adversely affecting 
pedestrian and vehicular sight distance. Designs that 
integrate the Sign into the land form should be 
considered. 
 
(F) Setbacks: In no case shall a Freestanding Sign 
encroach into a road Right-of-Way, nor shall any Sign be 
situated near an intersection in such a manner so as to 
interfere with vehicular sight distance. These Signs shall 
be set back at least fifteen feet (15') from the edge of 
the Right-of-Way. 
 
d. Drive-Through Menu Signs: Each drive-through lane may have 
one (1) pre-order Sign and one (1) primary menu Sign. The 
following shall apply to all Drive-Through Menu Signs as 
outlined herein: 
EXHIBIT A.8
100
 
(A) Drive-Through Menu Signs shall be located within the 
drive-through lane and oriented away from public roads 
to minimize off-site visibility and driver distraction.  
 
(B) Drive-Through Menu Signs shall not be placed within 
required landscape areas or obstruct required vehicle 
circulation areas. 
 
(C) Setbacks: Drive-Through Menu Signs must be located 
on premises and may not encroach into a road Right-of-
Way, nor shall any Sign be situated near an intersection 
in such a manner so as to interfere with vehicular sight 
distance. These signs shall be Setback at least fifteen 
feet (15') from the edge of the Right-of-Way.  
 
(D) The pre-order Sign shall not exceed ten (10) square feet 
in Sign Area or five (5) feet above the grade elevation at 
the base of the Sign. 
 
(E) The primary menu Sign shall not exceed twenty (20) 
square feet in Sign Area or six (6) feet above the grade 
elevation at the base of the Sign.  
 
(F) Internal illumination and electronic displays are 
permitted only if static and non-flashing. 
 
(G) All digital menu Signs shall include automatic dimming 
controls that adjust brightness based on ambient light 
levels and shall not exceed 1,000 lumens for the 
brightness and 2,800 Kelvin for the temperature. 
 
(H) Drive-Through Menu Signs shall be fully shielded to 
prevent glare or light-spill onto Adjacent properties and 
roads. 
 
(I) Drive-Through Menu Signs shall utilize motion lighting in 
order to reduce brightness when customers are not in 
queue.  
 
(J) Speaker boxes may be used for ordering purposes only 
and shall not be used for music or advertising.  
 
(L) Malfunctioning digital Signs shall be powered off until 
EXHIBIT A.9
101
the Sign is repaired. 
 
e. T emporary Signs: "Temporary Sign" means any Sign or advertising 
display constructed of cloth, wood, canvas, light fabric, paper or 
other materials with or without frames intended to be displayed for a 
limited time period and not permanently affixed to the ground. 
 
(1) General Provisions For All Temporary Signs: The following shall 
apply to all Temporary Signs as outlined herein: 
 
(A) Signs shall be removed as specified herein, unless 
otherwise indicated in this section. There are no time 
frames for noncommercial opinion Signs. 
 
(B) Signs may only be located on private property and may 
not encroach into the Right-of-Way, nor impede 
pedestrian traffic. 
 
(C) Signs shall not be attached to utility poles, fences, 
trees, or other similar objects. 
 
(D) Illumination of Temporary Signs is prohibited. 
 
(E) All T emporary Signs must be subordinate to and be 
positioned in such a way so that any permanent signage 
on the same property remains visible. 
 
(F) Temporary Signs must be properly maintained at all 
times. Any faded, torn, ripped, detached, defaced or 
otherwise damaged sign must be promptly repaired, 
replaced, or removed. 
 
 
(2) Temporary Signs Allowed Without A Permit In All Zone 
Districts: 
 
(A) Noncommercial Opinion Signs: Noncommercial 
opinion Signs are subject to all requirements and 
provisions of the Utah Code Annotated and other laws 
as may be applicable. Such Signs are regulated as 
follows: 
 
(i) Residential Properties: Residential properties 
are permitted nine (9) square feet of a Sign Area, 
EXHIBIT A.10
102
not to exceed three feet (3') in height. The Sign 
square footage may be split between two (2) or 
more Signs, but the total square footage may not 
exceed nine (9) square feet. 
 
(ii) Nonresidential Properties: Nonresidential 
properties are permitted six (6) square feet of 
Sign Area, not to exceed three feet (3') in height. 
The Sign square footage may be split between 
two (2) or more Signs, but the total square 
footage may not exceed six (6) square feet. 
 
(B) Properties Subject To Development Or Construction: 
Properties which have an approved Subdivision Plat, 
Site Plan, or other type of Development Permit upon 
which construction or Development is occurring are 
subject to the following: 
 
(i) Signs may not exceed a maximum of twenty (20) 
square feet. 
 
(ii) Signs may only be freestanding and must be 
made of a rigid material. Banners or other similar 
Signs applied to cloth, paper, flexible plastic, or 
fabric of any kind are not permitted. 
 
(iii) Signs may not exceed six feet (6') in height, 
measured from the top of the Sign to the grade 
directly below. 
 
(iv) One Sign is allowed per street frontage. These 
Signs must be located on the parcel that is 
subject to the approved Development Permit 
and may not encroach into the Right-of-Way, nor 
impede pedestrian traffic. 
 
(v) Such Sign(s) shall be removed within one year 
after the issuance of the final building permit for 
the Development. 
 
(C) Properties Subject to Sale, Lease, Rent, Or Auction: 
Properties subject to sale, lease, rent, or auction shall 
be allowed one on premises Sign of one of the following 
types, and associated off premises Signs according to 
EXHIBIT A.11
103
the following: 
 
(i) On Premises Signs: 
 
(a) One T-shaped post Sign (see illustration 1 
of this section), one yard Sign (see 
illustration 2 of this section), or one 
Window Sign (see illustration 3 of this 
section) subject to the following: 
• In the case of a T-shaped post Sign, the Sign 
hanging from the T-shaped post shall be a 
maximum of nine (9) square feet. Yard signs 
and Window Signs may not exceed nine (9) 
square feet in size. 
• T-shaped post Signs and yard Signs may not 
exceed six feet (6') in height, measured from 
the top of the sign to the grade directly 
below. 
• These Signs must be located on the property 
that is subject to sale, lease, rent, or auction 
and out of the Right-of-Way. 
• These Signs are allowed for the duration of 
the property's sale, lease, rent, or auction. 
 
(ii) Off Premises Signs: 
 
(a) Such Signs may be used to direct traffic to a 
property for sale, lease, rent, or auction, 
subject to the following: 
 
* These Signs may be displayed thirty (30) 
minutes prior to a representative or 
property Owner being at the property that 
is subject to sale, lease, rent, or auction. 
      
  
* These signs may be displayed in the 
County Right-of-Way as long as they are 
not disruptive to the regular flow of traffic. 
 
* These signs may not be displayed 
overnight. 
EXHIBIT A.12
104
 
(3) Temporary Signs Requiring a Permit on Nonresidential 
Properties: A nonresidential Use may apply for one Temporary 
Sign, subject to the following: 
 
(A) These Signs may be displayed up to four (4) times per 
calendar year, for a period not to exceed ten (10) days in 
length. These periods may run consecutively. 
 
(B) S igns may not exceed a maximum size of twenty (20) 
square feet. 
 
(C) Freestanding Temporary Signs may not exceed six feet 
(6') in height, measured from the top of the Sign to the 
grade directly below. Signs attached to a Building may 
not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height, measured from 
the top of the Sign to the grade directly below. 
 
(D) One Temporary Sign is allowed for each nonresidential 
Use. 
 
(E) These Signs must be located on the parcel on which the 
entity requesting the Sign is located and may not 
encroach into the Right-of-Way, nor impede pedestrian 
traffic. 
F. Sign Illumination: 
 
1. Exposed neon tubing and/or individual light bulbs forming the Sign copy shall 
not be permitted on any Sign, unless otherwise allowed in this section. 
 
2. Backlit full Sign face illuminated Signs are prohibited. 
 
3. Light may be cast directly onto the face of the Sign by an external light 
source. In such instances, the light must be focused on the Sign face only, 
provided that such illumination does not adversely affect pedestrian and/or 
vehicular traffic. 
 
4. Backlighting through individual routed letters/copy or through the material 
that comprises the letters/copy in the Sign face is permitted as long as the 
light source is screened from public view. 
 
5. No interior light source shall be visible to the exterior, unless otherwise 
allowed in this section. 
 
EXHIBIT A.13
105
G. Prohibited Signs and Devices: The following Signs shall be prohibited in the 
Snyderville Basin: 
 
  
 
1. Flashing Signs: Any illuminated Sign on which the light is not maintained 
stationary or constant in intensity and color at all times when it is in use, 
unless otherwise allowed in this section. 
 
2. Roof Mounted Signs: A Sign that is mounted on the roof of a structure, or 
signs that project above the highest point of a roofline. 
 
3. Moving Signs: Any Sogm or part of a Sign that changes physical position by 
any movement or rotation or that gives the visual impression of such 
movement. 
 
4. Pennants, Banners, Ribbons, Etc.: Strings of pennants, banners, ribbons, 
streamers, balloons, spinners, or other similar moving or fluttering or inflated 
devices and searchlights. 
 
5. Signs Imitating Official Traffic Signs: Signs imitating official traffic signs in any 
manner which are visible from public areas. 
 
6. Portable Signs: Portable Signs not permanently affixed to the ground, except 
as otherwise provided in this section. 
 
7. Mobile Signs: Signs attached to stationary vehicles, equipment, trailers and 
related devices, when used in a manner to augment approved signage for a 
business as opposed to normal operation or parking of the vehicle or device. 
 
8. Obstructing Signs: Signs which, by reason of size, location, content, coloring 
or manner of illumination, obstruct the vision of motorists or obstruct or 
detract from the visibility or effectiveness of any traffic sign or control device 
on any road or street, as determined by the CDD or designated planning staff 
member or the county sheriff. 
 
9. Hazardous Signs: Any Sign or Sign structure which constitutes a hazard to 
public health or safety, as determined by the CDD or designated planning 
staff member or the county sheriff. 
 
10. Signs On Public Property: Signs on trees, utility poles, and on public 
property, other than public information Signs. 
 
11. Off Premises Directional Signs: Off premises directional Signs may be 
EXHIBIT A.14
106
approved as a Temporary Sign when an event or activity is situated in such a 
manner that its location is obstructed from public view, so long as that Sign 
is compatible with all other regulations herein. 
 
12. Condition of Sign: Any Sign for which the Sign message face has been 
removed or destroyed, leaving only the supporting frame or other 
components, and said condition exists for more than thirty (30) days is 
prohibited and shall be removed. 
 
H. Exempted Signs: These Signs are exempt from obtaining a low impact permit; 
however, they must still comply with the following guidelines: 
 
1. Informational Signs: Signs which are not more than six (6) square feet and no 
more than four feet (4') in height and which are used to direct vehicular and 
pedestrian traffic or to direct parking and traffic circulation on private 
property. Advertising is not permitted on these Signs. Informational Signs 
shall contain no advertising material or message. These Signs shall not be 
permitted in a Right-of-Way or required setback area. 
 
2. Public Signs: Legal notices, identification, informational or directional Signs 
erected or required by governmental bodies, or authorized by the county for 
public purposes which meet the requirements of these guidelines, except 
provisions prohibiting said Signs in the rights of way. 
 
3. Public Regulatory Signs: All public regulatory Signs located in the county 
which meet all the state requirements. 
 
4. Interior Signs: Signs located on the interior of any building, or within an 
enclosed lobby of any building or group of buildings and which cannot readily 
be seen from the exterior of the building, which Signs are designed and 
located to be viewed exclusively by the patron of such use or uses. 
 
5. Utility Signs: Signs of public utility or cable television companies which show 
the locations of underground facilities. 
 
6. Street Address And Identifications Signs: Signs whose content includes only 
the name or professional title of the occupant and address of the premises. 
Such Signs shall not exceed two (2) square feet. The Sign shall be limited to 
flush mounted or window type Signs and one per premises. These Signs shall 
not be permitted in a Right-of-Way. 
 
7. Customer Information Signs: Customer information signs located on or in 
close proximity to the building and outside of required setback areas may 
display such items as "credit cards accepted", prices and menus, and each 
EXHIBIT A.15
107
Sign shall not exceed two (2) square feet in area. 
 
8. Flags: Each development area that contains a single use may have no more 
than three (3) freestanding flagpoles at any time. Each development area 
that contains multiple uses may have no more than three (3) freestanding 
flagpoles at any time. Flagpoles are restricted to only flying one flag per pole. 
The maximum size of any one flag shall be twenty four (24) square feet. 
Flagpoles may not exceed twenty eight feet (28') in height, measured from 
the top of the pole to the grade directly below. Uplighting of all flags, except 
the flag of the United States of America, is prohibited. 
 
9. Window Signs: Window Signs shall not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of 
the area of a single window in which it is placed. A single window is any 
window, or section of windows, that is separated from another window by 
twelve inches (12") or more. Any door with windows is always considered a 
separate window. Window Signs may not be combined in order to gain a 
larger Sign for one particular window (see illustration 4 of this section). 
 
 
10. Neon Signs: Neon Signs, where the light source is on the external face of the 
Sign: One neon Sign is allowed for each nonresidential use to be located on 
the inside of any window. These Signs may not exceed four (4) square feet 
and may not flash or be animated in any manner. Neon Signs are considered 
Window Signs and may not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the area of 
the window in which they are placed. 
 
11. Project Identification Banners on Light Poles: These Signs are only allowed in 
multiple use developments and may be located on more than fifty percent 
(50%) of the total number of light poles within a development. Banners may 
not exceed eight (8) square feet in size. 
 
I. Nonconforming Signs: Within the zone districts established in this title, there may 
be existing Signs which were lawfully established before the adoption of this title, 
but which are now prohibited, regulated, or restricted. It is the intent of this section 
to allow these Signs to remain until such time as they are removed or otherwise 
brought into conformance with this title. 
 
1. Property Owner Responsibility: The property owner bears the burden of 
establishing that any Nonconforming Sign lawfully exists. 
 
2. Enlargement of Nonconforming Signs: A Nonconforming Sign may not be 
enlarged in any way unless it conforms to the provisions contained in this 
title. 
 
EXHIBIT A.16
108
3. Location: Signs conforming to the provisions of this section may be erected 
on a parcel that contains a Nonconforming Sign(s); however, the new Sign(s) 
must be a different type than the existing Nonconforming Sign(s) (i.e., if the 
Nonconforming Sign is a Freestanding Sign, a Conforming Freestanding Sign 
may not be erected). 
 
4. Alterations: A Nonconforming Sign may be altered to decrease its 
nonconformity. 
 
5. Maintenance And Repair of Nonconforming Signs: Nothing in this section 
shall be construed to relieve the owner of use of a Nonconforming Sign, or 
owner of the property on which such Nonconforming Sign is located, from 
maintaining the sign in a state of good repair; provided, however, that any 
repainting, cleaning and other normal maintenance or repair of the Sign or 
Sign Structure shall not modify the Sign Structure or copy in any way which 
makes it more nonconforming. Routine maintenance or changing like parts 
shall not be considered an alteration; provided, that such change does not 
alter the surface dimension, height, message, or otherwise make the sign 
nonconforming. 
 
6. Removal of Nonconforming Signs: If a nonconforming sign is demolished or 
removed at the will of the property owner, any subsequent sign shall 
thereafter be required to conform to the regulations specified in this title for 
the zone district in which it is located. 
 
7. Destroyed Signs: If a Nonconforming Sign is destroyed by fire or other natural 
cause, it may be replaced. If the sign is not repaired or replaced within one 
year from the date of loss, it shall not be reconstructed or replaced except in 
conformance with the provisions of this title. 
 
8. Sign Removal: If the cost of the Nonconforming Sign is valued at less than 
one hundred dollars ($100.00), the sign shall be removed. Sign value shall be 
determined based on an actual sales receipt for the Sign or a cost estimate 
for the replacement cost provided by a qualified professional. 
 
9. Billboard Removal: Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit the 
county from removing a billboard without providing just compensation in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in this subsection, if the county 
manager provides reasonable notice of the proceedings and, following a 
public hearing, finds: 
 
a. The applicant made a false or misleading statement in any 
application to the county necessary to establish or change the 
billboard; 
EXHIBIT A.17
109
 
b. The billboard is unsafe or presents a hazard to persons or property; 
 
c. The billboard is in a state of disrepair; or 
 
d. The billboard has been abandoned for at least twelve (12) months. 
 
J. Enforcement: 
 
1. The CDD or designated planning staff member shall be responsible for 
enforcing the provisions of the sign regulations established herein. 
 
2. Violation of the sign provisions established herein shall result in punishment 
in accordance with the provisions of this title and state law. 
 
3. If signs not conforming to the requirements of this title are located within a 
public Right-of-Way, county personnel may remove and impound those 
signs if notice to remove the signs has been sent to the property owner and 
they have failed to comply with that notice 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PROPOSED CHANGES IN CHAPTER 11 DEFINITIONS 
EXHIBIT A.18
110
 
RESORT: A facility or a development of multiple buildings intended primarily for transient 
guests where the primary attraction is generally recreational facilities or activities, 
including dude ranches, health facilities, alpine and Nordic skiing, and hunting/fishing 
clubs. 
 
SIGN: Any object, device, display, structure, flag, or part thereof, situated outdoors or 
indoors, which is used to advertise, identify, display, direct or attract attention to an 
object, person, institution, organization, business, product, service, event, or location. 
Signs shall only identify the business(es) located on the premises on which the sign is 
located. Any signs intended to advertise a business or activity of any type that is not 
located on the premises or property on which the activity is located are prohibited. Signs 
shall only state the legal name of the business, and shall not advertise the type of goods 
sold or services provided. Only the type of signs shall be permitted, only specifically 
authorized in a Comprehensive Sign Plan. Provided, however, permitted signs must also 
comply with all other applicable provisions of this title. 
 
A. Awning Signs: These are signs comprised of lettering and logos that are placed on 
the valance of the awning. Awning signs are not permitted to project into or over a 
road Right-of-Way. 
 
B. Drive-Through Menu Sign:  An outdoor display, often using Light Emitting 
Diodes (LEDs), that shows restaurant’s food, beverage, prices, and 
promotions to customers in their vehicles within designated drive -through 
lanes of the restaurant. 
 
C. Freestanding Signs: These signs are supported by poles, braces, or uprights 
extending from the ground or an object on the ground and are not attached to any 
part of a building. These signs must be located on the premises, the development 
parcel, or lot on which the specific use or uses being advertised is located. 
 
D. Fuel Station Price Signs: An outdoor display, often using Light Emitting Diodes 
(LEDs), that shows current fuel costs (e.g., regular, premium, diesel) to inform 
drivers of fuel availability and pricing, and can be updated remotely for real-time 
accuracy.  
 
E. Political Signs: A sign advertising a candidate for public office, proposition, or other 
issue to be voted on by the electorate. 
 
F. Portable Signs: Any sign not permanently affixed to the ground or a building.  
 
G. Projecting Signs: Are supported by a building or other structure and project out from 
the building or structure over sidewalks, lawns, or similar area in a manner that the 
EXHIBIT A.19
111
display area is generally perpendicular to the face of the building or structure. 
 
H. Resort Entry Information and Event Digital Signs: An outdoor display, often using 
Light Emitting Diodes (LEDs), used for Resort Entry Information and Event Digital 
Signs, guest information, and on-site event announcements within designated 
Resort Center areas. 
 
I. Temporary Signs: These signs are those made out of lightweight materials, with or 
without frames, and not affixed permanently to a building or the ground. 
 
J. Wall Mounted Signs: Wall mounted business signs are those signs that area 
attached to or painted on the wall of a building, the display surface of the sign being 
parallel to the wall of the building on which the sign is placed, and advertises a 
business on the premises. 
 
K. Window Signs: These are signs that are intended to be permanent and visible from 
the exterior of a building. They are painted on a window or depicted on or with any 
material placed, taped, or hung immediately on or behind the glazing. 
 
SIGN AREA: 
The area of a sign, which may be double-sided, so long as the sides are no more than 
twelve inches (12") apart, shall include all architectural embellishments or background 
materials that are an integral part of the display and intended to help attract attention to 
the sign. 
 
EXHIBIT A.20
112
10-8-2: SIGN REGULATIONS: 
 
A. Purpose: The purpose of this section is to promote and protect the public health, 
safety and welfare of the general public by implementing outdoor advertising 
regulations to protect property values, create an attractive economic and business 
climate and enhance the aesthetic appearance of the community, and ensure that 
the constitutionally guaranteed right of free expression is protected. It is further 
intended to reduce Signs or advertising distractions and obstructions that may 
contribute to clutter or traffic accidents. 
 
B. Permit Requirements: 
 
1. It is unlawful for any person to erect, construct, alter or relocate any Sign, 
other than such Signs specifically described in subsection H, "Exempted 
Signs", of this section, without first obtaining a permit. Routine maintenance 
or repairing existing like parts shall not be considered an alteration; provided 
that such change does not alter the surface dimensions, height, message, or 
otherwise make the Sign nonconforming. 
 
2. Application for the permit shall be made to the Director or designated 
planning staff member and shall include the following: 
 
a. The name, address and telephone number of the Applicant, Owner 
and occupant of the property. 
 
b. Location of the Structure or parcel of property on which the Sign will 
be attached or erected. 
 
c. Position of the Sign in relation to nearby Buildings, Structures, 
property lines, Rights of Way and roads. 
 
d. A copy of plans and specifications showing material and method of 
construction, illumination, electrical wiring, location and support. 
 
e. Sketch showing Sign faces, exposed surfaces and proposed 
message, accurately represented in scale as to size, area, 
proportions and color. 
 
f. The name of the person erecting the sign. 
 
g. Written consent of the Owner of the Building, Structure or land on 
which the Sign is to be erected. 
 
h. On any Application for a Temporary Sign, the Applicant shall list the 
EXHIBIT B.1
113
earliest date on which the Sign may be established and the date on 
which the Sign shall be removed. 
 
3. Before granting a permit under this subsection, every Applicant shall pay the 
required permit fee to the county for each Sign. 
 
4. The Director or designated planning staff member shall approve, approve 
with conditions, or deny the Sign permit within thirty (30) days from the date 
of the submittal of a complete Application. 
 
C. Sign Design: It is recognized that it is desirable to have some diversity of Sign design 
within the Snyderville Basin. However, it is also desirable to ensure that materials 
and color schemes used on Signs shall be compatible with the image of the 
Snyderville Basin community and mountain environment. 
 
D. Comprehensive Sign Plans: Uses that are subject to the provisions of a previously 
approved Comprehensive Sign Plan may choose to continue the use of that Sign 
plan, or if all parties to the Comprehensive Sign Plan agree in writing to no longer 
utilize the Comprehensive Sign Plan, they may comply with the provisions of this 
section. In no case may a combination of a Comprehensive Sign Plan and the 
provisions of this section be used together. 
 
E. Permitted Signs: 
 
1. Nonresidential Signs: The following types of Signs are allowed for 
permanent, nonresidential Uses. Signs permitted under this regulation are 
intended to identify the Use located on the premises upon which the Sign is 
located, unless otherwise stated in this section. 
 
2. Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following definitions will be 
used: 
 
MULTIPLE USES: Any lot, Building, or other Structure or tract of land that has been 
designated for multiple nonresidential Uses, through the approval of a 
Development Permit. 
 
SINGLE USE: Any Lot, Building, or other Structure or tract of land that has been 
designated for one nonresidential Use, through the approval of a Development 
Permit. 
 
3. Types Of Signs: 
 
a. Freestanding Sign: Freestanding Signs are supported by poles, 
braces, or uprights extending from the ground or an object on the 
EXHIBIT B.2
114
ground and are not attached to any part of a Building. All Freestanding 
Signs shall comply with the following: 
 
(1) Number Of Signs: One Freestanding Sign shall be permitted for 
each separate primary vehicular access to the parcel, up to a 
maximum of two (2) signs. The primary vehicular access is that 
access located adjacent to the primary parking area. 
 
(2) Location/Setbacks: Freestanding Signs shall be located 
adjacent to the primary vehicular access to the parcel. In no 
case shall a Freestanding Sign encroach into a road Right-of-
Way, nor shall any Sign be situated near an intersection in 
such a manner so as to interfere with vehicular sight distance. 
These Signs shall be set back at least fifteen feet (15') from the 
edge of the Right-of-Way. 
 
(3) Monument Base: All Freestanding Signs shall be constructed 
with a monument base. A base of stone or wood is preferable. 
 
(4) Display Area Size: The display area of all Freestanding Signs for 
a single Use shall not exceed thirty (30) square feet in size. The 
display area of all Freestanding Signs for a parcel containing 
multiple Uses shall not exceed forty five (45) square feet. The 
display area of a Sign, which may be double sided, shall 
include any architectural embellishments or background 
materials that are an integral part of the display and intended 
to help attract attention to the Sign. Digital displays are 
permitted provided they: 
 
(A) are static only (no flashing, scrolling, or video); 
 
(B) include automatic dimming controls that adjust 
brightness based on ambient light levels and shall not 
exceed 1,000 lumens for brightness and 2,800 Kelvin for 
temperature; and 
 
(C) are fully shielded and oriented away from residential 
Uses. 
 
(D) Malfunctioning signs shall be powered off until the Sign 
is repaired. 
 
(5) Height: In no case shall the highest point of a Freestanding 
Sign be more than six feet (6') above the grade elevation at the 
EXHIBIT B.3
115
base of the Sign. 
 
(6) Materials: Freestanding Signs shall be constructed of wood, 
stone or other natural materials. Plastic, lexan or similar 
materials are allowed for individual letters only. 
 
(7) Landscaped Area: All Freestanding Signs shall be located 
within a landscaped area. Landscaping, including shrubs, 
perennials, trees, other appropriate vegetative materials, and 
landscape boulders where appropriate, shall be designed in a 
manner that minimizes the visual impact of the Sign, without 
blocking the view of the Sign from the specific area from which 
it is intended to be seen, or adversely affecting pedestrian and 
vehicular sight distance. Designs that integrate the Sign into 
the land form should be considered. 
 
(8)  Additional Standards for Fuel Station Price Signs:  
 
(A) Fuel Station Price Signs are permitted only as an 
accessory element of a Freestanding Sign for an 
approved Gas and Fuel, Storage and Sales, or Gasoline 
Service Station with Convenience Store Use.  
 
(B) 
Fuel Station Price Signs shall be allowed for an 
additional twelve (12) square feet of display area . 
 
(9) Additional Standards for Resort Entry Information and Event 
Digital Signs:  
 
(A) Resort Entry Information and Event Digital Signs are only 
allowed at the primary entrance of a Resort within the Resort 
Center (RC) Zone District. A maximum of one (1) Resort Entry 
Information and Event Digital Sign is permitted per Resort 
entry, unless otherwise approved through a Comprehensive 
Sign Plan. 
 
(B) Resort Entry Information and Event Digital Signs shall 
be oriented away from residential Uses and fully 
shielded from the view of Adjacent dwellings. 
 
b. Primary Wall Sign, Secondary Wall Sign, Projecting Sign, Suspended 
Sign, And Awning Sign: Each nonresidential Use may choose to utilize 
EXHIBIT B.4
116
three (3) out of the five (5) types of Signs, as described below. In no 
case may two (2) or more of the same types of Signs be used per each 
Use. 
 
(1) Wall Mounted Signs: Wall Mounted Signs are those Signs that 
are attached to or painted on the wall of a Building, the display 
surface of the Sign being parallel to the wall of the Building on 
which the Sign is placed. 
 
(A) Primary Wall Sign: A Wall Mounted Sign that is located 
on the facade of the Building that contains the primary 
access to the particular Use. A primary Wall Mounted 
Sign shall not exceed one square foot of Sign Area for 
each two (2) linear feet of Building facade frontage, up 
to a maximum of sixty (60) square feet. 
 
In the case of multiple users in one Building, the 
frontage shall include the length of the individual suite 
that is exposed to the exterior of the Building where the 
primary access to the Use is located. In no case shall 
the primary wall sign be less than ten (10) square feet in 
size. 
 
In cases where a Use does not contain exterior 
exposure to a Building for the purposes of measuring 
Sign Area, that use may have a ten (10) square foot Sign. 
 
(i) Size Exception: In the case of a single Building 
where at least one facade is two hundred fifty 
(250) linear feet in length or more, the maximum 
size of the primary wall Sign may not exceed 
seventy-five (75) square feet. 
 
(ii) Location Exception: In the case of a single 
Building where at least one facade is two 
hundred fifty (250) linear feet in length or more, 
the primary wall Sign may be located as deemed 
appropriate by the entity requesting the Sign. 
 
(B) Secondary Wall Sign: A Sign that is located on a Building 
facade that is separate from the facade on which the 
primary wall Sign is located. A secondary wall Sign shall 
not exceed a maximum of one-half (1/2) the size of the 
permitted primary wall Sign. 
EXHIBIT B.5
117
 
(C) Display Area: The area of all wall mounted business 
Signs shall be the extreme limits of the display surface. 
The display surface includes any architectural 
embellishments or background materials that are an 
integral part of the display and used to differentiate the 
Sign from its surroundings. 
 
(D) Wall Mounted Signs: Wall Mounted Signs shall not 
project out more than six inches (6") from the wall on 
which they are mounted. 
 
(E) Materials: Wall Mounted Signs shall be wood, metal, 
other natural materials, or painted on the side of the 
Building. Plastic, lexan, or similar materials are allowed 
for individual letters only. 
 
(2) Projecting Signs: Projecting Signs are supported by a Building 
or other Structure and project out from the Building or 
Structure over the sidewalks, lawns, or similar areas in a 
manner that the display area is generally perpendicular to the 
face of the Building or Structure. 
 
(A) Size: Projecting Signs shall not exceed eight (8) square 
feet. 
 
(B) Display Area: The area of a Projecting Sign shall be the 
extreme limits of the display surface. The display 
surface also includes any architectural embellishments 
or background materials that are an integral part of the 
display and used to differentiate the Sign from its 
surroundings. 
 
(C) Height: Signs which project over a pedestrian walkway 
shall allow at least seven and one-half feet (7.5') of 
clearance between the bottom of the Sign and the 
ground. Hanging Signs may be illuminated; provided, 
that only indirect lighting is utilized, and that the light 
source does not interfere with pedestrian or vehicular 
traffic. 
 
(D) Materials: Projecting Signs shall be constructed of 
wood, metal or similar material. Plastic, lexan or similar 
materials are allowed for individual letters only. 
EXHIBIT B.6
118
 
(3) Suspended Sign: A Sign that is suspended parallel or 
perpendicular from a Building roof, facade, porch, or other 
structural element by brackets, hooks, or chains. 
 
(A) Size: Suspended Signs shall not exceed eight (8) square 
feet. 
 
(B) Display Area: The area of a suspended Sign shall be the 
extreme limits of the display surface. The display 
surface also includes any architectural embellishments 
or background materials that are an integral part of the 
display and used to differentiate the Sign from its 
surroundings. 
 
(C) Height: Suspended Signs shall allow at least seven and 
one-half feet (7.5') of clearance between the bottom of 
the Sign and the ground. Suspended Signs may be 
illuminated; provided, that only indirect lighting is 
utilized, and that the light source does not interfere with 
pedestrian or vehicular traffic. 
 
(D) Materials: Suspended Signs shall be constructed of 
wood, metal or similar material. Plastic, lexan or similar 
materials are allowed for individual letters only. 
 
(4) Awning Signs: Awning Signs are comprised of letters and logos 
that are placed on the valance of the awning. 
 
(A) The words and logos on any Awning Sign shall not 
exceed nine inches (9") in height. 
 
(B) Backlighted awnings are prohibited. 
 
c. Subdivisions, Multi-Family Dwellings, And Residential Condominium 
Complex Signs: These Signs are intended to state the name of a 
Subdivision, multi-family development, or residential condominium 
complex. 
 
(1) Freestanding Signs: One Freestanding Sign shall be permitted 
for each separate primary vehicular access to a Subdivision, 
Multi- Family Dwelling development, or residential 
condominium complex. All Freestanding Signs shall comply 
with the following: 
EXHIBIT B.7
119
 
(A) Monument Base: All Freestanding Signs shall be 
constructed with a monument base. A base of stone or 
wood is preferable. 
 
(B) Display Area Size: The display area of all Freestanding 
Signs shall not exceed thirty (30) square feet in size. The 
display area of a Sign, which may be double sided, shall 
include any architectural embellishments or 
background materials that are an integral part of the 
display and intended to help attract attention to the 
Sign (see illustration 1 of this section). 
 
(C) Height: In no case shall the highest point of a 
Freestanding Sign be more than six feet (6') above the 
grade elevation at the base of the Sign. 
 
(D) Materials: Freestanding Signs shall be constructed of 
wood, stone or other natural materials. Plastic, lexan or 
similar materials are allowed for individual letters only. 
 
(E) Landscaped Area: All Freestanding Signs shall be 
located within a landscaped area. Landscaping, 
including shrubs, perennials, trees, other appropriate 
vegetative material, and landscape boulders where 
appropriate, shall be designed in a manner that 
minimizes the visual impact of the Sign, without 
blocking the view of the Sign from the specific area from 
which it is intended to be seen, or adversely affecting 
pedestrian and vehicular sight distance. Designs that 
integrate the Sign into the land form should be 
considered. 
 
(F) Setbacks: In no case shall a Freestanding Sign 
encroach into a road Right-of-Way, nor shall any Sign be 
situated near an intersection in such a manner so as to 
interfere with vehicular sight distance. These Signs shall 
be set back at least fifteen feet (15') from the edge of 
the Right-of-Way. 
 
d. Drive-Through Menu Signs: Each drive-through lane may have 
one (1) pre-order Sign and one (1) primary menu Sign. The 
following shall apply to all Drive-Through Menu Signs as 
outlined herein: 
EXHIBIT B.8
120
 
(A) Drive-Through Menu Signs shall be located within the 
drive-through lane and oriented away from public roads 
to minimize off-site visibility and driver distraction.  
 
(B) Drive-Through Menu Signs shall not be placed within 
required landscape areas or obstruct required vehicle 
circulation areas. 
 
(C) Setbacks: Drive-Through Menu Signs must be located 
on premises and may not encroach into a road Right-of-
Way, nor shall any Sign be situated near an intersection 
in such a manner so as to interfere with vehicular sight 
distance. These signs shall be Setback at least fifteen 
feet (15') from the edge of the Right-of-Way.  
 
(D) The pre-order Sign shall not exceed ten (10) square feet 
in Sign Area or five (5) feet above the grade elevation at 
the base of the Sign. 
 
(E) The primary menu Sign shall not exceed twenty (20) 
square feet in Sign Area or six (6) feet above the grade 
elevation at the base of the Sign.  
 
(F) Internal illumination and electronic displays are 
permitted only if static and non-flashing. 
 
(G) All digital menu Signs shall include automatic dimming 
controls that adjust brightness based on ambient light 
levels and shall not exceed 1,000 lumens for the 
brightness and 2,800 Kelvin for the temperature. 
 
(H) Drive-Through Menu Signs shall be fully shielded to 
prevent glare or light-spill onto Adjacent properties and 
roads. 
 
(I) Drive-Through Menu Signs shall utilize motion lighting in 
order to reduce brightness when customers are not in 
queue.  
 
(J) Speaker boxes may be used for ordering purposes only 
and shall not be used for music or advertising.  
 
(L) Malfunctioning digital Signs shall be powered off until 
EXHIBIT B.9
121
the Sign is repaired. 
 
e. T emporary Signs: "Temporary Sign" means any Sign or advertising 
display constructed of cloth, wood, canvas, light fabric, paper or 
other materials with or without frames intended to be displayed for a 
limited time period and not permanently affixed to the ground. 
 
(1) General Provisions For All Temporary Signs: The following shall 
apply to all Temporary Signs as outlined herein: 
 
(A) Signs shall be removed as specified herein, unless 
otherwise indicated in this section. There are no time 
frames for noncommercial opinion Signs. 
 
(B) Signs may only be located on private property and may 
not encroach into the Right-of-Way, nor impede 
pedestrian traffic. 
 
(C) Signs shall not be attached to utility poles, fences, 
trees, or other similar objects. 
 
(D) Illumination of Temporary Signs is prohibited. 
 
(E) All T emporary Signs must be subordinate to and be 
positioned in such a way so that any permanent signage 
on the same property remains visible. 
 
(F) Temporary Signs must be properly maintained at all 
times. Any faded, torn, ripped, detached, defaced or 
otherwise damaged sign must be promptly repaired, 
replaced, or removed. 
 
 
(2) Temporary Signs Allowed Without A Permit In All Zone 
Districts: 
 
(A) Noncommercial Opinion Signs: Noncommercial 
opinion Signs are subject to all requirements and 
provisions of the Utah Code Annotated and other laws 
as may be applicable. Such Signs are regulated as 
follows: 
 
(i) Residential Properties: Residential properties 
are permitted nine (9) square feet of a Sign Area, 
EXHIBIT B.10
122
not to exceed three feet (3') in height. The Sign 
square footage may be split between two (2) or 
more Signs, but the total square footage may not 
exceed nine (9) square feet. 
 
(ii) Nonresidential Properties: Nonresidential 
properties are permitted six (6) square feet of 
Sign Area, not to exceed three feet (3') in height. 
The Sign square footage may be split between 
two (2) or more Signs, but the total square 
footage may not exceed six (6) square feet. 
 
(B) Properties Subject To Development Or Construction: 
Properties which have an approved Subdivision Plat, 
Site Plan, or other type of Development Permit upon 
which construction or Development is occurring are 
subject to the following: 
 
(i) Signs may not exceed a maximum of twenty (20) 
square feet. 
 
(ii) Signs may only be freestanding and must be 
made of a rigid material. Banners or other similar 
Signs applied to cloth, paper, flexible plastic, or 
fabric of any kind are not permitted. 
 
(iii) Signs may not exceed six feet (6') in height, 
measured from the top of the Sign to the grade 
directly below. 
 
(iv) One Sign is allowed per street frontage. These 
Signs must be located on the parcel that is 
subject to the approved Development Permit 
and may not encroach into the Right-of-Way, nor 
impede pedestrian traffic. 
 
(v) Such Sign(s) shall be removed within one year 
after the issuance of the final building permit for 
the Development. 
 
(C) Properties Subject to Sale, Lease, Rent, Or Auction: 
Properties subject to sale, lease, rent, or auction shall 
be allowed one on premises Sign of one of the following 
types, and associated off premises Signs according to 
EXHIBIT B.11
123
the following: 
 
(i) On Premises Signs: 
 
(a) One T-shaped post Sign (see illustration 1 
of this section), one yard Sign (see 
illustration 2 of this section), or one 
Window Sign (see illustration 3 of this 
section) subject to the following: 
• In the case of a T-shaped post Sign, the Sign 
hanging from the T-shaped post shall be a 
maximum of nine (9) square feet. Yard signs 
and Window Signs may not exceed nine (9) 
square feet in size. 
• T-shaped post Signs and yard Signs may not 
exceed six feet (6') in height, measured from 
the top of the sign to the grade directly 
below. 
• These Signs must be located on the property 
that is subject to sale, lease, rent, or auction 
and out of the Right-of-Way. 
• These Signs are allowed for the duration of 
the property's sale, lease, rent, or auction. 
 
(ii) Off Premises Signs: 
 
(a) Such Signs may be used to direct traffic to a 
property for sale, lease, rent, or auction, 
subject to the following: 
 
* These Signs may be displayed thirty (30) 
minutes prior to a representative or 
property Owner being at the property that 
is subject to sale, lease, rent, or auction. 
      
  
* These signs may be displayed in the 
County Right-of-Way as long as they are 
not disruptive to the regular flow of traffic. 
 
* These signs may not be displayed 
overnight. 
EXHIBIT B.12
124
 
(3) Temporary Signs Requiring a Permit on Nonresidential 
Properties: A nonresidential Use may apply for one Temporary 
Sign, subject to the following: 
 
(A) These Signs may be displayed up to four (4) times per 
calendar year, for a period not to exceed ten (10) days in 
length. These periods may run consecutively. 
 
(B) S igns may not exceed a maximum size of twenty (20) 
square feet. 
 
(C) Freestanding Temporary Signs may not exceed six feet 
(6') in height, measured from the top of the Sign to the 
grade directly below. Signs attached to a Building may 
not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height, measured from 
the top of the Sign to the grade directly below. 
 
(D) One Temporary Sign is allowed for each nonresidential 
Use. 
 
(E) These Signs must be located on the parcel on which the 
entity requesting the Sign is located and may not 
encroach into the Right-of-Way, nor impede pedestrian 
traffic. 
F. Sign Illumination: 
 
1. Exposed neon tubing and/or individual light bulbs forming the Sign copy shall 
not be permitted on any Sign, unless otherwise allowed in this section. 
 
2. Backlit full Sign face illuminated Signs are prohibited. 
 
3. Light may be cast directly onto the face of the Sign by an external light 
source. In such instances, the light must be focused on the Sign face only, 
provided that such illumination does not adversely affect pedestrian and/or 
vehicular traffic. 
 
4. Backlighting through individual routed letters/copy or through the material 
that comprises the letters/copy in the Sign face is permitted as long as the 
light source is screened from public view. 
 
5. No interior light source shall be visible to the exterior, unless otherwise 
allowed in this section. 
 
EXHIBIT B.13
125
G. Prohibited Signs and Devices: The following Signs shall be prohibited in the 
Snyderville Basin: 
 
  
 
1. Flashing Signs: Any illuminated Sign on which the light is not maintained 
stationary or constant in intensity and color at all times when it is in use, 
unless otherwise allowed in this section. 
 
2. Roof Mounted Signs: A Sign that is mounted on the roof of a structure, or 
signs that project above the highest point of a roofline. 
 
3. Moving Signs: Any Sogm or part of a Sign that changes physical position by 
any movement or rotation or that gives the visual impression of such 
movement. 
 
4. Pennants, Banners, Ribbons, Etc.: Strings of pennants, banners, ribbons, 
streamers, balloons, spinners, or other similar moving or fluttering or inflated 
devices and searchlights. 
 
5. Signs Imitating Official Traffic Signs: Signs imitating official traffic signs in any 
manner which are visible from public areas. 
 
6. Portable Signs: Portable Signs not permanently affixed to the ground, except 
as otherwise provided in this section. 
 
7. Mobile Signs: Signs attached to stationary vehicles, equipment, trailers and 
related devices, when used in a manner to augment approved signage for a 
business as opposed to normal operation or parking of the vehicle or device. 
 
8. Obstructing Signs: Signs which, by reason of size, location, content, coloring 
or manner of illumination, obstruct the vision of motorists or obstruct or 
detract from the visibility or effectiveness of any traffic sign or control device 
on any road or street, as determined by the CDD or designated planning staff 
member or the county sheriff. 
 
9. Hazardous Signs: Any Sign or Sign structure which constitutes a hazard to 
public health or safety, as determined by the CDD or designated planning 
staff member or the county sheriff. 
 
10. Signs On Public Property: Signs on trees, utility poles, and on public 
property, other than public information Signs. 
 
11. Off Premises Directional Signs: Off premises directional Signs may be 
EXHIBIT B.14
126
approved as a Temporary Sign when an event or activity is situated in such a 
manner that its location is obstructed from public view, so long as that Sign 
is compatible with all other regulations herein. 
 
12. Condition of Sign: Any Sign for which the Sign message face has been 
removed or destroyed, leaving only the supporting frame or other 
components, and said condition exists for more than thirty (30) days is 
prohibited and shall be removed. 
 
H. Exempted Signs: These Signs are exempt from obtaining a low impact permit; 
however, they must still comply with the following guidelines: 
 
1. Informational Signs: Signs which are not more than six (6) square feet and no 
more than four feet (4') in height and which are used to direct vehicular and 
pedestrian traffic or to direct parking and traffic circulation on private 
property. Advertising is not permitted on these Signs. Informational Signs 
shall contain no advertising material or message. These Signs shall not be 
permitted in a Right-of-Way or required setback area. 
 
2. Public Signs: Legal notices, identification, informational or directional Signs 
erected or required by governmental bodies, or authorized by the county for 
public purposes which meet the requirements of these guidelines, except 
provisions prohibiting said Signs in the rights of way. 
 
3. Public Regulatory Signs: All public regulatory Signs located in the county 
which meet all the state requirements. 
 
4. Interior Signs: Signs located on the interior of any building, or within an 
enclosed lobby of any building or group of buildings and which cannot readily 
be seen from the exterior of the building, which Signs are designed and 
located to be viewed exclusively by the patron of such use or uses. 
 
5. Utility Signs: Signs of public utility or cable television companies which show 
the locations of underground facilities. 
 
6. Street Address And Identifications Signs: Signs whose content includes only 
the name or professional title of the occupant and address of the premises. 
Such Signs shall not exceed two (2) square feet. The Sign shall be limited to 
flush mounted or window type Signs and one per premises. These Signs shall 
not be permitted in a Right-of-Way. 
 
7. Customer Information Signs: Customer information signs located on or in 
close proximity to the building and outside of required setback areas may 
display such items as "credit cards accepted", prices and menus, and each 
EXHIBIT B.15
127
Sign shall not exceed two (2) square feet in area. 
 
8. Flags: Each development area that contains a single use may have no more 
than three (3) freestanding flagpoles at any time. Each development area 
that contains multiple uses may have no more than three (3) freestanding 
flagpoles at any time. Flagpoles are restricted to only flying one flag per pole. 
The maximum size of any one flag shall be twenty four (24) square feet. 
Flagpoles may not exceed twenty eight feet (28') in height, measured from 
the top of the pole to the grade directly below. Uplighting of all flags, except 
the flag of the United States of America, is prohibited. 
 
9. Window Signs: Window Signs shall not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of 
the area of a single window in which it is placed. A single window is any 
window, or section of windows, that is separated from another window by 
twelve inches (12") or more. Any door with windows is always considered a 
separate window. Window Signs may not be combined in order to gain a 
larger Sign for one particular window (see illustration 4 of this section). 
 
 
10. Neon Signs: Neon Signs, where the light source is on the external face of the 
Sign: One neon Sign is allowed for each nonresidential use to be located on 
the inside of any window. These Signs may not exceed four (4) square feet 
and may not flash or be animated in any manner. Neon Signs are considered 
Window Signs and may not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the area of 
the window in which they are placed. 
 
11. Project Identification Banners on Light Poles: These Signs are only allowed in 
multiple use developments and may be located on more than fifty percent 
(50%) of the total number of light poles within a development. Banners may 
not exceed eight (8) square feet in size. 
 
I. Nonconforming Signs: Within the zone districts established in this title, there may 
be existing Signs which were lawfully established before the adoption of this title, 
but which are now prohibited, regulated, or restricted. It is the intent of this section 
to allow these Signs to remain until such time as they are removed or otherwise 
brought into conformance with this title. 
 
1. Property Owner Responsibility: The property owner bears the burden of 
establishing that any Nonconforming Sign lawfully exists. 
 
2. Enlargement of Nonconforming Signs: A Nonconforming Sign may not be 
enlarged in any way unless it conforms to the provisions contained in this 
title. 
 
EXHIBIT B.16
128
3. Location: Signs conforming to the provisions of this section may be erected 
on a parcel that contains a Nonconforming Sign(s); however, the new Sign(s) 
must be a different type than the existing Nonconforming Sign(s) (i.e., if the 
Nonconforming Sign is a Freestanding Sign, a Conforming Freestanding Sign 
may not be erected). 
 
4. Alterations: A Nonconforming Sign may be altered to decrease its 
nonconformity. 
 
5. Maintenance And Repair of Nonconforming Signs: Nothing in this section 
shall be construed to relieve the owner of use of a Nonconforming Sign, or 
owner of the property on which such Nonconforming Sign is located, from 
maintaining the sign in a state of good repair; provided, however, that any 
repainting, cleaning and other normal maintenance or repair of the Sign or 
Sign Structure shall not modify the Sign Structure or copy in any way which 
makes it more nonconforming. Routine maintenance or changing like parts 
shall not be considered an alteration; provided, that such change does not 
alter the surface dimension, height, message, or otherwise make the sign 
nonconforming. 
 
6. Removal of Nonconforming Signs: If a nonconforming sign is demolished or 
removed at the will of the property owner, any subsequent sign shall 
thereafter be required to conform to the regulations specified in this title for 
the zone district in which it is located. 
 
7. Destroyed Signs: If a Nonconforming Sign is destroyed by fire or other natural 
cause, it may be replaced. If the sign is not repaired or replaced within one 
year from the date of loss, it shall not be reconstructed or replaced except in 
conformance with the provisions of this title. 
 
8. Sign Removal: If the cost of the Nonconforming Sign is valued at less than 
one hundred dollars ($100.00), the sign shall be removed. Sign value shall be 
determined based on an actual sales receipt for the Sign or a cost estimate 
for the replacement cost provided by a qualified professional. 
 
9. Billboard Removal: Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit the 
county from removing a billboard without providing just compensation in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in this subsection, if the county 
manager provides reasonable notice of the proceedings and, following a 
public hearing, finds: 
 
a. The applicant made a false or misleading statement in any 
application to the county necessary to establish or change the 
billboard; 
EXHIBIT B.17
129
 
b. The billboard is unsafe or presents a hazard to persons or property; 
 
c. The billboard is in a state of disrepair; or 
 
d. The billboard has been abandoned for at least twelve (12) months. 
 
J. Enforcement: 
 
1. The CDD or designated planning staff member shall be responsible for 
enforcing the provisions of the sign regulations established herein. 
 
2. Violation of the sign provisions established herein shall result in punishment 
in accordance with the provisions of this title and state law. 
 
3. If signs not conforming to the requirements of this title are located within a 
public Right-of-Way, county personnel may remove and impound those 
signs if notice to remove the signs has been sent to the property owner and 
they have failed to comply with that notice 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PROPOSED CHANGES IN CHAPTER 11 DEFINITIONS 
 
RESORT: A facility or a development of multiple buildings intended primarily for transient 
guests where the primary attraction is generally recreational facilities or activities, 
including dude ranches, health facilities, alpine and Nordic skiing, and hunting/fishing 
clubs. 
 
SIGN: Any object, device, display, structure, flag, or part thereof, situated outdoors or 
EXHIBIT B.18
130
indoors, which is used to advertise, identify, display, direct or attract attention to an 
object, person, institution, organization, business, product, service, event, or location. 
Signs shall only identify the business(es) located on the premises on which the sign is 
located. Any signs intended to advertise a business or activity of any type that is not 
located on the premises or property on which the activity is located are prohibited. Signs 
shall only state the legal name of the business, and shall not advertise the type of goods 
sold or services provided. Only the type of signs shall be permitted, only specifically 
authorized in a Comprehensive Sign Plan. Provided, however, permitted signs must also 
comply with all other applicable provisions of this title. 
 
A. Awning Signs: These are signs comprised of lettering and logos that are placed on 
the valance of the awning. Awning signs are not permitted to project into or over a 
road Right-of-Way. 
 
B. Drive-Through Menu Sign:  An outdoor display, often using Light Emitting 
Diodes (LEDs), that shows restaurant’s food, beverage, prices, and 
promotions to customers in their vehicles within designated drive -through 
lanes of the restaurant. 
 
C. Freestanding Signs: These signs are supported by poles, braces, or uprights 
extending from the ground or an object on the ground and are not attached to any 
part of a building. These signs must be located on the premises, the development 
parcel, or lot on which the specific use or uses being advertised is located. 
 
D. Fuel Station Price Signs: An outdoor display, often using Light Emitting Diodes 
(LEDs), that shows current fuel costs (e.g., regular, premium, diesel) to inform 
drivers of fuel availability and pricing, and can be updated remotely for real-time 
accuracy.  
 
E. Political Signs: A sign advertising a candidate for public office, proposition, or other 
issue to be voted on by the electorate. 
 
F. Portable Signs: Any sign not permanently affixed to the ground or a building.  
 
G. Projecting Signs: Are supported by a building or other structure and project out from 
the building or structure over sidewalks, lawns, or similar area in a manner that the 
display area is generally perpendicular to the face of the building or structure. 
 
H. Resort Entry Information and Event Digital Signs: An outdoor display, often using 
Light Emitting Diodes (LEDs), used for Resort Entry Information and Event Digital 
Signs, guest information, and on-site event announcements within designated 
Resort Center areas. 
 
EXHIBIT B.19
131
I. Temporary Signs: These signs are those made out of lightweight materials, with or 
without frames, and not affixed permanently to a building or the ground. 
 
J. Wall Mounted Signs: Wall mounted business signs are those signs that area 
attached to or painted on the wall of a building, the display surface of the sign being 
parallel to the wall of the building on which the sign is placed, and advertises a 
business on the premises. 
 
K. Window Signs: These are signs that are intended to be permanent and visible from 
the exterior of a building. They are painted on a window or depicted on or with any 
material placed, taped, or hung immediately on or behind the glazing. 
 
SIGN AREA: 
The area of a sign, which may be double-sided, so long as the sides are no more than 
twelve inches (12") apart, shall include all architectural embellishments or background 
materials that are an integral part of the display and intended to help attract attention to 
the sign. 
 
EXHIBIT B.20
132
MINUTES
SUMMIT COUNTY
Snyderville Basin Planning Commission Meeting
SHELDON RICHINS BUILDING
1885 WEST UTE BOULEVARD, PARK CITY, UT, 84098
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2026
Meeting also conducted via Zoom.
DRAFT
Tyann Mooney
Makena Hawley
Matthew Nagie
Spencer Young
Tim Jeffrey
Heather Peteroy
Eric Sagerman
Lynda Viti
Ray Milliner
Amir Caus
Amy Price
Brian Craven
Craig Elliott
Adam Greenbaum
Justin Keys
Welcome/Attendance
Regular Session (6:01 P.M.)
1) Public comments for items not on the agenda or pending
applications. (6:01 P.M.)
Commission Chair Mooney opened the meeting for public comment at
6:01 p.m.
No one came forward to speak.
Commission Chair Mooney closed the meeting for public comment at
6:01 p.m.
2) Public Hearing and recommendation to the County Council
regarding amendments to Section 10-8-17, Accessory Buildings,
Chapter 10-2-10 Use Table; and Chapter 10-11, Definitions of the
133
Snyderville Basin Development Code. Legislative Process. Ray
Milliner, Principal Planner. (6:02 P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: February 24, 2026 Staff Report Basin.pdf
Ray Milliner, Principal Planner, presented amendments to accessory
buildings within the Snyderville Basin Development code for
recommendation to the County Council. (6:02 P.M.)
Commissioners asked brief clarifying questions to which Principal
Planner Milliner responded. (6:07 P.M.)
Commission Chair Mooney opened the meeting for public hearing at
6:23 p.m.
No one came forward to speak.
Commission Chair Mooney closed the meeting for public hearing at 6:24
p.m.
Additional questions and comments were heard following the closing of
the public hearing. (6:24 P.M.)
Matthew Nagie made a motion to forward a positive
recommendation the Summit County Council of the code
amendments subject to the findings of face and conclusions of law
in the staff report. Eric Sagerman seconded, and all voted in favor,
(7-0). 
3) Discussion and Action for a proposed Rezone and Master Planned
Development for the Junction Commons, a 19-building mixed use
redevelopment project at Junction Commons (formerly Outlets
Park City), located at 6699 N Landmark Dr, Kimball Junction,
Summit County, UT; Parcel FSE-1; Applicant: Elliott Workgroup
representing SRE Ontario LLC; Legislative Process. Project #24-
087. Amir Caus, AICP, Senior Planner. (6:28 P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Junction Commons Master Planned Development Staff
Report - February 24, 2026 Possible Action.pdf
Amir Caus, AICP, Senior Planner, reintroduced the Rezone and Master
Planned Development for the Junction Commons for discussion and
action. (6:28 P.M.)
Adam Greenbaum, SRE Ontario LLC, briefly addressed the
Commission. Mr. Greenbaum thanked the Commission for the
opportunity to present to them again and respectfully asked for the
Commission's support in advancing the project to the County Council.
(6:31 P.M.)
A robust discussion followed wherein the Commissioners asked detailed
questions regarding items such as amenities, recreational parks,
134
outdoor/open space, playground equipment, affordable housing, traffic
mitigation, building phases, building heights, walkability, and numerous
community benefits. Planner Caus, Mr. Greenbaum, Craig Elliott, Elliott
Workgroup, and Justin Keys, Hoggen Lee Hutchinson, responded to
their comments and concerns. (6:34 P.M.)
Commissioners provided conditions and hurdles to moving the project
forward. (7:50 P.M.)
Eric Sagerman made a motion to approve the proposed rezone and
master planned development according to the findings of fact,
conclusions of law and conditions of approval found in the staff
report with the following added conditions: there be traffic
mitigation plan for each phase and overall build out to include UOP
and DPRE considerations as allowable, three townhomes provided
as attainable but Council will determine final integration of
affordable housing, and the exterior of the affordable unit buildings
will look the same as the exterior of the market rate. Spencer
Young seconded, and the motion carried, (6-1).
Heather Peteroy voted AYE
Makena Hawley voted AYE
Eric Sagerman voted AYE
Spencer Young voted AYE
Matthew Nagie voted AYE
Tyann Mooney voted AYE
Tim Jeffrey voted NAY
4) Approval of Minutes: February 10, 2026. (8:25 P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Draft SBPC Minutes 02.10.26.pdf
Matthew Nagie made a motion to approve the minutes dated
February 10, 2026. Eric Sagerman seconded, and all voted in favor,
(7-0). 
Commission Items (8:26 P.M.)
Commissioners would like a regular council summary and additional
information to be communicated to them.
Director Items (8:33 P.M.)
Principal Planner Milliner provided a preview of agenda items for the upcoming
meeting.
Adjournment (8:34 P.M.)
Eric Sagerman made a motion to adjourn. Matthew Nagie seconded, and
all voted in favor, (7-0). 
135
Meeting minutes and recordings appear at summitcountyutah.gov/meetings. When in
the electronic version of the minutes, clicking on the hyperlinked times takes you to
that spot in the meeting recording.
136