1.
Public comments for items not on the agenda or pending applications.
2.
Public Hearing, Possible Recommendation for Amendments to the Eastern Summit
County Development Code, Sections 11-1-3, 11-4-2(A)(3), 11-4-5, 
Section 11-4-5(F)
(1)(a) and (G)(2), 11-6-5(A)(1)(a-e), (2)(g), (B)(1), (2)(d), 11-6-16(F)(1)(d)(1), 11-6-
19(C), 11-7-10(B), 11-7-14(B), 11-7-15, 11-7-16(B) and (E), Appendix A, and
APPENDIX C (D)
. The proposed amendments align state code references, fix
internal inconsistencies (numbering), capitalize defined terms, add definitions of
words to match the Snyderville Basin Development Code, and make other non-
substantive amendments. 
3.
Public hearing and possible action regarding the proposed Plat Amendment for
Forest Meadow Ranch Plat D Lot 124 Subdivision; 2200 S. Forest Meadow Road;
Parcel FM-D-124 and SS-144-Z. Administrative Review. Applicant: Dave Nichols.
Owner: Dave and DeAnna Nichols. Project #25-180.
Tiffanie N. Robinson, Senior Planner.
4.
Public hearing and possible action regarding the proposed Plat Amendment for
Hidden Lakes Subdivision Lots 55 and 56; 8318 Aspen Loop; Parcels HL-55 and HL-
56. Administrative Review. Applicant: Ryan & Aimee Oviatt. Owner: Oviatt Ryan
Wayne Trustee. Administrative Process. Project #25-171. 
Laura Kuhrmeyer, County Planner.
5.
Approval of Minutes: Amended Minutes November 06, 2025, and Minutes for
December 18, 2025.
AGENDA 
EASTERN SUMMIT COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION 
Thursday, January 15, 2026
NOTICE is hereby given that the Eastern Summit County Planning Commission will meet
electronically, via Zoom, and at the anchor location of Summit County Courthouse, Council
Chambers
60 North Main Street, Coalville, Utah 84017
(All times listed are general in nature, and are subject to change by the Board Chair)
 
You may attend in person or
 
Join Zoom webinar:
https://summitcountyut.zoom.us/j/99249026124
OR 
To listen by phone only: Dial 1-301-715-8592, 
or 1-253-215-8782, Webinar ID: 992 4902 6124
 
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
 
 
Staff Report East 1.15.26 PH Code Amendments.pdf
 
FM-D-124 Plat Amend ESCPC staff report #25-180
 
Project #25-171 Hidden Lake Ranch Lots 55 and 56 Plat Amendment Staff Report 1.15.26
 
AMENDED Draft ESCPC Minutes 11.06.25
Draft ESCPC Minutes 12.18.25
1
Commission Items
Director Items
Adjourn
To view staff reports available at the end of the Friday before the meeting please visit
www.summitcounty.org.
Individuals needing special accommodations pursuant to the Americans with Disabilities Act regarding this
meeting may contact Vicki Geary, Summit County Community Development Department at (435) 336-3123.
2
 Community Development Department 
P.O. Box 128 
60 North Main Street 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
summitcounty.org 
 
  
 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
To:   Eastern Summit County Planning Commission   
From:   Jennifer Strader, Principal Planner 
Date of Meeting: January 15, 2026 
Type of Item:  Development Code Amendments - Public Hearing, Possible Action 
Process:  Legislative Review 
 
 
Proposal 
Staff is proposing to amend certain sections of the Eastern Summit County Development Code 
(Code) to align state code references, fix internal inconsistencies (numbering), capitalize 
defined terms, add definitions of words to match the Snyderville Basin Development Code, and 
make other non-substantive amendments.   
 
Background 
In the 2025 legislative session, SB1006, the Revisor’s Omnibus Bill for County Governance 
recodified Utah Code Annotated Title 17 to improve structure, clarity, and organization, 
without making substantive changes. As a result, all references to the Utah State Code must be 
updated. Staff is also taking the opportunity to make other non-substantive amendments, as 
described below. 
 
Proposed Amendments 
1. Section 11-1-3: AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA 
 a. All references to the Utah State Code Annotated have been corrected. 
 b. All defined terms have been capitalized. 
 
2. Section 11-4-2(A)(3): LOT/PARCEL REQUIREMENT FOR DEVELOPMENT, SUBDIVISIONS 
AND/OR USES 
 a. All references to the Utah State Code Annotated have been corrected. 
 b. All defined terms have been capitalized. 
 
3. Section 11-4-5: SUBDIVISIONS, CONDOMINIUMS, SUBDIVISION PLAT AMENDMENTS, 
PARCEL BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENTS, AND DIVISIONS OF LAND FOR NON-DEVELOPMENT 
PURPOSES  
 a. All references to the Utah State Code Annotated have been corrected. 
 b. All defined terms have been capitalized. 
3
2 
 
c. Certain sections have been renumbered to maintain consistency within the 
Code. 
 
4. Section 11-4-5(F)(1)(a) and (G)(2). Parcel Boundary Adjustments 
 a. All references to the Utah State Code Annotated have been corrected. 
 b. All defined terms have been capitalized. 
 
5. Section 11-6-5(A)(1)(a-e), (2)(g), (B)(1), (2)(d): ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS, INTERNAL 
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS, AND LIVE/WORK DWELLING UNITS 
 a. All references to the Utah State Code Annotated have been corrected. 
 b. All defined terms have been capitalized. 
 
6. Section 11-6-16(F)(1)(d)(1): ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS 
 a. All references to the Utah State Code Annotated have been corrected.  
 b. All defined terms have been capitalized. 
 
7. Section 11-6-19(C): HAZARDOUS LIQUIDS OR MATERIALS TRANSMISSION PIPELINES 
 a. All references to the Utah State Code Annotated have been corrected. 
 
8. Section 11-7-10(B): PENALTY 
 a. All references to the Utah State Code Annotated have been corrected. 
 b. All defined terms have been capitalized. 
 
9. Section 11-7-14(B): VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES 
 a. All references to the Utah State Code Annotated have been corrected. 
 b. All defined terms have been capitalized. 
 
10. Section 11-7-15: REMEDIES 
 a. All references to the Utah State Code Annotated have been corrected. 
 b. All defined terms have been capitalized. 
 
11. Section 11-7-16(B) and (E): APPEAL PROCEDURES 
 a. All references to the Utah State Code Annotated have been corrected. 
 b. All defined terms have been capitalized. 
 
12. Appendix A: DEFINITIONS 
a. Added the following words to the definitions (taken from the Snyderville Basin 
Development Code): 
 ADVERSE IMPACT 
 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
 STANDARDS 
 
b. Amended the following words: 
 AFFECTED ENTITY 
4
3 
 
CERTIFICATE 
COUNTY ASSESSOR 
COUNTY ATTORNEY 
COUNTY RECORDER 
  COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR 
  DWELLING UNIT, ONE FAMILY 
  LAND USE AUTHORITY 
  PARCEL BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT 
  SUBDIVISION 
 
13. APPENDIX C (D) 
 a. All references to the Utah State Code Annotated have been corrected. 
 b. All defined terms have been capitalized. 
 
Analysis and Findings 
Section 11-5-3 of the Code states that whenever there is initiated an amendment to the Code, 
it must be reviewed by the Planning Commission who will deliver a recommendation to the 
County Council. The County Council, after holding a public hearing, shall approve, approve with 
modifications, or deny the amendment. There are no standards for review; however, the 
General Plan has specific goals related to future amendments. 
 
Goal 2.1(g) states: “Enact ordinances, resolutions, codes and other forms of land use controls to 
reduce nuisances and land use incompatibilities.”  
 
Goals 2.1(i) states: “Create appropriate and predictable development procedures in the 
Development Code to ensure that all land use and development is adequately reviewed and 
determined to be consistent with the goals of this Plan before any approvals are granted.” 
 
Recommendation 
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the proposed amendments, conduct a 
public hearing, and taking into account any public input, forward a positive recommendation to 
the County Council based on the following Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law. 
 
Findings of Fact: 
 
1. In the 2025 legislative session, SB1006, the Revisor’s Omnibus Bill for County Governance 
recodified Utah Code Annotated Title 17 to improve structure, clarity, and organization, 
without making substantive changes. As a result, all references to the Utah State Code 
must be updated. 
2. Staff is proposing to amend the Eastern Summit County Development Code to align 
state code references, fix internal inconsistencies (numbering), capitalize defined terms, 
add definitions of words to match the Snyderville Basin Development Code, and make 
other non-substantive amendments. 
5
4 
 
3. Section 11-5-3 of the Code states that whenever there is initiated an amendment to the 
Code, it must be reviewed by the Planning Commission who will deliver a 
recommendation to the County Council. The County Council, after holding a public 
hearing, shall approve, approve with modifications, or deny the amendment. 
4. Goal 2.1(g) of the General Plan states: “Enact ordinances, resolutions, codes and other 
forms of land use controls to reduce nuisances and land use incompatibilities.”  
5. Goals 2.1(i) of the General Plan states: “Create appropriate and predictable development 
procedures in the Development Code to ensure that all land use and development is 
adequately reviewed and determined to be consistent with the goals of this Plan before 
any approvals are granted.” 
6. The amendments do not affect any land uses. 
7. Staff finds no evidence that the public health, safety, and welfare will be impacted by 
the amendments.  
 
Conclusions of Law:  
 
1. The amendments are consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of the general 
plan. 
 
Attachments  
Exhibit A: Proposed Code Amendment with Changes Tracked 
Exhibit B: Proposed Code Amendment with Changes Accepted (clean version)   
 
 
 
6
Eastern Summit County Development Code 
11-1-3: AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA:
The general General plan Plan seeks to ensure that agricultural land uses Uses and 
operations in Eastern Summit County are protected, to the extent possible, from the 
adverse effects of developmentDevelopment. It is the intent of the agricultural protection 
program to: a) provide incentives to farmers and ranchers that encourage them to stay on 
the land; b) augment and carry out the state's agriculture protection area provision, 
established in Utah Code Annotated, section 17-41-10117-81-101, to maintain agricultural 
Agricultural activities Activities that are valuable to the state and the countyCounty; c) 
protect farmers and ranchers from nuisance complaints, undesirable rezoning, and 
unreasonably restrictive state and local actions; and d) educate and raise the awareness 
of developers Developers and new residents that Eastern Summit County values, which 
form the foundation of the general General planPlan, will be protected from any adverse 
effects of development Development and help ensure the right to farm in Eastern Summit 
County. 
11-4-2(A)(3): LOT/PARCEL REQUIREMENT FOR DEVELOPMENT, SUBDIVISIONS AND/OR
USES:
A. A Conforming Parcel: A conforming Conforming parcel Parcel is defined as one of
the following:
3. A parcel Parcel created under Utah Code Annotated section 17-27a-
605(4),17-79-708 as amended;
11-4-5: SUBDIVISIONS, CONDOMINIUMS, SUBDIVISION PLAT AMENDMENTS, PARCEL
BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENTS, AND DIVISIONS OF LAND FOR NON-DEVELOPMENT
PURPOSES:
A. Purpose: The purposes of this section are to:
1. Guide the future growth of the Eastern Summit County Planning District in a
manner consistent with the Eastern Summit County General
Plan.
2. Advance the public health, safety, and welfare of the property owners and
residents who reside within the Eastern Summit County Planning
District.
3. Provide Development opportunities for property owners Owners and
residents to live, work, and conduct business within the Eastern Summit
EXHIBIT A
7
County Planning District. 
 
4.  To direct Development to areas readily accessible to adequate 
accessAccess, wastewater, and other necessary public infrastructure and 
services. 
 
5.  Encourage Development that adequately mitigates any potential adverse 
Adverse effects Impacts on adjacent properties. 
 
6.  Encourage clustered Development to protect Wetlands, riparian areas, 
steep slopes, ridgelinesRidgelines, and other environmentally sensitive 
areas wherever practicable. 
 
7.  Provide reasonable and predictable standards Standards of review and 
preview processes and achieve responsible orderly Development. 
 
8.  Provide for the division of land for non-Development purposes. 
 
B.  Definitions: As used in this Chapter: 
 
1.  “Review Cycle” means the occurrence of: 
 
a.  the Applicant’s submittal of a complete Application for 
Subdivision to the Community Development Department; and 
 
b.  the Community Development Department’s review of that 
Application for Subdivision; and 
 
c.  the Community Development Department’s response to that 
Application for Subdivision, in accordance with this Chapter; 
and 
 
d.  the Applicant’s reply to the Community Development 
Department’s response that addresses each of the 
Community Development Department’s required 
modifications or requests for additional information. 
 
2.  "Subdivision Improvement Plans" means the civil engineering plans 
associated with required infrastructure improvements and county County 
controlled utilities required for a Subdivision. 
 
3.  "Subdivision Ordinance Review" means review by a county to verify that a 
subdivision Subdivision application Application meets the criteria of the 
county’s ordinances. 
8
 
4.  "Subdivision Plan Review" means a review of the Applicant's Subdivision 
Improvement Plans and other aspects of the Subdivision Application to verify 
that the Application complies with this title and applicable installation 
standards Standards and inspection specifications for infrastructure 
improvements. 
 
C.  Subdivisions: 
 
1.  Special Provision: When a single parcel includes multiple Zones, Density 
may be located upon the Parcel in the most appropriate manner 
irrespective of the boundaries of the Zones. 
 
2.  Plat application Application required when land is subdivided: Whenever any 
land is laid out and platted, the owner of the land shall provide to the County 
an accurate Plat that describes or specifies: 
 
a.  A subdivision Subdivision name that is distinct from any subdivision 
Subdivision name on a Plat recorded in the County Recorder’s office; 
and 
 
b. The boundaries course and dimensions of all the parcels Parcels of 
ground divided, by their boundaries, course and extent, whether the 
ownerOwner proposed that any parcel Parcel of ground is intended to 
be used as a street Street or for any other public use, and whether any 
such area is reserved or proposed for dedication for a public purpose; 
and 
 
c.  The lLot or unit reference, block or building Building reference, street 
Street or site address, street Street name or coordinate address, 
acreage or square footage for all parcelsParcels, unit or lotsLots, and 
length and width of the blocks and lots Lots intended for sale; and 
 
d.  Every existing rightRight-of-way Way and recorded easement 
Easement located within the Plat for: 
 
i.(1)  An an underground facility; and 
ii.(2)  A a water conveyance facility; or 
iii.(3)  Any any other utility facility. 
 
e.  Any water conveyance facility located, entirely or partially, within the 
Plat that: 
 
i.(1)  Is is not recorded; and 
9
ii.(2)  Of of which the owner Owner of the land has actual or 
constructive knowledge, including from information made 
available to the owner of the land, in the State Engineer’s 
inventory of canals or from a licensed surveyor. The Owner of 
the land shall file an Application for approval of the Plat. The 
Application form is available at the Community Development 
Department. A complete Application shall include all elements 
of the Subdivision listed in this section and shall provide all 
information required by the Subdivision Application. The CDD 
may waive or defer specific submittal requirements if it is 
determined that the submittal requirement(s) are not 
necessary to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of 
this chapter. 
 
3.  All Land Necessary for Density Required: All of the land required for the 
Density needed to create the Lots within the Subdivision, including a 
remnant Remnant Parcel, which on its own would not be large enough to 
qualify for any Density, shall be contained within the boundaries of the Final 
Subdivision Plat, and any remnant Parcel shall bear a Plat note stating that 
no Density exists on such remnant Remnant Parcel until such time (if ever) 
as the Zone is changed to permit additional Density rights and the remnant 
Remnant Parcel is, if necessary, re-subdivided in accordance with this  
chapter; or the remnant Remnant Parcel is other wise vacated from the Final 
Subdivision Plat for the purposes of a Parcel Boundary Adjustment, which 
shall constitute good cause for thereof under State law. 
 
4.  Remainder Parcel: In the event that the Parcel(s) being Subdivided contain 
more land than that which is needed to establish the Density for the 
Subdivision, such remainder Remainder Parcel(s) do not need to be included 
within the boundaries of the Final Subdivision Plat if each of such 
remainder Remainder Parcel(s) (or such number of them if contiguous) 
conform to the minimum size requirement of the applicable Zone at the time. 
In such cases, a certificate executed by the County shall be recorded with 
the County Recorder, at the same time as the Final Subdivision Plat is 
recorded, against the remainder Remainder parcelParcel(s) located outside 
of the Final Subdivision Plat stating that such remainder Remainder 
parcelParcel(s) are conformingConforming Parcels pursuant to this Chapter. 
 
5.  Separate Review: Preliminary Subdivision Plats and Final Subdivision Plats 
shall be processed as separate Applications. 
 
6.  Land Use Authority: The Land Use Authority for Preliminary preliminary 
Subdivision Plats shall be the Planning Commission and the County Manager 
for Final Subdivision Plats. 
10
 
7.  Subdivision Improvement Plan: A Subdivision Improvement Plan shall be 
submitted and reviewed as part of the Subdivision Plan Review during the 
Final Subdivision Plat process. 
D. 
8.  Preliminary Subdivision: 
 
a.  Pre-Application Meeting. 
 
i.(1)  A pre-application meeting is not required for Subdivision 
Applications subject to this Chapter, but is recommended. If a 
pre-application meeting is requested by an Applicant for a 
Subdivision Application subject to this Chapter, the 
Community Development Department shall, within 15 
business days after the request, schedule the meeting to 
review the concept plan and provide initial feedback. 
 
ii.(2)  The CDD shall provide at the pre-application meeting or have 
available on the County website the following: 
 
1.(A)  copies of applicable land use regulations; and 
2.(B)  a complete list of standards required for the project; 
and 
3.(C)  preliminary and final application checklists; and 
4.(D)  feedback on the concept plan. 
 
b.  Notification of Water Conveyance Facility: 
 
i.(1)  Within 20 days after the day on which an owner of land 
submits to the County a complete Subdivision Plat land use 
application, the County shall mail written notice of the 
proposed subdivision to the facility owner or any water 
conveyance facility located, entirely or partially, within 100 
feet of the Subdivision Plat. 
 
ii.(2)  The County shall not approve the Subdivision Plat for at least 
20 days after the day on which the County mails to each facility 
owner the notice to receive any comments from each facility 
owner regarding: 
 
1.(A)  Access to the water conveyance facility; and 
2.(B)  maintenance of the water conveyance facility; and 
3.(C)  protection of the water conveyance facility integrity; 
and 
11
4(D).  safety of the water conveyance facility; or 
5.(E)  any other issue related to water conveyance facility 
operations. 
 
c.  Subdivision Review: The CDD Director or designated planning staff 
member shall conduct a review that includes all affected Affected 
agencies Entities and Service Providers no later than 15 business 
days after the day on which an Applicant submits a complete 
Subdivision Application. Upon completion of the Subdivision Review, 
the CDD Director or designated planning staff member shall prepare 
a report and make findings and recommendations and shall schedule 
a public hearing before the Planning Commission as soon thereafter 
as may be practicable. 
 
d.  Subdivision Review Standards: The following Subdivision Review 
review standards Standards apply. Because of the limited time frame 
for preliminary review, compliance with standards Standards may be 
written in the form of conditions of approval to be met during the 
Subdivision Plan Review part of the Final Subdivision Plat. 
 
1.  The Subdivision is compliant with the Eastern Summit County 
General Plan. 
2.  The Subdivision is designed to fit into the topography of the 
site. Lots shall be sited to best fit into the natural terrain, to 
minimize excessive site grading and to mitigate impacts on the 
natural environment and resources of the surrounding area. 
The subdivision Subdivision layout shall demonstrate the 
preservation of watercourses, drainage areas, wooded areas, 
rough terrain and similar natural feature areas. 
3.  The Subdivision considers adjacent land usesUses. Site design 
shall mitigate any potential adverse impacts including but not 
limited to flooding, erosion, subsidence, sloping of the soil or 
other dangers or nuisances. 
4.  Where appropriate, subdivisions shall be designed to 
accommodate a variety of transportation modes. 
Vehicle/pedestrian/bicycle/equestrian circulation shall be 
demonstrated, and where possible 
pedestrian/bicycle/equestrian circulation should be separated 
from vehicular circulation. 
5.  Each proposed Lot shall have legal Access through a recorded 
Right-Of-Way or Easement. The Applicant shall demonstrate 
that adequate Access to the property from a Public Road may 
be granted by the State or County, whichever is applicable. 
6.  Compliance with the Development Evaluation Standards 
12
provided in chapter 2 of this title. 
7.  Compliance with the infrastructure standards in chapter 6 of 
this title. 
8.  The minimum Lot size for new Lots created through this 
process will meet the minimum Lot size requirements for the 
applicable Zone. 
 
e.  Public Hearing: The Planning Commission may hold no more than one 
public hearing for a preliminary Subdivision Plat. 
 
f.  Preliminary Subdivision Approval: If a preliminary Subdivision Plat 
complies with this title and all other applicable standards Standards 
and specifications, the Planning Commission shall approve the 
preliminary Subdivision Plat. The Applicant shall be notified of the 
approval in the form of a letter specifically identifying each condition 
of approval along with the approved preliminary Subdivision and any 
other accompanying documents determined to be relevant by the 
CDD Director or designated planning staff member. After preliminary 
Subdivision Plat approval, the Applicant may submit a Final 
Subdivision Plat Application. 
 
9.  Final Subdivision: 
 
a.  Upon approval of the preliminary subdivisionSubdivision Plat, the 
Applicant shall submit a final Final subdivision Subdivision Plat 
application Application with all required material for the 
Subdivision Plan Review, including Subdivision Improvement Plans, 
and any amendments required by the Planning Commission during 
preliminary review. 
 
b.  No later than 20 business days after the day on which an Applicant 
submits all the required materials for the final Final 
subdivisionSubdivision Plat, the CDD Director or designated planning 
staff member shall complete a Subdivision Plan Review subject to 
this Chapter. 
 
c.  Review Cycles: After conducting the Subdivision Plan Review, the 
CDD Director may require that the Applicant provide: 
 
i.(1)  additional information relating to an Applicant's plans to 
ensure compliance with County ordinances and approved 
standards Standards and specifications for construction of 
Public Improvements; and 
ii.(2)  modification to plans that do not meet current ordinances, 
13
applicable standardsStandards, or specifications, or do not 
contain complete information. 
 
d.  The CDD ’sDirector or designated planning staff member’s request for 
additional information or modifications to plans under (c)(i1), and (ii2) 
above shall be specific and refer to conditions of approval included in 
the preliminary approval, regulations, standardsStandards, or 
specifications that require the modifications to plans, and shall be 
logged in an index of requested modifications or additions. 
 
e.  Unless the change or correction is necessitated by the Applicant's 
adjustment to a plan set or an update to a phasing plan that adjusts 
the infrastructure needed for the specific Development, a change or 
correction not addressed or referenced in the County’s Subdivision 
Plan Review is waived, except if the modifications or corrections are 
necessary to protect public health and safety or to enforce state or 
federal law. 
 
f.  If an Applicant does not submit a revised plan within 20 business days 
after the CDD Director or designated planning staff member requires 
a modification or correction, the County shall have an additional 20 
business days to respond to the plans. 
 
g.  After the Applicant has responded to the final Review Cycle, and the 
Applicant has complied with each modification requested in the 
County’s previous review Review cycleCycle, the County may not 
require additional revisions if the Applicant has not materially 
changed the plan, other than changes that were in response to 
requested modifications or corrections. 
 
h. Utah Code Annotated Ssection 17-27a-604.2(5)(c)17-79-706(8)(c) 
limits Review Cycles to no more than four. 
 
i.  The Review Cycle restrictions and requirements of this Chapter do 
not apply to review of Subdivision Applications affecting property 
within identified Geological Hazard Areas. 
 
j.  Applicant’s Reply to Community Development Department’s  
Response: 
 
k.(1)  In addition to revised plans submitted during final Subdivision 
Plat Reviews, an Applicant shall provide a written explanation 
in response to the CDD ’sDirector or designated planning staff 
member’s review comments with each Review Cycle, 
14
identifying and explaining the Applicant's revisions and 
reasons for declining to make revisions, if any. 
 
l.(2)  The Applicant's written explanation shall be comprehensive 
and specific, including citations to applicable standards 
Standards and ordinances for the design and an index of 
requested revisions or additions for each required correction. 
 
m.(3)  If an Applicant fails to address a review comment in the 
response, the Review Cycle is not complete and the 
subsequent Review Cycle may not begin until all comments 
are addressed. 
 
n.  Appeal: If, on the fourth or final Review Cycle, the Community 
Development Department fails to take final action on the Subdivision 
within 20 business days, the County shall, upon the request of the 
property owner, and within 10 business days after the day on which 
the request is received: 
 
i.(1)  For a dispute arising from the Subdivision Improvement Plans, 
assemble an appeal panel in accordance with Subsection 17-
27a-507(5)(d)17-79-812(5)(d) of Utah State Code Annotated to 
review and approve or deny the final revised set of plans; or 
 
ii.(2)  For a dispute arising from the subdivision Subdivision 
ordinance review, advise the applicant Applicant in writing of 
the deficiency in the application Application and of the right to 
appeal the determination to the Summit County Council. 
 
o.  The County Manager shall approve a Final Subdivision Plat if the Final 
Subdivision Plat complies with the Planning Commission’s 
preliminary Subdivision approval, applicable Eastern Summit County 
Development Code regulations, and all other applicable standards 
Standards and specifications. 
 
10.  Plat Preparation: 
 
In addition to all requirements in Section C.2 of this chapter, prior to 
recordation, the final Plat shall contain the following: 
 
a.  Notarized signatures of each owner of record of land described in the 
Plat in the owner’s Owner’s designation part of the Plat. 
b.  Notarized signatures on the Plat by every person having a security 
interest in the property which sets forth that he/she is subordinating 
15
his/her liens to all covenants, servitude and easements imposed on 
the property, and all conditions of Development approval proposed 
by the County. 
 
c.  Signatures of the County Recorder, Land Use Authority, County 
Engineer, Health Department, the Public Safety Answering Point, 
applicable Fire District and County Attorney. 
 
d.  Certification by a surveyor licensed in the State of Utah. 
 
e.  Notes stating the following: 
 
i.(1) "Further subdivision of such lands, whether by deed, bequest, 
divorce, decree, or other recorded instrument, shall not result 
in a buildable lot until the same has been approved in 
accordance with the Eastern Summit County Development 
Code." 
 
ii.(2)  "The owners of property within Eastern Summit County 
recognize the importance of agricultural lands and operations 
and small rural business enterprises. It is recognized that 
agricultural lands and operations and rural business 
enterprises have unique operating characteristics that must be 
respected. Owners of each lot platted in this subdivision/the 
owner of the residence constructed upon this lot have/has 
been given notice and recognize(s) that there are active 
agriculture lands and operations and rural business 
enterprises within Eastern Summit County and 
acknowledge(s) and accept(s) that, so long as such lands and 
operations exist, there may be dust, noise, odor, prolonged 
work hours, use of roadways for the purposes of 
herding/moving livestock, and other attributes associated with 
normal agricultural operations and rural businesses." 
 
iii.(3)  For Subdivisions of 3 lots or less: “Water has not been 
approved for this Subdivision. It shall be the responsibility of 
each lot owner to demonstrate that water of adequate quality 
and quantity is available for each lot prior to the issuance of a 
building permit. This shall be accomplished with a 
memorandum of decision from the Utah Water State Engineer 
for a private well or a written commitment from a municipality 
or private company.” 
 
11.  Plat Recordation 
16
 
1a.  After the Plat has been acknowledged, certified and approved, the 
owner Owner of the land seeking to record the Plat shall record the 
Plat in the County Recorder’s office per the requirements in Section 
11-6-13 of this Titletitle. 
 
2b.  The County may withhold an otherwise valid Plat approval until the 
owner Owner of the land provides the Community Development 
Department with a tax clearance indicating that all taxes, interest, 
and penalties owing the land have been paid. 
 
3c.  Within 30 days after approving a Final Plat, the County shall submit to 
the Utah Geospatial Resource Center: 
 
ii.(1)  An electronic copy of the approved Final Plat; or 
 
iii.(2) Preliminary geospatial data that depicts any new streets and 
situs addresses proposed for construction within the bound of 
the approved Plat. 
 
11-4-5(F)(1)(a) and (G)(2). Parcel Boundary Adjustments: 
 
1. A property ownerOwner: 
 
a. May execute a parcel Parcel boundary Boundary adjustment 
Adjustment by quitclaim deed or by boundary line agreement as 
described in Utah Code Annotated section 17-27a-52217-79-806, 17-
27a-52317-79-807, or 57-1-45. 
 
G. Divisions Of Land For Non-Development Purposes: 
 
2. A division of a parcel Parcel without conformance to the final Final 
subdivision Subdivision plat Plat requirements of this chapter or the 
certificate required by Utah Code Annotated section 17-27a-605(1)17-79-
708, as amended, does not create a conforming Conforming parcel Parcel 
for purposes of this chapter. However, in conformance with Utah Code 
Annotated section 17-27a-605(3)17-79-708, as amended, such divisions of 
land can be recorded for purposes of conveying property ownership.  
 
11-6-5(A)(1)(a-e), (2)(g), (B)(1), (2)(d): ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS, INTERNAL 
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS, AND LIVE/WORK DWELLING UNITS: 
 
A.  Accessory Dwelling Units: Accessory Dwelling Units are incidental to and on the 
same Lot as a OneSingle-Family Detached Dwelling Unit. 
17
 
1.  Location: Accessory Dwelling Units may be established: 
 
a.  within the footprint of a OneSingle-Family Detached Dwelling Unit; 
b.  attached to a OneSingle-Family Detached Dwelling Unit; 
c.  within or attached to a larger Accessory Structure (such as a barn or 
garage); 
d.  on the same Lot as a OneSingle-Family Detached Dwelling Unit; or 
e.  built as a standalone structure on the same Lot as a OneSingle-
Family Detached Dwelling Unit. 
 
2.  General Standards: All Accessory Dwelling Units shall conform to the 
following standards: 
 
g.  Certificate of Occupancy: A certificate of occupancy for an Accessory 
Dwelling Unit shall only be granted concurrent with or after the 
issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the Single-Family Detached 
Dwelling Unit or the associated commercial Use. If an existing 
residence is proposed to be converted to an ADU Accessory Dwelling 
Unit in conjunction with a proposed primary Single-Family Detached 
Dwelling Unit, the Building Permit for the new primary Single-Family 
Detached Dwelling Unit shall not be issued until Staff has determined 
that the structure to be converted to an ADU Accessory Dwelling Unit 
complies with all applicable requirements. 
 
B.  Internal Accessory Dwelling Units: As an alternative to the standards in Section 11-
6-5(A), the following standards apply. Internal Accessory Dwelling Units are an 
incidental residential use within the Building Footprint footprint of a Single-Family 
Detached Dwelling Unit. 
 
1.  Applicability: Internal Accessory Dwelling Units must comply with the 
standards found in Utah State Code Annotated Ssection 17-27a-52617-80-
303 as amended. If an Accessory Dwelling Unit is within or attached to a 
Single-Family Detached Dwelling Unit but does not comply with all 
standards 
in Utah State Code Annotated Ssection 17-27a-52617-80-303 as amended, 
the standards outlined in Section 11-6-5(A) of this Title shall apply. 
 
2.  Standards: Internal Accessory Dwelling units must comply with the following 
standards: 
 
d.  Parking: In addition to the required parking for a Single-Family 
Detached Dwelling DetachedUnit, at least one (1) off-street parking 
space must be provided for the Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit. 
18
 
11-6-16(F)(1)(d)(1): ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS: 
 
F. Site Plan Requirements: Three (3) copies of a site plan, a minimum size of eleven 
inches by seventeen inches (11"x17") (must be legible) and a maximum size of thirty 
six inches by forty eight inches (36"x48") shall be submitted with all building 
Building permit Permit applications Applications for all new construction, including 
additions, accessory Accessory buildingsBuildings, and garages. 
 
(1) Agricultural exempt Exempt buildings Buildings that comply with section 17-
27a-60517-79-708 of the Utah Code Annotated are excluded from these site 
plan requirements. However, agricultural Agricultural exempt Exempt 
buildings Buildings closer than three feet (3') to the required setback Setback 
line or are greater than twenty eight feet (28') in height Height will require an 
inspection by the community development department to ensure that 
setback Setback and height Height requirements for the zone Zone district in 
which they are located are being met. 
 
11-6-19(C): HAZARDOUS LIQUIDS OR MATERIALS TRANSMISSION PIPELINES: 
 
C: Definitions: 
  
JURISDICTIONAL WETLANDS: An area delineated and approved as a wetland by the United 
States army corps of engineers consistent with Utah Code Annotated section 17-27a-
52017-79-608. 
 
11-7-10(B): PENALTY: 
 
B. The county County attorney Attorney reserves the right to enforce this title using any 
of the remedies provided for in Utah Code Annotated section 17-27-100217-79-901. 
 
11-7-14(B): VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES: 
 
B. The county County attorney Attorney reserves the right to enforce this title using any 
of the remedies provided for in Utah Code Annotated section 17-27a-80217-79-901. 
 
11-7-15: REMEDIES: 
 
No person may challenge in district court a land use Use decision under this title until they 
have exhausted all of their administrative remedies provided herein. Any person adversely 
affected by any final administrative decision made pursuant to this title must file a petition 
for review of that final decision with the district court within thirty (30) days and comply 
with all other requirements of Utah Code Annotated section 17-27a-80117-79-1009. 
Failure to comply with this section of the state law divests the district court of subject 
19
matter jurisdiction to review decisions of the county.  
 
11-7-16(B) and (E): APPEAL PROCEDURES: 
 
B. Timing: Unless otherwise specified in this section or under the County Land Use 
Management Act contained within Title 17, Chapter 27a 79 of the Utah Code 
Annotated, all appeal periods are based upon calendar days and appeals must be 
received on or before the close of business (5:00 p.m.) on the last day of the appeal 
period. Failure to file a completed appeal form (applicationApplication) within the 
time period specific shall act as a jurisdictional bar and render the appeal moot. 
Electronic submissions of completed applications Applications (.pdf, .jpg, .tif, etc.) 
will be accepted by the county via email if time stamped as being received prior to 
5:00 p.m. on the last day of the appeal period. 
 
E.  Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 17-79-1009,. §17-27a-801 et. seq. an 
appeal of a county County council Council or Board of AdjustmentaAdministrative 
lLaw jJudge action goes to district court. 
 
Appendix A: Definitions 
 
ADVERSE IMPACT: Any potential or actual effect (impact) that is or may be harmful or 
injurious to human health, welfare, safety, or property, to biological productivity, diversity, 
or stability or which unreasonably interferes with the reasonable use of property. The term 
includes secondary and cumulative as well as direct effects or impacts. 
 
AFFECTED ENTITY: A county, municipality, local district, special service district, school 
district, interlocal cooperation entity, property owners association, public utility, or the 
Utah Department of Transportation, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 17-27a-
103(1)17-79-102(3) or successor law. 
 
CERTIFICATE: A document which conforms to the requirements of Utah Code Annotated 
section 17-27a-605(1)17-79-708(1) or successor law. 
 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT: The Summit County department of 
community development. 
 
COUNTY ASSESSOR: In accordance with Utah Code Annotated title 17, chapter 1767, the 
duly elected Assessor of Summit County or his/her designee. 
 
COUNTY ATTORNEY: In accordance with Utah Code Annotated title 17, chapter 18a68, the 
duly elected Attorney of Summit County or his/her designee. 
 
COUNTY RECORDER: In accordance with Utah Code Annotated title 17, chapter 2171, the 
duly elected Recorder of Summit County or his/her designee. 
20
 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR: The Director of the Community Development 
Department, or authorized designee, with overall administrative control of the planning, 
building and zoning functions of the County, under the direction of the County Manager. 
 
DWELLING UNIT, ONE-FAMILYSINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED: A detached principal building, 
other than a mobile home, designed for and used as a dwelling unit exclusively by one (1) 
family and its guests. May be referred to as a single-family dwelling unit. 
 
LAND USE AUTHORITY: The Community Development Director, Planning Commission, 
Board of AdjustmentAdministrative Law Judge, County Manager or County Council, as the 
case may be, who is empowered under this title to make land use decisions on behalf of 
Summit County. 
 
PARCEL BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT: An adjustment to property boundaries as set forth in 
Utah Code Annotated section 17-27a-52217-79-806, 17-27a-52317-79-807, or 57-1-45. 
 
STANDARDS: Specific measurements of the quantity or quality of various elements of 
development. 
 
SUBDIVISION: Any land that is divided, re-subdivided, or proposed to be divided into two 
(2) or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots, or other division of land for the purpose, 
whether immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease, or development either on the 
installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms and conditions. Subdivision 
includes the division or development of land whether by deed, metes and bounds 
description, devise and testacy, map, plat, or other recorded instrument. Subdivision 
includes divisions of land for residential and nonresidential uses, including land used or to 
be used for commercial, agricultural, and industrial purposes. Subdivision does not 
include a bone fide division or partition of agricultural land for agricultural purposes or 
activity, nor does it include any of the specific circumstances designated in Utah Code 
Annotated section 17-27a-103(62)(c) and (d)17-79-708, as amended. 
__________________________________________________________________________ 
 
APPENDIX C (D) 
ADULT/SEX ORIENTED FACILITIES AND BUSINESSES 
 
D.  Right Of Appeal: All appeals from denials by the Planning Commission of 
conditional Conditional use Use permit Permit applications shall be as provided in 
title 10 of this Code, the Eastern Summit County Development Code (this title) (as 
applicable), and Utah Code Annotated, section 17-27a-70117-79-1009, to the 
District Court within thirty (30) days of the Planning Commission's final action. 
21
Eastern Summit County Development Code 
11
-1-3: AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA:
T
he General Plan seeks to ensure that agricultural land Uses and operations in Eastern 
Summit County are protected, to the extent possible, from the adverse effects of 
Development. It is the intent of the agricultural protection program to: a) provide incentives 
to farmers and ranchers that encourage them to stay on the land; b) augment and carry out 
the state's agriculture protection area provision, established in Utah Code Annotated, 
section 17-81-101, to maintain Agricultural Activities that are valuable to the state and the 
County; c) protect farmers and ranchers from nuisance complaints, undesirable rezoning, 
and unreasonably restrictive state and local actions; and d) educate and raise the 
awareness of Developers and new residents that Eastern Summit County values, which 
form the foundation of the General Plan, will be protected from any adverse effects of 
Development and help ensure the right to farm in Eastern Summit County. 
11
-4-2(A)(3): LOT/PARCEL REQUIREMENT FOR DEVELOPMENT, SUBDIVISIONS AND/OR
USES:
A. A
 Conforming Parcel: A Conforming Parcel is defined as one of the following:
3. A P
arcel created under Utah Code Annotated section 17-79-708 as
amended;
11
-4-5: SUBDIVISIONS, CONDOMINIUMS, SUBDIVISION PLAT AMENDMENTS, PARCEL
BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENTS, AND DIVISIONS OF LAND FOR NON-DEVELOPMENT
PURPOSES:
A
. Purpose: The purposes of this section are to:
1. G
uide the future growth of the Eastern Summit County Planning District in a
manner consistent with the General
Plan.
2. A
dvance the public health, safety, and welfare of the property owners and
residents who reside within the Eastern Summit County Planning
District.
3. Pr
ovide Development opportunities for property Owners and residents to
live, work, and conduct business within the Eastern Summit County Planning
District.
4. T
o direct Development to areas readily accessible to adequate Access,
EXHIBIT B
22
wastewater, and other necessary public infrastructure and services. 
 
5.  Encourage Development that adequately mitigates any potential Adverse 
Impacts on adjacent properties. 
 
6.  Encourage clustered Development to protect Wetlands, riparian areas, 
steep slopes, Ridgelines, and other environmentally sensitive areas 
wherever practicable. 
 
7.  Provide reasonable and predictable Standards of review and preview 
processes and achieve responsible orderly Development. 
 
8.  Provide for the division of land for non-Development purposes. 
 
B.  Definitions: As used in this Chapter: 
 
1.  “Review Cycle” means the occurrence of: 
 
a.  the Applicant’s submittal of a complete Application for 
Subdivision to the Community Development Department; and 
 
b.  the Community Development Department’s review of that 
Application for Subdivision; and 
 
c.  the Community Development Department’s response to that 
Application for Subdivision, in accordance with this Chapter; 
and 
 
d.  the Applicant’s reply to the Community Development 
Department’s response that addresses each of the 
Community Development Department’s required 
modifications or requests for additional information. 
 
2.  "Subdivision Improvement Plans" means the civil engineering plans 
associated with required infrastructure improvements and County 
controlled utilities required for a Subdivision. 
 
3.  "Subdivision Ordinance Review" means review by a county to verify that a 
Subdivision Application meets the criteria of the county’s ordinances. 
 
4.  "Subdivision Plan Review" means a review of the Applicant's Subdivision 
Improvement Plans and other aspects of the Subdivision Application to verify 
that the Application complies with this title and applicable installation 
Standards and inspection specifications for infrastructure improvements. 
23
 
C.  Subdivisions: 
 
1.  Special Provision: When a single parcel includes multiple Zones, Density 
may be located upon the Parcel in the most appropriate manner 
irrespective of the boundaries of the Zones. 
 
2.  Plat Application required when land is subdivided: Whenever any land is laid 
out and platted, the owner of the land shall provide to the County an 
accurate Plat that describes or specifies: 
 
a.  A Subdivision name that is distinct from any Subdivision name on a 
Plat recorded in the County Recorder’s office; and 
 
b. The boundaries course and dimensions of all the Parcels of ground 
divided, by their boundaries, course and extent, whether the Owner 
proposed that any Parcel of ground is intended to be used as a Street 
or for any other public use, and whether any such area is reserved or 
proposed for dedication for a public purpose; and 
 
c.  The Lot or unit reference, block or Building reference, Street or site 
address, Street name or coordinate address, acreage or square 
footage for all Parcels, unit or Lots, and length and width of the blocks 
and Lots intended for sale; and 
 
d.  Every existing Right-of-Way and recorded Easement located within 
the Plat for: 
 
(1)  an underground facility; and 
(2)  a water conveyance facility; or 
(3)  any other utility facility. 
 
e.  Any water conveyance facility located, entirely or partially, within the 
Plat that: 
 
(1)  is not recorded; and 
(2)  of which the Owner of the land has actual or constructive 
knowledge, including from information made available to the 
owner of the land, in the State Engineer’s inventory of canals or 
from a licensed surveyor. The Owner of the land shall file an 
Application for approval of the Plat. The Application form is 
available at the Community Development 
Department. A complete Application shall include all elements 
of the Subdivision listed in this section and shall provide all 
24
information required by the Subdivision Application. The CDD 
may waive or defer specific submittal requirements if it is 
determined that the submittal requirement(s) are not 
necessary to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of 
this chapter. 
 
3.  All Land Necessary for Density Required: All of the land required for the 
Density needed to create the Lots within the Subdivision, including a 
Remnant Parcel, which on its own would not be large enough to qualify for 
any Density, shall be contained within the boundaries of the Final 
Subdivision Plat, and any remnant Parcel shall bear a Plat note stating that 
no Density exists on such Remnant Parcel until such time (if ever) as the 
Zone is changed to permit additional Density rights and the Remnant Parcel 
is, if necessary, re-subdivided in accordance with this  chapter; or the 
Remnant Parcel is otherwise vacated from the Final Subdivision Plat for the 
purposes of a Parcel Boundary Adjustment, which shall constitute good 
cause for thereof under State law. 
 
4.  Remainder Parcel: In the event that the Parcel(s) being Subdivided contain 
more land than that which is needed to establish the Density for the 
Subdivision, such Remainder Parcel(s) do not need to be included within the 
boundaries of the Final Subdivision Plat if each of such 
Remainder Parcel(s) (or such number of them if contiguous) conform to the 
minimum size requirement of the applicable Zone at the time. In such cases, 
a certificate executed by the County shall be recorded with the County 
Recorder, at the same time as the Final Subdivision Plat is 
recorded, against the Remainder Parcel(s) located outside of the Final 
Subdivision Plat stating that such Remainder Parcel(s) are Conforming 
Parcels pursuant to this Chapter. 
 
5.  Separate Review: Preliminary Subdivision Plats and Final Subdivision Plats 
shall be processed as separate Applications. 
 
6.  Land Use Authority: The Land Use Authority for preliminary Subdivision Plats 
shall be the Planning Commission and the County Manager for Final 
Subdivision Plats. 
 
7.  Subdivision Improvement Plan: A Subdivision Improvement Plan shall be 
submitted and reviewed as part of the Subdivision Plan Review during the 
Final Subdivision Plat process. 
8.  Preliminary Subdivision: 
 
a.  Pre-Application Meeting. 
 
25
(1)  A pre-application meeting is not required for Subdivision 
Applications subject to this Chapter, but is recommended. If a 
pre-application meeting is requested by an Applicant for a 
Subdivision Application subject to this Chapter, the 
Community Development Department shall, within 15 
business days after the request, schedule the meeting to 
review the concept plan and provide initial feedback. 
 
(2)  The CDD shall provide at the pre-application meeting or have 
available on the County website the following: 
 
(A)  copies of applicable land use regulations; and 
(B)  a complete list of standards required for the project; 
and 
(C)  preliminary and final application checklists; and 
(D)  feedback on the concept plan. 
 
b.  Notification of Water Conveyance Facility: 
 
(1)  Within 20 days after the day on which an owner of land 
submits to the County a complete Subdivision Plat land use 
application, the County shall mail written notice of the 
proposed subdivision to the facility owner or any water 
conveyance facility located, entirely or partially, within 100 
feet of the Subdivision Plat. 
 
(2)  The County shall not approve the Subdivision Plat for at least 
20 days after the day on which the County mails to each facility 
owner the notice to receive any comments from each facility 
owner regarding: 
 
(A)  Access to the water conveyance facility; and 
(B)  maintenance of the water conveyance facility; and 
(C)  protection of the water conveyance facility integrity; 
and 
(D)  safety of the water conveyance facility; or 
(E)  any other issue related to water conveyance facility 
operations. 
 
c.  Subdivision Review: The Director or designated planning staff 
member shall conduct a review that includes all Affected Entities and 
Service Providers no later than 15 business days after the day on 
which an Applicant submits a complete Subdivision Application. 
Upon completion of the Subdivision Review, the Director or 
26
designated planning staff member shall prepare a report and make 
findings and recommendations and shall schedule a public hearing 
before the Planning Commission as soon thereafter as may be 
practicable. 
 
d.  Subdivision Review Standards: The following Subdivision review 
Standards apply. Because of the limited time frame for preliminary 
review, compliance with Standards may be written in the form of 
conditions of approval to be met during the Subdivision Plan Review 
part of the Final Subdivision Plat. 
 
1.  The Subdivision is compliant with the General Plan. 
2.  The Subdivision is designed to fit into the topography of the 
site. Lots shall be sited to best fit into the natural terrain, to 
minimize excessive site grading and to mitigate impacts on the 
natural environment and resources of the surrounding area. 
The Subdivision layout shall demonstrate the preservation of 
watercourses, drainage areas, wooded areas, rough terrain 
and similar natural feature areas. 
3.  The Subdivision considers adjacent land Uses. Site design 
shall mitigate any potential adverse impacts including but not 
limited to flooding, erosion, subsidence, sloping of the soil or 
other dangers or nuisances. 
4.  Where appropriate, subdivisions shall be designed to 
accommodate a variety of transportation modes. 
Vehicle/pedestrian/bicycle/equestrian circulation shall be 
demonstrated, and where possible 
pedestrian/bicycle/equestrian circulation should be separated 
from vehicular circulation. 
5.  Each proposed Lot shall have legal Access through a recorded 
Right-Of-Way or Easement. The Applicant shall demonstrate 
that adequate Access to the property from a Public Road may 
be granted by the State or County, whichever is applicable. 
6.  Compliance with the Development Evaluation Standards 
provided in chapter 2 of this title. 
7.  Compliance with the infrastructure standards in chapter 6 of 
this title. 
8.  The minimum Lot size for new Lots created through this 
process will meet the minimum Lot size requirements for the 
applicable Zone. 
 
e.  Public Hearing: The Planning Commission may hold no more than one 
public hearing for a preliminary Subdivision Plat. 
 
27
f.  Preliminary Subdivision Approval: If a preliminary Subdivision Plat 
complies with this title and all other applicable Standards and 
specifications, the Planning Commission shall approve the 
preliminary Subdivision Plat. The Applicant shall be notified of the 
approval in the form of a letter specifically identifying each condition 
of approval along with the approved preliminary Subdivision and any 
other accompanying documents determined to be relevant by the 
Director or designated planning staff member. After preliminary 
Subdivision Plat approval, the Applicant may submit a Final 
Subdivision Plat Application. 
 
9.  Final Subdivision: 
 
a.  Upon approval of the preliminary Subdivision Plat, the Applicant shall 
submit a Final Subdivision Plat Application with all required material 
for the 
Subdivision Plan Review, including Subdivision Improvement Plans, 
and any amendments required by the Planning Commission during 
preliminary review. 
 
b.  No later than 20 business days after the day on which an Applicant 
submits all the required materials for the Final Subdivision Plat, the 
Director or designated planning staff member shall complete a 
Subdivision Plan Review subject to this Chapter. 
 
c.  Review Cycles: After conducting the Subdivision Plan Review, the 
Director may require that the Applicant provide: 
 
(1)  additional information relating to an Applicant's plans to 
ensure compliance with County ordinances and approved 
Standards and specifications for construction of Public 
Improvements; and 
(2)  modification to plans that do not meet current ordinances, 
applicable Standards, or specifications, or do not contain 
complete information. 
 
d.  The Director or designated planning staff member’s request for 
additional information or modifications to plans under (c)(1), and (2) 
above shall be specific and refer to conditions of approval included in 
the preliminary approval, regulations, Standards, or specifications 
that require the modifications to plans, and shall be logged in an 
index of requested modifications or additions. 
 
e.  Unless the change or correction is necessitated by the Applicant's 
28
adjustment to a plan set or an update to a phasing plan that adjusts 
the infrastructure needed for the specific Development, a change or 
correction not addressed or referenced in the County’s Subdivision 
Plan Review is waived, except if the modifications or corrections are 
necessary to protect public health and safety or to enforce state or 
federal law. 
 
f.  If an Applicant does not submit a revised plan within 20 business days 
after the Director or designated planning staff member requires a 
modification or correction, the County shall have an additional 20 
business days to respond to the plans. 
 
g.  After the Applicant has responded to the final Review Cycle, and the 
Applicant has complied with each modification requested in the 
County’s previous Review Cycle, the County may not require 
additional revisions if the Applicant has not materially changed the 
plan, other than changes that were in response to requested 
modifications or corrections. 
 
h. Utah Code Annotated section 17-79-706(8)(c) limits Review Cycles to 
no more than four. 
 
i.  The Review Cycle restrictions and requirements of this Chapter do 
not apply to review of Subdivision Applications affecting property 
within identified Geological Hazard Areas. 
 
j.  Applicant’s Reply to Community Development Department’s  
Response: 
 
(1)  In addition to revised plans submitted during final Subdivision 
Plat Reviews, an Applicant shall provide a written explanation 
in response to the Director or designated planning staff 
member’s review comments with each Review Cycle, 
identifying and explaining the Applicant's revisions and 
reasons for declining to make revisions, if any. 
 
(2)  The Applicant's written explanation shall be comprehensive 
and specific, including citations to applicable Standards and 
ordinances for the design and an index of requested revisions 
or additions for each required correction. 
 
(3)  If an Applicant fails to address a review comment in the 
response, the Review Cycle is not complete and the 
subsequent Review Cycle may not begin until all comments 
29
are addressed. 
 
n.  Appeal: If, on the fourth or final Review Cycle, the Community 
Development Department fails to take final action on the Subdivision 
within 20 business days, the County shall, upon the request of the 
property owner, and within 10 business days after the day on which 
the request is received: 
 
(1)  For a dispute arising from the Subdivision Improvement Plans, 
assemble an appeal panel in accordance with Subsection 17-
79-812(5)(d) of Utah Code Annotated to review and approve or 
deny the final revised set of plans; or 
 
(2)  For a dispute arising from the Subdivision ordinance review, 
advise the Applicant in writing of the deficiency in the 
Application and of the right to appeal the determination to the 
County Council. 
 
o.  The County Manager shall approve a Final Subdivision Plat if the Final 
Subdivision Plat complies with the Planning Commission’s 
preliminary Subdivision approval, applicable Code regulations, and 
all other applicable Standards and specifications. 
 
10.  Plat Preparation: 
 
In addition to all requirements in Section C.2 of this chapter, prior to 
recordation, the final Plat shall contain the following: 
 
a.  Notarized signatures of each owner of record of land described in the 
Plat in the Owner’s designation part of the Plat. 
b.  Notarized signatures on the Plat by every person having a security 
interest in the property which sets forth that he/she is subordinating 
his/her liens to all covenants, servitude and easements imposed on 
the property, and all conditions of Development approval proposed 
by the County. 
 
c.  Signatures of the County Recorder, Land Use Authority, County 
Engineer, Health Department, the Public Safety Answering Point, 
applicable Fire District and County Attorney. 
 
d.  Certification by a surveyor licensed in the State of Utah. 
 
e.  Notes stating the following: 
 
30
(1) "Further subdivision of such lands, whether by deed, bequest, 
divorce, decree, or other recorded instrument, shall not result 
in a buildable lot until the same has been approved in 
accordance with the Eastern Summit County Development 
Code." 
 
(2)  "The owners of property within Eastern Summit County 
recognize the importance of agricultural lands and operations 
and small rural business enterprises. It is recognized that 
agricultural lands and operations and rural business 
enterprises have unique operating characteristics that must be 
respected. Owners of each lot platted in this subdivision/the 
owner of the residence constructed upon this lot have/has 
been given notice and recognize(s) that there are active 
agriculture lands and operations and rural business 
enterprises within Eastern Summit County and 
acknowledge(s) and accept(s) that, so long as such lands and 
operations exist, there may be dust, noise, odor, prolonged 
work hours, use of roadways for the purposes of 
herding/moving livestock, and other attributes associated with 
normal agricultural operations and rural businesses." 
 
(3)  For Subdivisions of 3 lots or less: “Water has not been 
approved for this Subdivision. It shall be the responsibility of 
each lot owner to demonstrate that water of adequate quality 
and quantity is available for each lot prior to the issuance of a 
building permit. This shall be accomplished with a 
memorandum of decision from the Utah Water State Engineer 
for a private well or a written commitment from a municipality 
or private company.” 
 
11.  Plat Recordation 
 
a.  After the Plat has been acknowledged, certified and approved, the 
Owner of the land seeking to record the Plat shall record the Plat in 
the County Recorder’s office per the requirements in Section 11-6-13 
of this title. 
 
b.  The County may withhold an otherwise valid Plat approval until the 
Owner of the land provides the Community Development Department 
with a tax clearance indicating that all taxes, interest, and penalties 
owing the land have been paid. 
 
c.  Within 30 days after approving a Final Plat, the County shall submit to 
31
the Utah Geospatial Resource Center: 
 
(1)  An electronic copy of the approved Final Plat; or 
 
(2) Preliminary geospatial data that depicts any new streets and 
situs addresses proposed for construction within the bound of 
the approved Plat. 
 
11-4-5(F)(1)(a) and (G)(2). Parcel Boundary Adjustments: 
 
1. A property Owner: 
 
a. May execute a Parcel Boundary Adjustment by quitclaim deed or by 
boundary line agreement as described in Utah Code Annotated 
section 17-79-806, 17-79-807, or 57-1-45. 
 
G.  Divisions Of Land For Non-Development Purposes: 
 
2. A division of a Parcel without conformance to the Final Subdivision Plat 
requirements of this chapter or the certificate required by Utah Code 
Annotated section 17-79-708, as amended, does not create a Conforming 
Parcel for purposes of this chapter. However, in conformance with Utah 
Code Annotated section 17-79-708, as amended, such divisions of land can 
be recorded for purposes of conveying property ownership.  
 
11-6-5(A)(1)(a-e), (2)(g), (B)(1), (2)(d): ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS, INTERNAL 
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS, AND LIVE/WORK DWELLING UNITS: 
 
A.  Accessory Dwelling Units: Accessory Dwelling Units are incidental to and on the 
same Lot as a Single-Family Detached Dwelling Unit. 
 
1.  Location: Accessory Dwelling Units may be established: 
 
a.  within the footprint of a Single-Family Detached Dwelling Unit; 
b.  attached to a Single-Family Detached Dwelling Unit; 
c.  within or attached to a larger Accessory Structure (such as a barn or 
garage); 
d.  on the same Lot as a Single-Family Detached Dwelling Unit; or 
e.  built as a standalone structure on the same Lot as a Single-Family 
Detached Dwelling Unit. 
 
2.  General Standards: All Accessory Dwelling Units shall conform to the 
following standards: 
 
32
g.  Certificate of Occupancy: A certificate of occupancy for an Accessory 
Dwelling Unit shall only be granted concurrent with or after the 
issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the Single-Family Detached 
Dwelling Unit or the associated commercial Use. If an existing 
residence is proposed to be converted to an Accessory Dwelling Unit 
in conjunction with a proposed primary Single-Family Detached 
Dwelling Unit, the Building Permit for the new primary Single-Family 
Detached Dwelling Unit shall not be issued until Staff has determined 
that the structure to be converted to an Accessory Dwelling Unit 
complies with all applicable requirements. 
 
B.  Internal Accessory Dwelling Units: As an alternative to the standards in Section 11-
6-5(A), the following standards apply. Internal Accessory Dwelling Units are an 
incidental residential use within the Building footprint of a Single-Family Detached 
Dwelling Unit. 
 
1.  Applicability: Internal Accessory Dwelling Units must comply with the 
standards found in Utah Code Annotated section 17-80-303 as amended. If 
an Accessory Dwelling Unit is within or attached to a Single-Family Detached 
Dwelling Unit but does not comply with all standards 
in Utah Code Annotated section 17-80-303 as amended, the standards 
outlined in Section 11-6-5(A) of this Title shall apply. 
 
2.  Standards: Internal Accessory Dwelling units must comply with the following 
standards: 
 
d.  Parking: In addition to the required parking for a Single-Family 
Detached Dwelling Unit, at least one (1) off-street parking space must 
be provided for the Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit. 
 
11-6-16(F)(1)(d)(1): ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS: 
 
F. Site Plan Requirements: Three (3) copies of a site plan, a minimum size of eleven 
inches by seventeen inches (11"x17") (must be legible) and a maximum size of thirty 
six inches by forty eight inches (36"x48") shall be submitted with all Building Permit 
Applications for all new construction, including additions, Accessory Buildings, and 
garages. 
 
(1) Agricultural Exempt Buildings that comply with section 17-79-708 of the 
Utah Code Annotated are excluded from these site plan requirements. 
However, Agricultural Exempt Buildings closer than three feet (3') to the 
required Setback line or greater than twenty eight feet (28') in Height will 
require an inspection by the community development department to ensure 
that Setback and Height requirements for the Zone district in which they are 
33
located are being met. 
 
11-6-19(C): HAZARDOUS LIQUIDS OR MATERIALS TRANSMISSION PIPELINES: 
 
C: Definitions: 
  
JURISDICTIONAL WETLANDS: An area delineated and approved as a wetland by the United 
States army corps of engineers consistent with Utah Code Annotated section 17-79-608. 
 
11-7-10(B): PENALTY: 
 
B. The County Attorney reserves the right to enforce this title using any of the remedies 
provided for in Utah Code Annotated section 17-79-901. 
 
11-7-14(B): VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES: 
 
B. The County Attorney reserves the right to enforce this title using any of the remedies 
provided for in Utah Code Annotated section 17-79-901. 
 
11-7-15: REMEDIES: 
 
No person may challenge in district court a land Use decision under this title until they 
have exhausted all of their administrative remedies provided herein. Any person adversely 
affected by any final administrative decision made pursuant to this title must file a petition 
for review of that final decision with the district court within thirty (30) days and comply 
with all other requirements of Utah Code Annotated section 17-79-1009. Failure to comply 
with this section of the state law divests the district court of subject matter jurisdiction to 
review decisions of the county.  
 
11-7-16(B) and (E): APPEAL PROCEDURES: 
 
B. Timing: Unless otherwise specified in this section or under the County Land Use 
Management Act contained within Title 17, Chapter 79 of the Utah Code Annotated, 
all appeal periods are based upon calendar days and appeals must be received on 
or before the close of business (5:00 p.m.) on the last day of the appeal period. 
Failure to file a completed appeal form (Application) within the time period specific 
shall act as a jurisdictional bar and render the appeal moot. Electronic submissions 
of completed Applications (.pdf, .jpg, .tif, etc.) will be accepted by the county via 
email if time stamped as being received prior to 5:00 p.m. on the last day of the 
appeal period. 
 
E.  Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 17-79-1009, et. seq. an appeal of a 
County Council or Administrative Law Judge action goes to district court. 
 
34
Appendix A: Definitions 
 
ADVERSE IMPACT: Any potential or actual effect (impact) that is or may be harmful or 
injurious to human health, welfare, safety, or property, to biological productivity, diversity, 
or stability or which unreasonably interferes with the reasonable use of property. The term 
includes secondary and cumulative as well as direct effects or impacts. 
 
AFFECTED ENTITY: A county, municipality, local district, special service district, school 
district, interlocal cooperation entity, property owners association, public utility, or the 
Utah Department of Transportation, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 17-79-
102(3) or successor law. 
 
CERTIFICATE: A document which conforms to the requirements of Utah Code Annotated 
section 17-79-708(1) or successor law. 
 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT: The Summit County department of 
community development. 
 
COUNTY ASSESSOR: In accordance with Utah Code Annotated title 17, chapter 67, the 
duly elected Assessor of Summit County or his/her designee. 
 
COUNTY ATTORNEY: In accordance with Utah Code Annotated title 17, chapter 68, the 
duly elected Attorney of Summit County or his/her designee. 
 
COUNTY RECORDER: In accordance with Utah Code Annotated title 17, chapter 71, the 
duly elected Recorder of Summit County or his/her designee. 
 
DIRECTOR: The Director of the Community Development Department, or authorized 
designee, with overall administrative control of the planning, building and zoning functions 
of the County, under the direction of the County Manager. 
 
DWELLING UNIT, SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED: A detached principal building, other than a 
mobile home, designed for and used as a dwelling unit exclusively by one (1) family and its 
guests. May be referred to as a single-family dwelling unit. 
LAND USE AUTHORITY: The Community Development Director, Planning Commission, 
Administrative Law Judge, County Manager or County Council, as the case may be, who is 
empowered under this title to make land use decisions on behalf of Summit County. 
 
PARCEL BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT: An adjustment to property boundaries as set forth in 
Utah Code Annotated section 17-79-806, 17-79-807, or 57-1-45. 
 
STANDARDS: Specific measurements of the quantity or quality of various elements of 
development. 
 
35
SUBDIVISION: Any land that is divided, re-subdivided, or proposed to be divided into two 
(2) or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots, or other division of land for the purpose, 
whether immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease, or development either on the 
installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms and conditions. Subdivision 
includes the division or development of land whether by deed, metes and bounds 
description, devise and testacy, map, plat, or other recorded instrument. Subdivision 
includes divisions of land for residential and nonresidential uses, including land used or to 
be used for commercial, agricultural, and industrial purposes. Subdivision does not 
include a bone fide division or partition of agricultural land for agricultural purposes or 
activity, nor does it include any of the specific circumstances designated in Utah Code 
Annotated section 17-79-708, as amended. 
__________________________________________________________________________ 
 
APPENDIX C (D) 
ADULT/SEX ORIENTED FACILITIES AND BUSINESSES 
 
D.  Right Of Appeal: All appeals from denials by the Planning Commission of 
Conditional Use Permit applications shall be as provided in title 10 of this Code, the 
Eastern Summit County Development Code (this title) (as applicable), and Utah 
Code Annotated, section 17-79-1009, to the District Court within thirty (30) days of 
the Planning Commission's final action. 
36
 Community Development Department 
P.O. Box 128 
60 North Main Street 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
summitcountyutah.gov 
 
 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
To:   Eastern Summit County Planning Commission  
From:   Tiffanie N. Robinson, Senior Planner 
Date of Meeting: January 15, 2026 
Type of Item:  Plat Amendment – Public Hearing, Possible Action 
Process:  Administrative Review 
Project Number: 25-180 
 
Proposal 
The applicant, Dave Nichols, requests an amendment to the Forest Meadow Ranch Plat D, Lot 
124 Subdivision to adjust the exterior boundary of FM- D-124 with the adjacent parcel SS-144-Z, 
increasing the size of Lot 124 from 2.0 acres to 9.42 acres and reducing pa rcel SS-144-Z from 
11.65 acres to 4.224 acres. EXHIBIT A 
 
Project Description 
Project Name: Forest Meadow Ranch Plat D Amended 
Applicant(s):   Dave Nichols 
Property Owner(s):  Dave and Deanna Nichols J/T 
Location:   2200 S. Forest Meadow Road 
Zone District:   Agriculture 80 (AG-80) 
Parcel Number and Size: FM-D-124, 2.0 acres 
    SS-144-Z, 11.65 acres 
Type of Application:  Plat Amendment 
Final Land Use Authority: Eastern Summit County Planning Commission (ESCPC)  
 
Vicinity Map 
37
Background 
On August 9, 1972, the Forest Meadow Ranch Plat D Subdivision, as recorded in Summit County 
(Entry Number 00095105) EXHIBIT B.  The subdivision contains 89 lots, ranging from 1.68 acres 
to 10.53 acres. 
 
On October 4, 2006, a lot line adjustment was recorded between multiple parcel and property 
owners for lots adjacent to the Forest Meadow Plat D subdivision, including parcel SS-144-Z. After 
the lawful adjustment was recorded, additional deeds were recorded in 2008 to change the 
conforming description of SS -144-Z, creating two nonconforming  parcels. However, in August 
2025, the applicant worked with the Recorder’s Office to rectify the division of SS -144-Z and re-
establish the parcel's conforming status. 
 
On October 2, 2025, a plat amendment application was received to adjust the exterior boundary 
of Forest Meadow Ranch Plat D Subdivision with the adjacent parcel SS-144-Z. 
 
Staff sent the proposed plat to applicable service providers for their review. Aside from technical 
corrections to the plat, no concerns were raised.  
 
Analysis and Findings 
The Planning Commission may approve, app rove with conditions, or deny an Amendment to a 
Recorded Subdivision Plat based upon written findings of fact according to each of the following 
standards. It is the applicant's responsibility  to provide written and graphic evidence 
demonstrating compliance. 
  
Section 11-4-5 of the Eastern Summit County Development Code sets the following grounds for 
vacating or changing a plat: 
 
1. If the Land Use Authority is satisfied that there is good cause for the vacation, alteration 
or amendment, and the public interest or any person shall not be materially injured by 
the proposed vacation, alteration or amendment, the Land Use Authority may v acate, 
alter or amend a public or private road within a final subdivision plat. 
 
Analysis: The Planning Commission is the final Land Use Authority for this plat 
amendment because a portion of the subdivision's exterior boundary is being amended. 
There are no proposed amendments or vacations to any public or private roads. There is 
no evidence to  suggest that the proposed alteration will have a material impact on the 
public interest. Both Parcels FM -D-124 and SS -144-Z are owned by Dave and DeAnna 
Nichols. This Plat Amendment would legally adjust the boundaries to create two similar -
sized lots, consistent with surrounding parcels inside and outside the subdivision. Both 
parcels are considered conforming, and by lawfully adjusting their boundaries, they will 
remain conforming parcels. COMPLIES 
 
38
2. No subdivision plat amendment that vacates, alters , or amends a public or private road 
shall be approved that results in an increase in density except as provided in subsection 
E10 of this section. 
 
Analysis: The amendment adjusts the exterior boundary for a lot within a platted 
subdivision and a lot outside of the subdivision, but does not affect any other parcels.  The 
proposal will not increase density. COMPLIES 
 
Public Notice, Meetings and Comments  
This item was noticed as a public hearing and possible action  in the January 6, 2026, edition  of 
the Park Record. Postcard courtesy notices were also mailed to property owners within 1,000 
feet of the property.  At the time of this report, no public comment has been received. 
 
Recommendation 
Staff recommends that the Commission consider the criteria outlined in this report, hold a public 
hearing, and vote to approve  the proposed Forest Meadow Ranch Plat D Subdivision, Lot 124 
Amended, based upon the following Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Conditions of 
Approval.  
 
Findings of Fact 
1. Parcels FM-D-124 and SS-144-Z are owned by Dave and DeAnna Nichols. 
2. Parcels FM-D-124 and SS-144-Z  are located in the Agriculture 80 (AG-80) zoning district. 
3. On August 9, 1972, the Forest Meadow Ranch Plat D Subdivision was recorded in Summit 
County (Entry Number 000116550).  
4. The original Forest Meadow Plat D Subdivision Plat shows Parcel FM-D-124 as 2.0 acres. 
5. Conforming parcel SS-144-Z is approximately 11.65 acres.  
6. On October 2, 2025,  the Community Development Department received a Plat 
Amendment application to adjust the property boundaries of Lot 124 of the Forest 
Meadow Ranch Plat D Subdivision and the adjacent parcel outside of the subdivision, SS-
144-Z . 
7. The result of this amendment would increase the size of Parcel FM -D-124 from 2.0 acres 
to 9.42 acres and reduce Parcel SS-144-Z from 11.65 acres to 4.224 acres. 
8. The plat amendment does not result in any additional lots. 
9. Staff sent the proposed  plat to applicable service providers for their review . Aside from 
technical corrections to the plat, no concerns were raised.  
 
Conclusions of Law 
1. The proposed plat amendment is consistent with all prior approvals for the project. 
2. There is good cause for this plat amendment. 
3. Approval of the proposed plat amendment will not adversely affect the public health, 
safety, and general welfare.  
4. The proposed plat amendment does not increase the existing density. 
39
 
Conditions of Approval 
1. All necessary service provider requirements shall be satisfied before recordation of the 
plat amendment. 
2. Final plat recordation documents shall be in a form that is acceptable to and approved 
by the County Attorney’s Office and the County Recorder’s Office. 
 
Attachment(s) 
EXHIBIT A – Proposed Forest Meadow Ranch Plat D Subdivision Lot 124 Amended 
EXHIBIT B – Recorded Forest Meadow Ranch Plat D Subdivision (Entry Number 000116550) 
 
40
203.45'
1799.02'
N89° 40' 50"E 2679.18'
SAMUEL N FINCH
FM-D-123SAMUEL J KLEIN, TRUSTEE
FM-D-120
TYLER HARTLE (JT)
FM-D-119
JULIANNE F BEEKMAN
FM-D-181
ALVIN S & DONNA Y
ANDERSON, TRUSTEES
SS-138-B-1
CONCORD
PROPERTIES LLC
SS-144-B
(BASIS OF BEARING) S00° 02' 46"W 2672.09'
DAVID T & DEANNA R NICHOLS (JT)
2200 S FOREST MEADOW ROAD
LOT 124
410,588 SQUARE FEET
9.426 ACRES DAVID TROY AND
DEANNA RUTH
NICHOLS (JT)
SS-144
ORIGINAL LOT 124
FOREST MEADOW ROAD
LOT LINE REMOVED
VIA THIS PLAT AMENDMENT
410.00'
S69° 48' 48"W
131.33'
N00° 02' 46"E
669.63'
N90° 00' 00"E
110.00'
N69° 43' 00"E65.38'
N55° 24' 00"E147.31'
S61° 56' 16"E
133.24'
N00° 00' 00"E
162.10'
N89° 40' 50"E
676.69'
S00° 26' 26"W
329.73'
150.48'
S54° 44' 03"W
493.82'
N39° 26' 14"W212.18'
S51° 38' 10"W
558.63'
S61° 59' 37"E
92.10'
S75° 29' 59"E
206.14'
S67° 19' 26"E
102.51'
164.29'
S89° 42' 26" W
137.18'
P P P P P P P P
(A PRIVATE ROAD)
S79° 00' 41"E 314.77'
DAVID T & DEANNA R NICHOLS (JT)
2183 S FOREST MEADOW RD
PARCEL SS-144-Z
184,008 SQUARE FEET
4.224 ACRES
SCALE: 1" = 50'
SURVEYED BY
Geospatial solutions
5693 S 675 E MURRAY, UT 84107
801-707-1012
DRAFTED BY
LEGEND:
SET REBAR AND CAP
BOUNDARY LINE
NEIGHBOR BOUNDARY LINE
FOUND SECTION CORNER AS NOTED
SITE
P P POWER LINE
DRAWN DATE: AUGUST 2025 
EXHIBIT A
41
EXHIBIT B
42
 Community Development Department 
P.O. Box 128 
60 North Main Street 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
summitcounty.org 
 
  
60 North MainP.O. Box 128 Coalville, UT 84017  
Phone (435) 336 -3124, 615-3124, 783-4351 x3124Fax (435) 336-3024 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
To:   Eastern Summit County Planning Commission  
From:   Laura Kuhrmeyer, County Planner 
Date of Meeting: January 15, 2025 
Type of Item:  Plat Amendment – Public Hearing, Possible Action 
Process:  Administrative Review 
Project Number: 25-171 
 
 
Project Description 
Project Name: Hidden Lake Ranch Subdivision, Lots 55 & 56 Amended 
Applicant(s):   Ryan & Aimee Oviatt 
Property Owner(s):  Ryan Wayne Oviatt Trustee 
Location:   8318 Aspen Loop 
Zone District:   Agriculture 80 (AG-80) 
Parcel Number and Size: HL-55 (0.37 acres) & HL-56 (0.36 acres) 
Final Land Use Authority: Plat Amendment – Eastern Summit County Planning 
Commission (ESCPC)  
 
Proposal 
The applicants are requesting an amendment to Lots 55 and 56 of the Hidden Lake Ranch 
Subdivision (Recorded in 1962, Entry Number 00095105). The original Subdivision Plat shows 
Parcel HL-55 as approximately 0.33 and Parcel HL-56 as approximately 0.31 acres. There is a 
small section of land abutting the southern boundary of the Subdivision that the applicants are 
requesting to incorporate into Parcels HL-55 and HL-56. The result of this amendment would 
increase the size of Parcel HL-55 from 0.33 acres to 0.363 acres and increase the size of Parcel 
HL-56 from 0.31 acres to 0.384 acres. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
43
Vicinity Map 
 
 
Background 
On May 7, 1962, the Hidden Lake Ranch Subdivision (Exhibit B) was recorded in Summit County 
(Entry Number 00095105).  
 
In July of 2025, Summit County received a building permit application for demolition of an 
existing residence on Parcel HL-56. On July 22, 2025, Summit County received a building permit 
application to construct a new Single-Family Dwelling Unit on that parcel. Due to the metes and 
bounds piece of land being a separate Parcel based on County records, the Setbacks would not 
have been met. In order to resolve this, the applicant submitted a Plat Amendment application 
in September 2025 to adjust the property boundaries of Lots 55 and 56 of the Hidden Lake 
Ranch Subdivision and combine the two metes and bounds parcels into the respective Hidden 
Lake Ranch Parcels. 
 
 
 
 
44
Analysis and Findings 
The Planning Commission may approve, approve with conditions, or deny an Amendment to a 
Recorded Subdivision Plat based upon written findings of fact according to each of the 
following standards. It is the responsibility of the applicant to provide written and graphic 
evidence demonstrating compliance. 
  
Section 11-4-5 of the Eastern Summit County Development Code sets the following grounds for 
vacating or changing a plat: 
 
1. If the Land Use Authority is satisfied that there is good cause for the vacation, alteration 
or amendment, and the public interest or any person shall not be materially injured by 
the proposed vacation, alteration or amendment, the Land Use Authority may vacate, 
alter or amend a public or private road within a final subdivision plat. 
 
Analysis: Both Parcels HL-55 and HL-56 are owned by Ryan Wayne Oviatt Trustee. 
This Plat Amendment would legally combine the two metes and bounds parcels with the 
Hidden Lake Ranch Parcels 55 and 56. This will also allow the Applicant to construct the 
new Single-Family Dwelling unit in the proposed location on Parcel HL-56. COMPLIES 
 
2. No subdivision plat amendment that vacates, alters or amends a public or private road 
shall be approved which results in an increase in density except as provided in 
subsection E10 of this section. 
 
Analysis: The proposal will not result in an increase in density. COMPLIES 
 
Public Notice, Meetings and Comments   
This item was noticed as a public hearing and possible action regarding a proposed amendment 
to Hidden Lake Ranch Subdivision in the Park Record. Postcard Courtesy notices were also 
mailed to property owners within 1,000 feet of the property. 
 
Recommendation 
Staff recommends that the Commission consider the criteria outlined in this report, hold a 
public hearing, and vote to approve the proposed Hidden Lake Ranch Subdivision, Lots 55 & 56 
Amended, based upon the following Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Conditions of 
Approval.  
 
Findings of Fact 
1. Parcels HL-55 (0.33 acres) and HL-56 (0.31 acres) are both located in the Agriculture 80 
(AG-80) zoning district and are owned by Ryan Wayne Oviatt Trustee. 
2. On May 7, 1962, the Hidden Lake Ranch Subdivision (Exhibit B) was recorded in Summit 
County (Entry Number 00095105).  
45
3. The original Subdivision Plat shows Parcel HL-55 as approximately 0.33 and Parcel HL-56 
as approximately 0.31 acres.  
4. In September 2025, the Community Development Department received a Plat 
Amendment application to adjust the property boundaries of Lots 55 and 56 of the 
Hidden Lake Ranch Subdivision. 
5. There is a small section of land abutting the southern boundary of the Subdivision that 
the applicants are requesting to incorporate into Parcels HL-55 and HL-56. The result of 
this amendment would increase the size of Parcel HL-55 from 0.33 acres to 0.363 acres 
and increase the size of Parcel HL-56 from 0.31 acres to 0.384 acres 
6. The plat amendment does not create additional lots. 
7. Staff sent the proposed plat to applicable service providers for their review and no 
concerns were brought up.  
 
Conclusions of Law 
1. The proposed plat amendment is consistent with all prior approvals for the project. 
2. There is good cause for this plat amendment. 
3. Approval of the proposed plat amendment will not adversely affect the public health, 
safety, and general welfare.  
4. The proposed plat amendment does not increase the existing density. 
 
Conditions of Approval  
1. All necessary service provider requirements shall be satisfied prior to recordation of 
the plat amendment. 
2. Final plat recordation documents shall be in a form that is acceptable to and approved 
by the County Attorney’s Office and the County Recorder’s Office. 
 
Attachments 
Exhibit A – Proposed Hidden Lake Ranch Subdivision, Lots 55 & 56 Amended 
Exhibit B – Recorded Hidden Lake Ranch Subdivision (Entry Number 00095105) 
 
46
S89°20'52"W  124.46'
S89°19'42"W  124.46'
N1°06'55"W  117.38'
S1°07'03"E  132.73'
PARCEL 1
(PLATTED LOT 55)
14,514 S.F.
0.333 Acres
13,681 S.F.
0.314 Acres
PARCEL 3
(PLATTED LOT 56)
PARCEL 2
2,235 S.F.
0.051 Acres
PARCEL 4
2,113 S.F.
0.048 Acres
N88°56'55"W  124.54' (MEAS)
(N87°50"W 124.54' REC)
S1°06'56"E  118.97' (MEAS)
(SOUTH 118.98' REC)
N88°53'05"E  124.46' (MEAS)
(WEST 124.45' REC)
N1°07'03"W  114.26' (MEAS)
(N0°01'W 114.28' REC)
PARCEL 2 TIE
S1°07'05"E  59.96' (MEAS)
(S1°06'55"E 59.96' REC)
S88°53'05"W  124.46' (MEAS)(S89°20'52"W 124.44' REC) S1°06'56"E  17.46' (MEAS)
(S01°06'55"E 59.96' REC)
N89°20'52"E  124.46' (MEAS/REC)
N1°07'03"W  18.46' (MEAS)
(N01°07'55"W 59.96' REC)
N80°37'05"E  125.76' (MEAS)
(S81°44'W 125.76' REC)
N1°06'55"W  100.89' (MEAS)
(SOUTH 100.89' REC)
S88°53'05"W  124.45' (MEAS)
(WEST 124.45' REC)
PARCEL 1 TIE
S1°07'55"E  41.50' (MEAS)
PARCEL 3 & 4 TIE
S1°06'55"E  42.50' (MEAS)
(SOUTH 42.51' REC)
S88°53'05"W  124.45' (MEAS)
(WEST 124.45' REC)
S1°06'55"E  16.49' (MEAS)
(SOUTH 16.44' REC)
N89°19'42"E  124.46' (MEAS)(S89°32'14"E 124.45' REC)
N1°06'56"W  17.46' (MEAS)
(NORTH 17.45' REC)
GRAVEL DRIVEWAY
SHED
HOUSE
DECK
BUNKHOUSE
SET REBAR &
CAP "PERIGEE"
SET REBAR &
CAP "PERIGEE"
SET REBAR &
CAP "PERIGEE"FOUND REBAR &
CAP "RLS 4855329"
FOUND REBAR &
CAP "RLS 4855329"
FOUND REBAR &
CAP "RLS 4855329"
WATER METER
TELEPHONE
PEDESTAL
PRELIMINARY
MARK DESCRIPTION
PLOTTED BY: PLOT DATE:
FILE NAME:
SOLICITATION NO:
SUBMITTED BY:
CKD BY:
DESIGNED BY:
DWN BY:
DATE:
SIZE:
ANSI D DATE APPR.
CONTRACT NO:
REV:
RECORD OF SURVEY
SURVEY PREPARED FOR
AIMEE OVIATT
LOT 55 AND 55 OF THE HIDDEN
LAKE RANCH SUBDIVISION
1 OF 1
SURVEY
RECORD OF SURVEY
PREPARED FOR
AIMEE OVIATT
LOT 55 AND 55 OF THE HIDDEN LAKE RANCH SUBDIVISION
BEING A PORTION OF THE WEST HALF OF SECTION 6,
TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 7 EAST,
SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN
GRAPHIC SCALE
( IN FEET )
1 Inch =
0
ft.
-2040 20 10
20
CENTER
SECTION 6, T1S, R7E, SLB&M
FOUND - ALUM. CAP 1975
PROVIDED BY COTTONWOOD TITLE COMPANY, FILE #: 193386-CPF, EFFECTIVE DATE:
AUGUST 20, 2025.
All of Lots 55 & 56 of the Hidden Lake Subdivision according to the official plat thereof, being more
particularly described as follows:
Beginning at a point that lies South 89°20'52" West 411.077 feet along the Quarter Section Line and
South 59.962 feet from the Center of Section 6, Township 1 South, Range 7 East, Salt Lake Base and
Meridian and running thence South 89°20'52" West 124.460 feet; thence South 89°19'42" West
124.457 feet; thence North 01°06'55" West 117.384 feet; thence North 80°37'05" East 125.760 feet;
thence South 88°56'55" East 124.540 feet; thence South 01°07'03" East 132.727 feet to the point of
beginning.
Property contains 0.747 acres, 32543 square feet.
SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE
AS-PROVIDED TITLE REPORT  DESCRIPTION
NARRATIVE:
THE PURPOSE OF THIS SURVEY IS TO ESTABLISH ON THE GROUND THE HEREON
DESCRIBED TRACT OF LAND FOR FUTURE DEVELOPMENT.  THE HIDDEN LAKE RANCH
SUBDIVISION PLAT HAS MULTIPLE  ERRORS. MULTIPLE SURVEYS, EXISTING
IMPROVEMENTS AND FOUND MONUMENTS WERE USED TO DETERMINE THE
BOUNDARY.
SURVEY # S-9059, "PROPERTY SURVEY FOR RYAN & AIMEE OVIATT", BY CHRIS MOORE
WAS CLOSELY REVIEWED AND RELIED ON FOR THIS SURVEY. PERIGEE DID NOT
LOCATE THE "ORIGINAL" STONE SHOWN ON SAID SURVEY AND THERE IS NO TIE SHOWN
TO THE BRASS CAP MARKING THE WEST QUARTER SHOWN ON SURVEY. THE
BOUNDARY SHOWN ON THIS SURVEY WERE DETERMINED AFTER SPEAKING WITH MR.
MOORE, WHO HAS PERFORMED MANY SURVEYS IN THIS SUBDIVISION AND BASED ON
THE EVIDENCE FOUND THROUGH OUT THE HIDDEN LAKES SUBDIVISION.
BASIS OF BEARINGS IS SOUTH 89°20'52" WEST 2425.51 FEET BETWEEN THE CENTER
AND THE WEST QUARTER CORNER OF SECTION 6, T1S, R7E
ERIC D. ROBINS P.L.S. 5152671
PERIGEE CONSULTING
9089 SOUTH 1300 WEST SUITE 160
WEST JORDAN, UTAH 84088
STATE OF UTAH
I, Eric D. Robins, depose and say that I am a Professional Land Surveyor as prescribed by Utah State
Law and that I hold certificate no. 5152671.  I further state that the property described above was
surveyed under my direct supervision and the results of that survey are depicted hereon.
VICINITY MAP
WEBER CANYON RD
MOUNTAIN VALLEY
RANCH RD
MOUNTAIN
SIDE
RIVER VU RD
SITE
BROWN STEVEN FLOYD
HL-54
PETERSEN CAROL J
HL-57
ASPEN LOOP
HIDDEN LAKE ASSOCIATION
CD-393-A
BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT
SOUTH   59.962'
P.O.B.
AS-SURVEYED
BASIS OF BEARING
S89°20'52"W   2425.51' (MON TO MON)
WEST QUARTER CORNER
SECTION 6, T1S, R7E, SLB&M
FOUND - US CADADSTRAL SURVEY MON
PARCEL 1 (Entry # 01049400):
LOT 55, HIDDEN LAKE RANCH, ACCORDING TO THE OFFICIAL PLAT THEREOF ON FILE AND OF
RECORD IN THE SUMMIT COUNTY RECORDER'S OFFICE, ALSO BEING HISTORICALLY
DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:
BEGINNING AT A POINT WEST 441.75 FEET FROM THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF THE
SOUTHEAST 1/4 OF THE NORTHWEST 1/4 QUARTER OF SECTION 6, TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH,
RANGE 7 EAST, SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN; AND RUNNING THENCE NORTH 0°10' WEST
14.28 FEET; THENCE NORTH 87°50' WEST 124.54 FEET; THENCE SOUTH 118.98; THENCE EAST
124.45 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.
ALSO AND TOGETHER WITH THE FOLLOWING TRACT OF LAND:
PARCEL 2 (Entry # 01068087):
A PARCEL OF THE LOCATION IN THE NE 1/4 OF THE SW 1/4 OF SEC 6, TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH,
RANGE 7 EAST, SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN, SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH. SAID PARCEL IS
MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:
BEGINNING AT A POINT THAT IS S 89°20'52" W 536.70 FT ALONG THE SECTION LINE AND S
1°06'55" E 59.96 FT FROM THE CENTER OF SECTION 6, TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 7 EAST,
SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN.
THENCE N 89°20'52" E 124.46 FT;
THENCE N 01°07'55" W 59.96 FT;
THENCE S 89°20'52" W 124.44 FT;
THENCE S 01°06'55" E 59.96 FT TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.
ALSO AND TOGETHER WITH THE FOLLOWING TRACT OF LAND:
PARCEL 3 (Entry # 00905933):
LOT 56, HIDDEN LAKE SUBDIVISION
ALSO AND TOGETHER WITH THE FOLLOWING TRACT OF LAND:
PARCEL 4 (Entry # 00913045):
BEGINNING AT A POINT THAT IS N 89°32'14" W 536.70 FT ALONG THE SECTION LINE AND
SOUTH 42.51 FT FROM THE CENTER OF SECTION 6, TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 7 EAST,
SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN.
THENCE WEST 124.45 FT;
THENCE SOUTH 16.44 FT;
THENCE S 89°32'14" E 124.45 FT;
THENCE NORTH 17.45 FT TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.
AS-PROVIDED DEED DESCRIPTION
P.O.B.
PARCEL 1
AS-SURVEYED TIE 411.077'PARCEL 1 TIE 412.26' (MEAS)
PARCEL 2 TIE 536.70' (MEAS/REC)
PARCEL 3 TIE 536.70' (MEAS)
PARCEL 4 TIE 536.70' (MEAS)(N89°32'14"W  536.70' REC)
P.O.B.
PARCEL 2
P.O.B.
PARCEL 3 & 4
DAVIS MIKE
HL-66
DAVIS HARRY MICHAEL
HL-70
HARWARD MAX BRIANT
PERSONAL REP
HL-71-A
JENSEN ARDELL PAUL TRUSTEE
HL-72-73
47
48
MINUTES
SUMMIT COUNTY
Eastern Summit County Planning Commission
SUMMIT COUNTY SERVICES BUILDING-AUDITORIUM
110 NORTH MAIN STREET, KAMAS, UTAH, 84036
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2025
Meeting also conducted via Zoom.
AMENDED
Bill Wilde
David Darcey
Don Sargent
Marion Wheaton
Bridget Hayes
Seth Bowen
Peter Barnes
Helen Strachan
Amir Caus
Ray Milliner
Melissa Mendez
Brian Craven
Regular Session (6:00 PM)
1) Pledge of Allegiance (6:00 PM)
2) Public comments for items not on the agenda or pending
applications. (6:01 PM)
Commission Vice Chair Wheaton opened the public comment at 6:01 PM.
No members of the public came forward to speak.
Commission Vice Chair Wheaton closed the public comment at 6:01 PM.
3) Public hearing and action regarding a Conditional Use Permit
Amendment to expand the Soil Processing facility and add a
Contractor's Yard, located off Painted Valley Pass, Promontory,
Summit County, UT; Parcel SS-67-12; Applicant: Patino Trucking
and Excavating LLC (Maximiliano Patino); Administrative Process.
Project #24-024. Amir Caus, AICP, Senior Planner. (6:02 PM)
Attachment: Cover Page
49
Attachment: Patino Trucking and Exc. LLC CUP Amendment Staff
Report - November 6, 2025.pdf
Planner Amir Caus, AICP, Senior Planner, presented a Conditional Use
Permit Amendment for Parcel SS-67-12. Project #24-024. (6:02 PM)
Commissioners commented and inquired about operational hours,
changes in acreage, lighting conditions, road maintenance, access
regulations for tenants, snow management, and any compliance issues,
including property violations and adherence to pad area slope
requirements. Planner Caus and Maximiliano Patino, Rosalio Patino,
and Kandilee Sauter responded. (6:06 PM)
Commission Vice Chair Wheaton opened the public hearing at 6:13 PM.
No members of the public came forward to speak.
Commission Vice Chair Wheaton closed the public hearing at 6:13 PM.
Don Sargent made a motion to approve the Conditional Use Permit
Amendment for the Patino Trucking and Excavating LLC per
the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Conditions stated in
the staff report. (6:14 PM). David Darcey seconded, and all voted in
favor, (6-0). Absent: Alex Peterson.
Work Session (6:15 PM)
1) Discussion/Training - Review of Planning Commission Bylaws. Ray
Milliner, Principal Planner. (6:15 PM)
Attachment: Cover Page
Planner Ray Milliner presented a discussion/training- Review of
Planning Commission Powers, Duties, and Bylaws. (6:15 PM)
The commissioners shared their comments and raised questions about
the Powers, Duties, and Bylaws. There was an extensive discussion
regarding the disclosure requirements for conversations between
members of the public and commissioners, as well as discussions
among commissioners themselves. It was emphasized that any biases
must be disclosed. Additionally, commissioners sought clarification on
the requirements for the continuation of a public meeting. Can the
Commissioners change procedures? Asked for clarification on the
membership of the Commission. Planner Milliner, Civil Attorney Helen
Strachan and Community Development Director, Peter Barnes
responded. (6:24 PM)
Commission Items (6:46 PM)
A Commissioner requested an update on the Cedar Crest Village Plan. Director
Barnes responded. (6:48 PM)
Director Items (6:48 PM)
50
Community Development Director Peter Barnes updated the Commissioners
on upcoming agenda items and training. (6:48 PM)
Adjournment (6:49 PM)
David Darcey made a motion to adjourn. All voted in favor, (6-0). Absent:
Alex Peterson.
Meeting minutes and recordings appear at summitcountyutah.gov/meetings. When in
the electronic version of the minutes, clicking on the hyperlinked times takes you to
that spot in the meeting recording.
51
MINUTES
SUMMIT COUNTY
Eastern Summit County Planning Commission
SUMMIT COUNTY COURTHOUSE
60 NORTH MAIN STREET, COALVILLE, UT, 84017
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 18, 2025
Meeting also conducted via Zoom.
Draft
Bill Wilde
David Darcey
Marion Wheaton
Alex Peterson
Seth Bowen
Helen Strachan
Peter Barnes
Amir Caus
Mustapha Osman
Melissa Mendez
Brian Craven
Welcome/Attendance (6:00 PM)
Regular Session (6:00 PM)
1) Public comments for items not on the agenda or pending
applications. (6:00 PM)
Attachment: Cover Page
Commission Chair Alex Peterson opened the meeting for public input.
(6:00 PM)
No one appeared to comment.
Commission Chair Alex Peterson closed the meeting for public input.
2) Public hearing and action regarding a Plat Amendment in the
Wilderness Acres #20 and #15 Subdivision; 4363 Highline Rd &
4518 Alpine Circle; Parcel WA-20-39 & WA-15-5; Applicant: Lynn D.
Poll; Owner(s): Lynn D. Poll & Kathleen B. Poll; Administrative
52
Process. Project #25-142. Mustapha Osman, County Planner. (6:01
PM)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Staff Report 25-142.pdf
Attachment: Planners Public Comments Project 25-142
Planner Mustapha Osman presented a Plat Amendment in the
Wilderness Acres #20 and #15 Subdivision. Project # 25-142. (6:02 PM)
Commissioners asked about comments the Planner received before the
meeting and clarified whether the request is a simple lot-line adjustment.
Planner Osman and Applicant Stephanie Poll responded. (6:04 PM)
Commission Chair Alex Peterson opened the meeting for a public
hearing. (6:12 PM)
No one appeared to comment.
Commission Chair Alex Peterson closed the meeting for a public
hearing.
Marion Wheaton made a motion to approve to amend the
Wilderness Acres lots #15 and #20 Subdivision to vacate
approximately two acres on WA 15-5 and add it to WA 20-39
according to the findings of fact, conclusions of law, and
conditions of approval. (6:13 PM). Seth Bowen seconded, and all
voted in favor, (5-0). Absent: Don Sargent, Bridget Hayes.
3) Public hearing and action regarding a Preliminary Plat to allocate
one additional lot into the Rees Mountain Subdivision, located at
1300 W Hobson Ln, Hoytsville, Summit County, Utah; Parcels
RMTN-1 (6 acres) and RMTN-A (24 acres); Applicant: Kathy
Kercher; Administrative Process. Project #25-190. Amir Caus, AICP,
Senior Planner. (6:15 PM)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Rees Mountain Subdivision 2 Preliminary Plat Staff
Report.pdf
Senior Planner Amir Caus presented a Preliminary Plat to allocate into
the Rees Mountain Subdivision. Project #25-190. (6:15 PM)
Commissioner Darcey asked about driveway size and access. Planner
Caus responded. (6:16 PM)
Commission Chair Alex Peterson opened the meeting for a public
hearing. (6:20 PM)
Tim Rees appeared to speak. (6:21 PM)
Commission Chair Alex Peterson closed the meeting for a public
hearing. (6:22 PM)
53
Bill Wilde made a motion to approve the Rees Mountain
Subdivision, according to the findings of fact, conclusions of law,
and conditions of approval. (6:23 PM). David Darcey seconded, and
all voted in favor, (5-0). Absent: Don Sargent, Bridget Hayes.
Director Items (6:23 PM)
Planner Caus thanked the Commissioners for their service and updated them
on upcoming agenda items. (6:24 PM)
Regular Session Continued (6:24 PM)
4) Approval of Minutes: October 16, 2025, November 6, 2025, and
November 20, 2025. (6:24 PM)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Draft ESCPC Minutes 10.16.25.pdf
Attachment: Draft ESCPC Minutes 11.06.25.pdf
Attachment: Draft ESCPC Minutes 11.20.25.pdf
David Darcey made a motion to approve the Minutes for October
16, 2025, the Minutes for November 6, 2025, and the Minutes for
November 20, 2025. (6:25 PM). Marion Wheaton seconded, and all
voted in favor, (5-0). Absent: Don Sargent, Bridget Hayes.
Commission Items (6:25 PM)
Chair Peterson thanked the Commissioners and staff. Commissioner Wilde
inquired about the end date of his term, noting he has completed his service.
He also thanked the ESCPC Commissioners and Staff. (6:27 PM)
Adjournment (6:28 PM)
Marion Wheaton made a motion to adjourn. David Darcey seconded.
Meeting minutes and recordings appear at summitcountyutah.gov/meetings. When in
the electronic version of the minutes, clicking on the hyperlinked times takes you to
that spot in the meeting recording.
54