1.
**Election of Chair and Vice-Chair.**
2.
**Public comments for items not on the agenda or pending applications.**
3.
Public hearing and possible action regarding a Conditional Use Permit for a
Contractor's Yard; 2055 W State Rd 32, Francis, Summit County, Utah; Parcels CD-
2061, CD-2061-A, CD-2061-A-LLA. Applicant: Mike Leavitt, MC Contractors Inc.
Owner: Leavco LLC. Administrative Review. Project # 25-186.
Amanda Curtis, County Planner.
4.
Approval of Minutes: March 5, 2026. 
1.
Work Session Discussion of proposed amendment to the Eastern Summit County
Development Code to create the Lost Creek Community Zone. The purpose of the
zone is to create language that would enable development in the Brown's Canyon
area. Garff Rogers Ranch LLC owner, Ivory Development Representative.
Legislative Process. 
Ray Milliner, Principal Planner.
  
**AMENDED** 
AGENDA 
EASTERN SUMMIT COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION 
Thursday, April 
2, 2026
NOTICE is hereby given that the Eastern Summit County Planning Commission will meet
electronically, via Zoom, and at the anchor location of Summit County Services Building -
Auditorium
110 North Main Street, Kamas, Utah 84036
(All times listed are general in nature, and are subject to change by the Board Chair)
 
You may attend in person or
 
Join Zoom webinar:
https://summitcountyut.zoom.us/j/99249026124
OR 
To listen by phone only: Dial 1-301-715-8592, 
or 1-253-215-8782, Webinar ID: 992 4902 6124
 
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
 
 
 
25-186 Staff Report.pdf
 
Draft ESCPC Minutes 3.5.26.pdf
Work Session
 
Work Session Report April 2, 2026.pdf
Commission Items
Director Items
Adjourn
To view staff reports available at the end of the Friday before the meeting please visit
www.summitcounty.org.
Individuals needing special accommodations pursuant to the Americans with Disabilities Act regarding this
1
meeting may contact Vicki Geary, Summit County Community Development Department at (435) 336-3123.
2
 Community Development Department 
P.O. Box 128 
60 North Main Street 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
summitcounty.org 
 
  
 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
To:   Eastern Summit County Planning Commission   
From:   Amanda Curtis 
Date of Meeting: April 2, 2026  
Type of Item:  Conditional Use Permit - Public Hearing, Possible Action 
Process:  Administrative Review 
File #:   25-186 
 
 
Proposal 
The applicant, Mike Leavitt of Leavco LLC, is requesting a Conditional Use Permit for a 
Contractor’s Yard on lots CD-2061, CD-2061-A-LLA and CD-2061-A off of SR-32 just outside of 
Francis City Limits. The proposed use is for storage and staging of construction-related 
equipment, materials, and trailers. There will be 2-3 employees parking on site and present 
during operating hours from 7:00 am to 7:00 pm Monday through Saturday. 
 
These parcels have been used as a Contractor’s Yard for some time. This application aims to 
bring the use into compliance. 
 
The yard is covered with gravel and roto mill, thus precluding the generation of harmful levels 
of dust. In response to Service Provider comments, the applicant has planned to hold its 100-
year storm for Pre and Post Construction totally onsite with a retention basin and drainage 
swale in order to mitigate potential stormwater runoff. 
 
Project Description 
Project Name: MC Contractor’s Yard   
Applicant(s): Mike Leavitt    
Property Owner(s): Leavco LLC  
Location: 2055 W State Rd 32  
Zone District: AG-10     
Parcel Number: CD-2061, CD-2061-A-LLA, and CD-2061-A   
Type of Process: Administrative   
Final Land Use Authority: Eastern Summit County Planning Commission  
 
 
 
 
3
2 
 
Vicinity Map 
 
 
Background 
Section 11-3-16 of the Eastern Summit County Development Code contains the Chart of 
Allowed and Permitted uses. In the Ag-10 zone, a Contractor’s Yard requires a Conditional Use 
Permit subject to review and approval by the Planning Commission. The Applicant applied for a 
Conditional Use Permit on October 10, 2025. The code defines the proposed use as: 
 
CONTRACTOR'S YARD: Any land or buildings used primarily for the storage of 
equipment, vehicles, machinery (new or used), building materials, paints, pipe, or 
electrical components used by the owner or occupant of the premises in the conduct of 
any building trades or building craft. 
 
The lots do not contain any structures. The proposal does not include any structures or lighting. 
The use of the property is strictly to store excavators, loaders, trucks, utility trailers, and job-
related supplies. No part of the proposed use will be open to the public and there will be a sight 
obscuring fence surrounding the entirety of the property. 
 
Staff and service providers have reviewed the Conditional Use Permit and based on changes 
that were made to address service provider comments, the application as conditioned complies 
with all applicable standards. 
 
Analysis and Findings 
Chapter 3 - Zone District Requirements 
The subject property is located in the AG-10 zone district.  
 
Code Requirement Analysis Finding 
Setbacks 
Front = 25’ 
Side = 12’ 
 
Front = 25’  
Side = 12’ 
COMPLIES 
4
3 
 
Rear = 12’ Rear =  12’ 
Height 
The maximum height allowed is 32’ from 
existing or finished grade, whichever 
results in a greater measurement.  
N/A 
 
COMPLIES 
 
Section 11-4-2: Lot/Parcel Requirements for Development, Subdivision, and/or Uses 
For development purposes and in order to apply for development, a parcel must be a 
conforming parcel. COMPLIES 
 
 Analysis: In 2005, Summit County issued a determination letter that stated that CD-
2061 was a “Lot of Record”. CD-2061-A described two separate parcels and was therefore 
considered two Lots of Record. The documents used in arriving at this conclusion are Book M20 
Page 513-514. In 2020, the previous owners did a Lot Line Adjustment to confirm the Lot of 
Record status for CD-2061-A (B: 2596 P: 0735) and in 2024 there was an official Boundary Line 
Adjustment that created CD-2061-A-LLA (B: 2813 P:0611). Therefore, all three parcels are 
considered conforming parcels. 
 
Section 11-4-7: Conditional Use Permit (CUP) Criteria for Approval 
No CUP shall be approved unless the applicant demonstrates that: 
 
Standard 1: The proposed use, as conditioned, shall be appropriate in the particular location, 
taking into account the nature of the use, its relationship to surrounding uses, and its impact on 
the natural environment. COMPLIES AS CONDITIONED 
  
Analysis: The Contractor’s Yard is in proximity to another Contractor’s Yard directly 
across the road, also owned by Leavco LLC. That use was permitted by Francis City in 
2019. There is a maintenance shop at this location and all maintenance, washing and 
fueling will occur at that location. There are no homes near this location, the closest 
structure is over 1,000 ft away. DEQ and Stormwater have reviewed the application and  
there are no concerns with proposed impact. The Conditions of Approval indicate that 
there will be no storage of hazardous materials, no unscreened material storage, and no 
fuel storage. Additionally, no lighting is proposed and there is a proposed fence 
screening the entirety of the property.  
 
Standard 2: The proposed use, as conditioned, shall be in compliance with the development 
evaluation standards in chapter 2 of the Code. COMPLIES 
 
Analysis: Please see the table below. 
 
Code Requirement Analysis Finding 
Agriculture   
5
4 
Non-agricultural development shall not be 
approved without appropriate plat notes. 
The use will not hinder nor 
eliminate any existing 
agricultural operations in 
the area.  
COMPLIES 
New nonagricultural development within 
Eastern Summit County shall preserve 
productive agricultural land to the extent 
possible and practical. 
The proposal is not in 
conflict with any productive 
agricultural land. 
COMPLIES 
Nonagricultural development shall 
preserve the integrity of existing irrigation 
patterns and systems. Surface irrigation 
ditches shall be mapped and easements of 
record created. 
There was a private ditch 
on the property that did not 
serve any downstream 
users. The ditch has been 
removed.  
COMPLIES 
Water and Sewage 
New development shall not be approved in 
accordance with the provisions of chapter 
4 of the Code, nor shall a building permit 
be issued on a previously platted lot, 
without a memorandum of decision from 
the State Engineer or a commitment from 
a private service company to provide 
water of adequate quantity and quality. 
This project does not 
contain any proposal for use 
of water. 
COMPLIES 
No development shall be approved 
without suitable sewage treatment 
capacity point of discharge, and 
dependability for the specific use 
proposed. 
This project does not 
contain any proposal for use 
of sewage. 
COMPLIES 
All developments either using public or 
private water systems shall be subject to 
providing: proof of water rights, wet 
water, or a statement from the State 
Engineer’s Office 
This project does not 
contain any proposal for use 
of water, therefore proof of 
water is not required. 
COMPLIES 
Natural Resources 
Development is prohibited on geologic 
hazard areas. 
The project location is not a 
geographic hazard area. 
COMPLIES 
Development shall not contribute to the 
acceleration of the erosion of soil and rock 
and stream sedimentation. 
The Storm Water Manager 
has reviewed the 
application and found that 
the project as proposed and 
conditioned meets this 
COMPLIES 
6
5 
 
requirement. 
Development shall minimize the highly 
visible placement of homes on hillsides. 
The proposal is not on a 
hillside. 
COMPLIES 
Development is discouraged in a 100-year 
floodplain. 
The Applicant has submitted 
a FEMA floodplain permit 
and has satisfied the 
requirements of the County 
Engineer who is the 
Floodplain Manager. 
COMPLIES 
No development is permitted in wetlands. There are no wetlands in 
the project area as 
delineated and confirmed 
by the Army Corps of 
Engineers.  
COMPLIES 
No development is permitted on slopes in 
excess of 30%. 
There are no steep slopes 
on the property. 
COMPLIES 
Care shall be taken to ensure that 
development shall not significantly affect 
in a negative fashion wildlife birthing 
areas, critical winter range areas and 
migration corridors. 
These parcels are not 
considered to be wildlife 
birthing areas or critical to 
winter range areas and 
migration corridors. 
COMPLIES 
Development shall not be placed on any 
hillside or ridgetop that causes a structure 
to extend into the skyline as viewed from 
public roadways. 
The project is not on a 
ridgeline. 
COMPLIES 
Development activity shall not cause run-
off characteristics of a parcel to be more 
disruptive to perennial, intermittent and 
ephemeral streams, land uses or drainage 
systems, than existed prior to the 
development activity.  
Summit County Stormwater 
Department reviewed the 
application and all 
comments have been 
addressed. 
COMPLIES 
Development shall not contribute 
significantly to the degradation of air 
quality in the County, including violation of 
any applicable State and/or Federal 
pollution control laws. 
The project will not 
significantly degrade air 
quality. 
COMPLIES 
Infrastructure/Facilities/ Services   
No development shall cause the traffic 
volume on any public road to fall below the 
design capacity of the roadway. 
The proposed project met 
the requirements from 
UDOT. The applicants have 
obtained a UDOT Permit for 
COMPLIES 
7
6 
 
the access entrance. 
Development that presents an unusual fire 
hazard which is beyond the capability of the 
fire district will not be approved. 
The proposal does not 
present an unusual fire 
hazard. The South Summit 
Fire District (SSFD) reviewed 
the proposal and had no 
comments. 
COMPLIES 
Development in remote locations that 
could affect emergency services will not be 
approved. 
The project location has 
access to emergency 
services. SSFD services the 
area. 
COMPLIES 
Residential development with private roads 
will not be approved if there is a locked 
gate at the entrance, unless emergency 
services have access to the property. 
The proposal does not 
include any new roads. 
COMPLIES 
 
 
 
Standard 3: The applicant shall present evidence to show approval of the landowner for the 
particular use, unless the land is owned by the applicant and, in such case, the applicant shall 
submit proof of ownership. COMPLIES 
 
Analysis: All three properties are owned by Leavco LLC. Mike Leavitt provided the Proof 
of Ownership document showing ownership of the LLC. 
 
Standard 4: There are reasonable conditions that can be imposed which mitigate the 
reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. REQUEST DISCUSSION 
   
Analysis: In addition to reviewing the proposal for compliance with Chapter 2 and 
Chapter 6, staff has routed the application to affected County Departments as well as 
State and Federal agencies where applicable.  
 
To keep in compliance with 11-3-13 – Annexation Declaration Area Overlay, the 
application was routed to Francis City for comments. Additionally, they were given 
written notice a minimum of 30 days prior to any scheduled public hearing.  
 
In accordance with the review procedure for ADA overlay area, the underlying Summit 
County zoning was used as a guide for determining use and density for the property. 
The County may impose certain other development standards beyond those suggested 
in Title 11 to ensure compliance with the standards and policies of the municipality and 
County for development in the ADA overlay area.  
 
8
7 
 
After communicating with Francis City, the conditions that were required for the 
Contractor’s Yard directly across the road were as follows: 
 
• Access off a major arterial road (SR 32 or SR 35). COMPLIES 
• Provide a sight-obscuring fence constructed to a height of at least eight feet on all 
surrounding property lines. COMPLIES 
• Provide off-street parking per FCC 18.100.100. COMPLIES 
• All storage facilities must meet setbacks of current property zones or uses they are 
adjacent to. Current use will supersede zoning. COMPLIES 
• Follow city noise ordinance. They will comply with the County Noise Ordinance 
COMPLIES AS CONDITIONED 
• Follow city commercial landscaping code. The County does not have a landscaping 
requirement. Additionally, the entire property will be screened by a fence. COMPLIES 
 
 
Based on comments from each of the service providers, staff created a list of Conditions 
of Approval for the project that would mitigate issues and problems raised. Staff 
requests that the Planning Commission discuss the proposal and Conditions of Approval 
and direct staff to create any further conditions necessary.  
 
 
Section 11-6-23: Contractor’s Yards  
The purpose of this Section is to set standards that will allow operation of Contractor's Yards in 
appropriate locations without causing serious detriment to the public health, safety, and 
welfare of Summit County residents. COMPLIES AS CONDITIONED 
 
Analysis: Please see table below.  
 
Code Requirement Analysis Finding 
Applicant shall submit a 
written narrative that clearly 
identifies the location of all 
structures, parking areas, and 
outdoor storage areas. 
Narrative attached as Exhibit 
A with edits made per email 
conversations with the 
Applicant and with DEQ. 
COMPLIES 
Maximum disturbance area of 
a Contractor’s Yard shall be 2 
acres.  
The total disturbance area is 
under 1 acre. 
COMPLIES 
The Contractor’s Yard shall be 
located a minimum distance 
of 300’ from any residence. 
The nearest home is 
approximately 1,000 feet 
away from the site. 
COMPLIES 
All outdoor storage and 
vehicle parking areas shall be 
screened from view from 
A 3.5ft jersey barrier with a 
6ft fence with privacy slats on 
top is proposed around the 
COMPLIES 
9
8 
 
adjacent properties. 
Appropriate screening may 
include fencing, berms, or 
vegetation. The 
Planning Commission shall 
determine the most 
appropriate screening 
material/method as part 
of the Conditional Use Permit. 
entirety of the three 
properties to screen all 
storage of equipment and 
material. 
The applicant shall submit a 
dust and erosion control plan 
that demonstrates no 
migration of soil beyond the 
subject property boundary, as 
well as mitigation to prevent 
vehicles from tracking mud 
onto the right-of-way. 
A vehicle tracking pad is 
proposed on the SWPPP page 
of Exhibit B. This has met the 
satisfaction of both UDOT and 
the Engineering Department.  
COMPLIES  
The applicant shall install an 
impervious pad with 
containment borders and a 
filtration system to address 
run off for the storage and 
maintenance of 
vehicles/equipment. 
A drainage channel with a 100 
year retention pond is 
proposed on the site. See the 
proposed grading sheet in 
Exhibit B sheet G for further 
details. A Condition of 
Approval has been added to 
ensure that it is built to 
properly filter run off from 
the vehicles.  
COMPLIES AS CONDITIONED 
The contractor's business 
office may be an accessory 
use to a Contractor's Yard. 
No office is being proposed at 
this time. 
COMPLIES 
All employee parking, 
including any ADA spaces, 
shall be onsite. 
Employee parking and 1 ADA 
spot are on site. 
COMPLIES 
Architectural and safety 
lighting compliant with 
Section 11-6-20 of this title is 
allowed. Parking lot lighting, 
and flood lighting are 
prohibited. 
No lighting is being proposed. COMPLIES AS CONDITIONED 
 
 
Public Notice, Meetings and Comments  
10
9 
 
This application was noticed as a public hearing with possible action by the ESCPC. It was 
published in the Park Record and physically posted. Postcards were mailed to nearby property 
owners within 1000’ of all affected property within the unincorporated County. As of the date 
this staff report was published, no public comment has been received. 
 
Recommendation 
Staff recommends that the ESCPC review the proposed  Conditional Use Permit, conduct a  
public hearing, and approve the  application, pursuant to the following Findings of Fact , 
Conclusions of Law, and Conditions of Approval. 
 
Findings of Fact: 
1.  On October 10, 2025, the Summit County Community Development Department 
received a complete application for a Conditional Use Permit (CUP). 
2. The property is owned by Leavco LLC. Mike Leavitt has provided proof of ownership of 
the LLC and signed the CUP application form. 
3. The property is identified as Parcels CD-2061, CD-2061-A, and CD-2061-A-LLA (1.17 
acres). 
4.  The properties are conforming parcels and are in the AG-10 Zone District. 
5. A Contractor’s Yard requires a Conditional Use Permit in the AG-10 zone. 
6. The purpose of this CUP is to allow a Contractor’s Yard to be located on the property for 
the purpose of storing equipment and materials. 
7. The proposed area of disturbance is 0.99 acres. 
8. There are no wetlands or natural streams on the property. 
9.  Floodplain permit has been obtained and reviewed for compliance with FEMA 
guidelines. 
10. No construction will take place on slopes over 30%. 
11. None of the development will break the ridgeline. 
12. The proposed development will not affect wildlife birthing areas, critical winter range or 
migration corridors. 
13.  The nearest home is approximately 1,000 feet away from the site. 
14. There will be no water, sewer or electrical hookups. 
15. The will be no structures or lighting on any of the properties.   
16. The project proposes appropriate drainage channels and a retention pond. 
17. A traction pad has been designed to retain all soil on site and prevent vehicles from 
tracking mud. 
18. An encroachment permit has been acquired from UDOT for access on to the property. 
19. All parking, including ADA spaces are on site and within the zone required setbacks. 
20. The project location has access to emergency services. The South Summit Fire District 
services the area. 
21. There are reasonable conditions that can be imposed to mitigate the anticipated 
negative impacts of the proposed use. 
11
10 
 
22. Staff and service providers have reviewed the project for compliance with all applicable 
standards. 
 
Conclusions of Law:  
1. The proposed use meets the requisite standards set forth in the Eastern Summit County 
Development Code, Section 11-4-8: Low Impact Permit. 
2. The proposed use meets the requisite standards set forth in the Eastern Summit County 
Development Code, Chapter 2: Development Evaluation Standards. 
3. The proposed use, as conditioned, is consistent with the goals and policies of the 
General Plan. 
4. The proposed, as conditioned, use complies with all State and Federal regulations. 
5. The proposed, as conditioned, use is not detrimental to public health, safety, and 
welfare. 
6. The proposed use, as conditioned, is appropriately located with respect to public 
facilities and services. 
7. The proposed use, as conditioned, will preserve the natural topography, ridgelines, soils, 
critical areas, watercourses and vegetation through careful site planning. 
 
Conditions of Approval: 
1. There may be no modification to this Conditional Use Permit without prior approval 
from the Community Development Department.   
2.  The proposed use shall be constructed in accordance with Exhibit B of this Staff Report. 
3. The proposed use shall not include retail sales and is for the private use of the Applicant.  
4. All outdoor storage of equipment and materials shall be screened with the proposed 
fence as shown in Exhibit B. 
5.  No disposal of construction waste of vegetation is permitted. 
6. No burning of vegetation from construction sites or construction waste is allowed on 
site. 
7.  No storage of hazardous materials (gas, oil, etc.) exceeding levels established in Table 
307.1(1) of the International Building Code is allowed. 
8.  Under no circumstances shall the applicant bring contaminated soil or materials onto 
the site for any reason. 
9. All vehicles must be parked on site and within the setback area. 
10. The use of a Contractor's Yard as a repository for excess soils or materials from other 
work sites, whether they be from the applicant or from other contractors is strictly 
prohibited. 
11.  Excavation and mining is not permitted. 
12.  The amount of disturbance allowed for the Contractor’s Yard shall be limited to the 
disturbance as shown on the approved site plan (0.99 acres). Any expansion beyond that 
area shall require review and approval by the Planning Commission and appropriate 
permits from Stormwater and Department of Environmental Quality. 
12
11 
 
13.  Vehicle/equipment maintenance, washing or fueling is not approved until such time as a 
Industrial Stormwater Permit is acquired. This would involve amending this Conditional 
Use Permit.  
14. The applicant shall install an impervious pad with containment borders and a 
filtration system to address run off for the storage of vehicles/equipment. 
15. Any future lighting shall comply with the Eastern Summit County Development Code 
lighting standards as found in Section 11-6-20. Any proposed lighting will require 
amending this CUP and getting a building permit. 
16. Install a construction fence along the setback lines to ensure that there isn’t any storage 
within the setback areas. 
17. Follow the noise ordinance of Summit County as found in Title 5 Chapter 3 of the 
Summit County Code.  
18. All necessary approvals and permits must be obtained, and fees paid, prior to any 
construction activity including but not limited to the Health Department, South Summit 
Fire Department, Engineer, Building and County Planning Departments. 
19. This Conditional Use Permit shall expire one year from the date of approval unless the 
conditional use permit activity has begun, or an extension is requested in writing by the 
applicant and granted by the Community Development Director. 
 
Attachments  
Exhibit A –Narrative 
Exhibit B – Site Plan 
 
13
Contractor Yard Description 
The contractor yard will be used for the storage and staging of construction-related 
equipment, materials, and trailers. Typical items stored on-site include excavators, 
loaders, trucks, utility trailers, and job-related supplies. The yard will be enclosed with a 6-
foot, non-transparent fence (shown in blue on the plan) to provide full visual screening 
and ensure site security. 
Hours of operation will generally be from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m., Monday through 
Saturday, with 2–3 employees typically present during operating hours. 
No fuel, oil, or hazardous materials will be stored on-site. Any required equipment 
maintenance or refueling will occur off-site or be performed by a licensed vendor in 
accordance with all applicable regulations. 
This location will primarily serve as overflow storage for tractors and heavy 
equipment from the company’s main yard. 
A detailed site plan is included with this submittal: 
• Orange dots represent light fixture locations.
• Red areas represent designated snow storage zones. 
• Blue lines represent the fence line. 
• Pink lines represent existing or proposed contours. 
Lighting will consist of downward-facing LED fixtures providing low-level illumination for 
safety and security. Lights will operate on timers or motion sensors to minimize energy 
use and prevent unnecessary light spillover. 
The yard will remain clean, organized, and professionally maintained at all times. 
Commented [AC1]: Absolutely no vehicle/equipment 
maintenance,  washing or fueling on this site unless an 
Industrial Stormwater Permit is obtained per email from 
Jordan Bryant with DEQ on 2/23/26. 
Commented [AC2]: Per email on 11/20/2025, Mike 
Leavitt eliminated the lighting 
Exhibit A
14
Exhibit B
15
16
N 85°31'15" WS 82°06'01" W 24.13'
Sewer Lift Station
N 83°57'52" W
94.46'
N 83°46'35" W
21.76'
Southerly Right of Way Fence, "Old County Road"
CD-2066-C
VICTORY RANCH LC
Southeast Corner
Section 30
T2S, R6E, SLB&M
Pipe and Cap by
Original Stone
304.66'
See Survey S-3392
Approximate Centerline "Old County Road"
•=06°37'27"
R=2814.79'
L=325.43'
LC=325.24'
LCB=N 71°37'26" EExisting Rebar &
3" Aluminum Cap
"Cornerstone"
LS #7600
S 88°11'16" W
28.38'
41.85'
C
N 88°17'15" W
113.36'
N 86°05'57" W
47.57'
Driveway
Entrance
•=02°28'26"
R=2814.79'
L=121.53'
LC=121.52'
LCB=N 76°10'22" E
Existing Ditch
N 85°14'20" W
56.63'
41.60'
Parcel C
CD-2061
0.37 acres
16324 sq ft
North
109.57'
76.78'
North
148.06'
Parcel B
CD-2061-A
0.35 acres
15261 sq ft
CD-2058
WRIGHT
SR 32 5/8" Rebar & Cap
"High Mountain"
L.S. 368358
Basis of Bearing
Parcel A
CD-2061-A
0.45 acres
19588 sq ft
183.60'Meas. 5318.76'
•=02°27'01"
R=2814.79'
L=120.37'
LC=120.36'
LCB=N 78°38'05" E
Gate
South
Section Line
Northeast Corner
Section 30
T2S, R6E, SLB&M
(P.K. Nail in Asphalt)
FT-2061-B
THOMPSON
30 0 30 60
1 Inch = 30 Feet
GRAPHIC SCALE
LEGEND
Set Rebar and Cap
Stamped "HMS" 
LS. 368358
Rebar and Cap
Set for prior survey
S-6470 (See Narrative)
Rebar and Cap
Stamped "Cornerstone"
LS. 7600
Overhead Power
Existing Fence
C
SURVEYED BY:
1.At the request of Mr. Ray Alt, we are updating a prior survey (S-6470, dated 5/11/074) to reflect and include land vacated 
in County Ordinance #745, found in Book 2045, Page 1245 in the office of the Summit County Recorder. The Parcels of this 
survey are CD-2061 and CD-2061-A, located in the Southeast Quarter of Section 30, Township 2 South, Range 6 East, 
SLB&M.
2.  The above mentioned property is bound on the north by Highway Project #S-240 (SR 32).  Said property is bound on the 
East by the East Line of Section 30, T2S, R6E, SLB&M.  Said property is bound to the South by the land described in said 
Ordinance 745.
3.  A prior survey performed by Cornerstone Professional Land Surveys was used to determine the centerline of the "Old 
State Road" and is filed at Summit County as Survey No. S-3392.
4.  Additional information used in performing this survey include the following Deeds:  Book M20, Page 513; Book M20, 
Page 514; Book M20 Page 512 which documents are the current vesting deeds of Parcels CD-2061 and CD-2061-A.
5.  Ray Alt and Petricia Standing petitioned Summit County to vacate that portion of a public road that was situated within 
their occupation lines of Parcels CD-2061 And CD-2061-A. See Ordinance 745, Book 2045, Page 245. This map reflects the 
intent expressed by Alt and Standing, per the hearing held by Summit County that he vacated lands were intended to be 
absorbed into the parcels owned by Alt and reflect their occupation. 
A tract of land located in the Southeast Quarter of Section 30, Township 2 South, Range 6 East, Salt Lake Base and 
Meridian and having a Basis of Bearing taken as North between the Southeast Corner and Northeast Corner of said Section 
30 described as follows:
Beginning at a point that is North 325.92 feet and West 236.00 feet from the Southeast Corner of Section 30, T2S, R6E, 
SLB&M said point being on an existing line of fence marking the southerly line of the "Old State Road" which in some 
documents is referred to as the "Old County Road" and running thence North 85°14'20" West 56.63 Feet along said fence;  
the next (5) courses are along said fence, thence North 83°46'35" West 21.76 Feet; thence North 86°05'57" West 47.57 Feet; 
thence North 88°17'15" West 113.36 Feet; thence South 82°06'01" West 41.85 Feet; thence South 88°11'16" West 28.38 
Feet to a point on the southerly right of way line of SR 32; thence 325.43 feet along the arc of a 2814.79 foot radius curve to 
the right, Long Chord Bears North 71° 37' 26" East, 325.24' along said right of way line; thence South 109.57 Feet to the 
POINT OF BEGINNING; said described tract containing 0.37 Acres, more or less.
NARRATIVE
Parcel C
CD-2061
Prepared For:  Ray Alt
Survey of Parcels CD-2061 & CD-2061-A
Part of the SE 1/4 of Section 30, T2S, R6E, SLB&M
Francis, Summit County, Utah
RECORD OF SURVEY
DATE:
PCS FILE:
Surveyor Certificate
I Paul Ferry, a Licensed Professional Land Surveyor as prescribed by the Laws of the State of Utah and holding License 
No. 368358, do hereby certify that I have made a survey, or a field survey was made under my direction of the described 
property and that the plat hereon is a true and correct representation of said survey.
SURVEY DESCRIPTIONS
Parcel B
CD-2061-A
Parcel A
CD-2061-A
A tract of land located in the Southeast Quarter of Section 30, Township 2 South, Range 6 East, Salt Lake Base and 
Meridian and having a Basis of Bearing taken as North between the Southeast Corner and Northeast Corner of said Section 
30 described as follows:
Beginning at a point that is North 316.47 feet and West 118.00 feet from the Southeast Corner of Section 30, T2S, R6E, 
SLB&M, said point being on the southerly fence line of the "Old State Road" which in some documents is referred to as the 
"Old County Road" and running thence North 85° 31' 15" West 76.78 feet along said fence; thence North 85°14'20" West 
41.60 feet along said fence; thence North 109.57 feet to a point on the southerly right of way line of SR 32; thence 121.53 
feet along the arc of a 2814.79 foot radius curve to the right, Long Chord Bears North 76° 10' 22" East, 121.52' along said 
right of way line; thence South 148.06 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING; said described tract containing 0.35 Acres, 
more or less.
A tract of land located in the Southeast Quarter of Section 30, Township 2 South, Range 6 East, Salt Lake Base and 
Meridian and having a Basis of Bearing taken as North between the Southeast Corner and Northeast Corner of said 
Section 30 described as follows:
Beginning at a point on an existing line of fence; said point being the intersection of the East boundary line of Section 30, 
T2S, R6E, SLB&M and the southerly fence line of the "Old State Road" which in some documents is referred to as the 
"Old County Road" and being located 304.66 feet North along the section line from the Southeast Corner of said Section 
30 and running thence North 83°57'52" West  94.46 feet an existing line of fence; thence North 85°31'15" West  24.13 
feet along said fence; thence North 148.06 feet to a point on the southerly right of way line of SR 32; thence 120.37 feet 
along the arc of a 2814.79 Foot radius curve to the right, Long Chord Bearing North 78° 38' 05" East, 120.36' more or less 
to a point on the section line; thence South 183.60 feet along the section line to the POINT OF BEGINNING; said 
described tract containing 0.45 Acres, more or less.
PROJECT NO:
DRAWN BY:
COMMENTS:
SHEET 1 OF 1
P.O. Box 445
1325 South Hoytsville Road
Coalville, Utah 84017
(435) 336-4210
SURVEYING, LLC
HIGH MOUNTAINJuly 16, 2020
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
MINUTES
SUMMIT COUNTY
Eastern Summit County Planning Commission
SUMMIT COUNTY SERVICES BUILDING-AUDITORIUM
110 NORTH MAIN STREET, KAMAS, UTAH, 84036
THURSDAY, MARCH 5, 2026
Meeting also conducted via Zoom.
Draft
David Darcey
Don Sargent
Alex Peterson
Bridget Hayes
Seth Bowen
Welcome/Attendance (6:08 PM)
Regular Session (6:08 PM)
1) Pledge of Allegiance. (6:08 PM)
2) Public comments for items not on the agenda or pending
applications. (6:09 PM)
Commission Chair Alex Peterson opened the meeting for public input.
(6:09 PM)
No one appeared to comment.
Commission Chair Alex Peterson closed the meeting for public input.
3) Public hearing and action regarding a Plat Amendment in the
Weber Bend Ranch Subdivision; 871 S West Hoytsville Rd; Parcel
WBR-5; Applicant: Wade Wilde; Owner(s): Jackson Land &
Livestock LLC; Administrative Process. Project #25-115.
Laura Kuhrmeyer, County Planner; Mustapha Osman, County
Planner. (6:09 PM)
26
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Staff Report 25-115.pdf
Planner Laura Kuhrmeyer and Planner Mustapha Osman presented a
Plat Amendment in the Weber Bend Ranch Subdivision. Project #25-
115. Owner Wade Wilde joined in to support the presentation. (6:10 PM)
Commissioners commented and asked questions, clarifying that the
commission would be amending the subdivision’s boundary. Planners
Kuhrmeyer and Osman responded. (6:11 PM)
Commission Chair Alex Peterson opened the meeting for a public
hearing. (6:13 PM)
No one appeared to comment.
Commission Chair Alex Peterson closed the meeting for a public
hearing.
Bridget Hayes made a motion to approve the Plat Amendment in
the Weber Bend Ranch Subdivision Parcel WBR-5 as outlined in
the staff packet pursuant to the following findings of fact,
conclusions of law, and conditions of approval. (6:13 PM). Seth
Bowen seconded, and all voted in favor, (5-0). Absent: Bill Wilde,
Marion Wheaton.
3) Approval of Minutes: February 5, 2026, February 19, 2026. (6:14
PM)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Draft ESCPC Minutes 2.5.26.pdf
Attachment: Draft ESCPC Minutes 2.19.26.pdf
David Darcey made a motion to approve the Minutes as presented
for Thursday, February 5, 2026. (6:14 PM). Seth Bowen seconded,
and all voted in favor, (3-0). Absent: Bill Wilde, Marion Wheaton.
Abstain: Don Sargent, Alex Peterson.
David Darcey made a motion to approve the Minutes dated
February 19, 2026, as presented. (6:15 PM). Bridget Hayes
seconded, and all voted in favor, (5-0). 
Work Session (6:16 PM)
1) Work session discussion of Chapter 1: Introduction, Chapter 2:
Land Use, Chapter 3: Housing, and Chapter 4: Transportation and
Connectivity of the Eastern Summit County General Plan.
Legislative Process. Ray Milliner, Principal Planner, Mustapha
Osman County Planner. (6:16 PM)
Attachment: Cover Page
27
Attachment: Work Session Chapter 3 and 4 March 5, 2026.pdf
Planner Ray Milliner introduced Paul Weller as a new member of the
Eastern Summit Planning Commission. (6:16 PM)
Paul Weller came forward to speak. (6:18 PM)
Planner Ray Milliner and Planner Mustapha Osman presented Chapters
1: Introduction and Chapter 2: Land Use of the Eastern Summit County
General Plan for discussion and proposed changes by the
Commissioners. (6:16 PM)
Commissioners posed questions and provided feedback on the
proposed Chapter 2 boundaries. The discussion addressed preventing
suburban sprawl, establishing clear guidelines for the village overlay,
defining a village, and assessing growth capacity. Additional topics
included density limits, the specificity of guidelines for each
development, and the role of the open space code in increasing open
areas. Commissioners also examined the definition of a small rural
town, zoning specifics, and acreage requirements for achieving target
densities. Policies related to maintaining open and connected
agricultural spaces were reviewed. For Chapter 3, the Commissioners
recommended removing the first four words of the initial sentence and
emphasized integrating moderately priced housing with market-rate
housing. They noted that some policies lacked implementation
strategies and considered developing new ones, particularly for
moderate- and workforce-housing across all development types. In
Chapter 4, the discussion included transportation alternatives such as
bike lanes and sidewalks, infrastructure preservation, and balanced
land-use planning to maintain a small-town character. Concerns were
raised about the infrastructure’s ability to support large developments
and the potential impact of constructing wide roads. The group also
discussed the Woodland to Wanship corridor, the importance of
maintaining development convenience while preserving community
character, opportunities for agency partnerships, and whether limited
access from I-80 should preclude new development. Planner Millner,
Planner Osman, and Community Development Director Peter Barnes
responded to Commissioners throughout the discussion.(6:07 PM)
Commission Items
No commission items were brought forward. (7:23 PM)
Director Items
Planner Ray Milliner provided an update to the Commissioners regarding the
State Legislature and the upcoming agenda. (7:23 PM)
Adjournment (7:23 PM)
David Darcey made a motion to adjourn.The motion did not receive a
second.
28
Meeting minutes and recordings appear at summitcountyutah.gov/meetings. When in
the electronic version of the minutes, clicking on the hyperlinked times takes you to
that spot in the meeting recording.
29
 Community Development Department 
P.O. Box 128 
60 North Main Street 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
summitcounty.org 
 
  
 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
To:   Eastern Summit County Planning Commission 
From:   Ray Milliner, County Planner  
Date of Meeting: April 2, 2026 
Type of Item:  Code Amendment – Public Hearing, Possible Recommendation 
Process:   Legislative Review 
File #:    
 
 
Proposal 
The applicants, Garff Rogers Ranches LLC and Ivory Development, have applied to amend  
the Eastern Summit County Development Code to create a new zone called the Lost Creek 
Community Zone (LCCZ). The zone would enable the creation of public/private 
infrastructure, multiple types of residential uses, and neighborhood commercial uses.  
 
Background 
The applicant is the owner of approximately 407 acres in the Brown’s Canyon area. Currently 
the property is zoned AG -80, which means one unit of density for every 80 acres of land. 
Access to the property would be from Brown’s Canyon Road.  
 
The applicant stated: 
 
“The intent of the LCCZ is to allow for a flexible, master -planned approach to land 
use, infrastructure, and design that responds to site -specific conditions, protects 
environmental resources, and advances long -term community objectives in a 
predictable and transparent manner.” 
 
The creation of the LCCZ would be the first step in the process. If the application to amend 
the Development Code is successful, the applicant would then apply for a Master Planned 
Development/Rezone process that would get into the specifics of the project (project layout, 
utilities, number and type of units etc.).   
 
Applicable Review Process 
The process for modifying the Eastern Summit County Development Code is established in 
Section 11-5-3. The Code outlines two distinct but related processes: (1) amendments to 
the text of the Development Code, and (2) amendments to the Official Zone District Map 
(rezoning). 
 
30
2 
 
A. Development Code Text Amendments 
Amendments to the text of the Development Code involve changes to the written regulations 
and standards. The review process includes the following steps: 
 
1. Planning Commission Review: The Planning Commission conducts a public hearing 
and forwards a recommendation. 
2. County Council Action: The County Council conducts a public hearing and takes final 
action to approve or deny the proposed amendment. 
 
B. Zone District Map Amendments (Rezone) 
A r ezone involves changes to the zon e designation of specific properties and may be 
initiated either by a private property owner or by the County. 
 
1. Private Applications: Rezone applications initiated by a property owner must: 
 
a. Be consistent with the General Plan; 
b. Promote public health, safety, and general welfare; and 
c. Be signed by all property owners within the proposed rezone area. 
 
2. The Planning Commission and County Council  must find that the proposed 
development:  
 
a. Is consistent with the General Plan; 
b. Is compatible with surrounding land uses; 
c. Complies with applicable development standards; and 
d. Does not create undue impacts on the surrounding community. 
 
C. Final Action by Ordinance 
All amendments to the Development Code, including both text and map changes, must be 
adopted by ordinance in accordance with Utah state law. 
 
D. Current Application 
The current request is an application to amend the text of the Development Code to 
establish the proposed Lost Creek Zone.  If the text amendment is approved, 
implementation of the zone would require a separate application to amend the Zone District 
Map (rezone) for any specific property. That future application would be reviewed under the 
criteria and procedures outlined above. 
 
Analysis 
The proposed Lost Creek Zone introduces a new development framework for properties in 
the Brown’s Canyon/Lost Creek area. Staff have identified areas for discussion. 
 
 
 
31
3 
 
Relationship with Existing Development Processes 
The proposed zone appears to function similarly to the Specially Planned Area (SPA) process 
in that it allows for flexibility in development standards and site design. However, unlike the 
SPA process, the proposal does not include a defined public benefit requirement. Additional 
clarification regarding how this zone is intended to function relative to existing planning tools 
may be warranted. 
 
Additionally, several basic  development standards, including density, setbacks, building 
height, and parking , are not explicitly established in the proposal and would be subject to 
negotiation. While flexibility can support creative site design, the absence of defined 
parameters will reduce predictability in the review process. 
 
Consistency with the General Plan 
The County’s adopted planning documents have not identified the Brown’s Canyon area as 
a location for significant new density. As such, additional analysis , or amendments to the 
existing plan would be required to determine how the proposed zone aligns with applicable 
General Plan goals and policies. 
 
At the same time, the proposal does incorporate several concepts that are consistent with 
ongoing General Plan discussions, including integrated project design, connectivity, and the 
potential for master-planned or community-oriented development. 
 
Infrastructure and Level of Service 
The subject area currently lacks established utility infrastructure. County code typically 
requires that development demonstrates the ability to provide an adequate level of service 
for water, wastewater, transportation, and other public facilities. 
 
The proposal does not appear to include specific provisions requiring that development be 
phased or limited based on the availability of infrastructure. Further clarification regarding 
how infrastructure capacity and timing would be addressed may help ensu re consistency 
with County standards. 
 
Geographic Scope and Development Pattern 
The proposal includes a requirement that projects be located within one mile of Lost Creek 
Road. This area encompasses a relatively large amount of land, much of which is currently 
undeveloped, and may allow for development across a large  geographic area. Additionally, 
the proposal indicates that parcels included within a project are not required to be 
contiguous. As written, this could allow projects to incorporate a mix of parcels within the 
one-mile radius along with non-contiguous parc els located at gre ater distances. Further 
clarification regarding the intent and limits of this provision may help ensure that 
development occurs in a cohesive and predictable pattern. 
 
The zone establishes a minimum project size of 100 acres but does not include a maximum 
project size. In combination with limited development standards, this framework could
 
32
4 
allow for large-scale projects with dispersed development patterns if additional parameters 
are not established. 
Open Space and Site Design 
The proposal includes a requirement for a minimum of 10% open space. For projects of 100 
acres or more, this would result in a substantial amount of developable land. The Planning 
Commission may wish to consider whether a higher open space requirement or additional 
design standards would better support resource protection and community character 
objectives. 
Affordable Housing and Transportation 
The proposal includes a provision for 10% affordable housing. Unfortunately, State statute 
limits the County from requiring affordable units as part of its code unless the County and 
the applicant enter into a written agreement (negotiated as part of a development 
agreement), or the County provides incentives for said affordable housing (density bonuses, 
etc.).   
The proposed location for the development currently does not have  access to transit or 
other transportation options for residents. Consideration of transportation availability is 
important when evaluating long-term livability and accessibility. 
Questions: 
• Should baseline development standards (density, height, setbacks, parking) be more
clearly defined?
• How does the proposed zone align with General Plan policies for the Brown’s Canyon
area?
• What, if any,  infrastructure and phasing requirements should be established to
ensure adequate levels of service?
• Is the one-mile proximity standard appropriately scaled?
• Should a maximum project size or additional controls be considered to manage
development patterns?
• Is the proposed open space requirement sufficient?
• How should affordable housing be addressed within the constraints of state law?
Recommendation 
Staff recommends that the Eastern Summit County Planning Commission review the 
proposal to amend the Eastern Summit County Development Code  and provide the 
applicant and staff with direction. 
Exhibits
A:  Proposed Code Language
33
1 
 
11-3-__: LOST CREEK COMMUNITY ZONE (LCCZ):  
 
A. District Intent: The Lost Creek Community Zone establishes a collaborative and flexible 
approach to creating a community in Lost Creek that is capable of delivering public 
benefits such as increasing attainable housing supply, open space, and employment. It 
provides an adaptable, large-scale framework that coordinates land use, infrastructure, 
housing, and open space to guide future growth. This approach supports integrated, well-
designed communities and avoids reliance on rigid traditional zoning, ensuring orderly 
development, long-term sustainability, and consistency with Summit County’s overall 
goals.  
1. The Lost Creek Community Zone will enable the creation of a broad strategy that 
will result in a comprehensive, community-specific land use and design strategy 
that will address community specific needs. The needs that will be addressed, 
include, but are not limited to:  
a. Construction of cost-efficient public and/or private infrastructure 
(streets, water and wastewater).  
b. A range of housing opportunities. 
c. Space for neighborhood businesses and live-work space.  
2. Definitions: 
a. Lost Creek Community Zone means a zoning district applied to real 
property where a property owner or group of property owners has 
submitted a petition to amend the county’s zoning map. 
b. Community Plan means a depiction of proposed uses and other elements 
within an area qualifying as a LCCZ area, which plan is approved as a 
zoning map amendment at the time the LCCZ is applied to a qualifying 
area by the County Council. 
B. The Lost Creek Community Zone Location Requirements: 
1. In order for a property to be rezoned to the LCCZ, the property must be located 
within one (1) mile of Lost Creek Road, and need not be contiguous. 
2. An area for a LCCZ must be no smaller than one hundred (100) acres, as depicted 
in a Community Plan. 
3. A LCCZ may only be applied to private property where the property owner 
petitions for inclusion of that property owner’s property in the LCCZ. 
4. A LCCZ may be applied to public land where the County Council determines it 
should be applied to public property in connection with approving a property 
owner’s petition to apply the LCCZ to nearby private property. 
34
2 
 
C. The Lost Creek Community Zone Establishment Process:  
1. Initiation: The Lost Creek Community Zone process shall be initiated by filing a 
petition to amend the zoning map to rezone an identified area as LCCZ.  
2. Lost Creek Community Zone Area Boundary: A proposed LCCZ boundary shall 
be proposed by property owners and meet the requirements of Subsection 11-3-
__.B. The proposal will ultimately be reviewed for possible approval by the 
County Council after consideration and recommendation by the planning 
commission.  
3. Development Agreement: As part of its recommendation, the planning 
commission shall include provisions that planning commission recommends be 
included in the development agreement that will be prepared subsequent to the 
planning commission’s recommendation and proposed to the County Council to 
implement the Community Plan.   
4. Lost Creek Community Zone Petition Materials: A petition to rezone an area shall 
include a Community Plan depicting the location of proposed uses. It shall 
include other general materials, each of which may be further developed or 
modified as phases of development are reviewed and approved: 
a. Community Plan: A depiction of the location of proposed residential 
uses, as area concepts, with a range of proposed densities.  The 
Community Plan is not required to include proposed lot configurations, 
which lot configurations will be determined through a subdivision plat 
process after approval of the Community Plan.  The Community Plan 
may include proposed neighborhood commercial and other mixed-use 
land-uses as identified as permitted in Table 11-3-__.G.  
1) The Community Plan shall be designed to fit into the topography 
of the site and propose concepts to mitigate impacts on the natural 
environment and resources of the surrounding area. The project 
design shall demonstrate the preservation of watercourses, 
drainage areas, wooded areas, rough terrain and similar natural 
features and areas.  
2) The Community Plan shall take adjacent land uses into 
consideration. Development along the project perimeter shall 
adequately mitigate any potentially adverse effects, including but 
not limited to flooding, erosion, subsidence, sloping of the soil or 
other dangers and nuisances.  
3) The Community Plan shall identify vehicular access from a public 
road(s). All projects shall have a secondary point of 
access/emergency access unless otherwise mitigated to the 
satisfaction of the County Engineer and/or Fire Marshal. All 
roads/streets shall follow the natural contours of the site wherever 
35
3 
 
possible to minimize the amount of grading. 
b. Density Analysis: The proposed maximum density shall be identified in 
the proposed Community Plan.   The density maximums may be 
identified in the Community Plan map and confirmed in the 
development agreement proposed to and negotiated with the County 
Council. 
c. Development Standards: Proposed requirements for the development, 
including but not limited to minimum lot sizes, building height limits, 
setbacks, parking requirements, and street dimensions may be included 
in the Community Plan. These standards will be included in the 
development agreement. 
d. Public and Private Spaces: A description and/or depictions of proposed 
concepts for any community/civic space, open space, trails and/or 
amenities. 
e. Infrastructure: A description of the potential scenarios for providing 
utilities and services to the area described in the Community Plan.  
Existing or proposed utilities, including private and public services for 
the development identified in the Community Plan will be adequate to 
support the proposed project at normal service levels and will be 
designed to comply with applicable state and federal requirements. 
f. Site Design Narrative: The Community Plan development shall include a 
written explanation of how the plan addresses the following design 
questions:  
1) Neighborhood Connectivity: How does the proposed development 
interconnect and the surrounding properties, neighborhood, and 
area? Including but not limited to:  
a. Where will vehicles enter and exit the site?  
b. Where will new streets be developed?  
c. Is there a need for pedestrian and bicycle routes (including 
trails and sidewalks) through the project area? If so, how 
are such needs addressed?  
2) Meeting Housing Needs: How does the proposed development 
advance the community need for a mix of housing types and 
affordability? 
3) Character: What are the architectural design character objectives of 
the proposed development? How do these design objectives 
36
4 
 
address the local context, climate, and/or community needs?  
4) Site Design: How is the proposed development designed to take 
advantage of the existing topography, landscape features, trees, 
wildlife corridors, existing structures, minimize site grading, etc.?  
5) Complete Street Design: How is the proposed development 
street/circulation system designed to accommodate a variety of 
transportation modes (where appropriate), easy route finding, and 
safe speeds?  
6) Parking Areas: How does the proposed development balance the 
need for parking with the need to design parking areas in a manner 
that minimize visibility, site grading, and exterior lighting?  
7) Public And Private Outdoor Spaces: What are the proposed 
development's need(s) for outdoor space, open space, 
habitat/wildlife areas, parks, or outdoor amenity areas? How does 
the proposed development address these needs?  
5. Eastern Summit County Planning Commission Review: A petition to apply the 
Lost Creek Community Zone, including a Community Plan shall be reviewed by 
the Eastern Summit County Planning Commission as a rezone per chapter 5 of 
this title. The Eastern Summit County Planning Commission's recommendation 
on the rezone and elements to be included in the development agreement shall be 
forwarded to the County Council for review and final action.  
6. County Council Review And Action: The County Council shall review and take 
final action on a Lost Creek Community Zone petition and accompanying 
Community Plan pursuant to subsection 11-5-3B of this title. Final action shall 
include a Council decision to amend the Eastern Summit Zoning Map and enter 
into a development agreement. 
D. Lost Creek Community Zone Development Agreement Requirements: The Development 
Agreement that is approved at the time of the rezone shall consider the following 
requirements.  
1. Density: The maximum density permitted within the Community Plan. 
2. Setbacks:  
a. The minimum setback around the exterior boundary of the Community 
Plan area, and 
b. Lot and site setbacks, and their proportion to lot sizes and lot 
configurations. 
3. Building Height: The maximum building height for all structures within the 
37
5 
 
Community Plan area. 
4. Minimum Lot Size Requirements: Establish the minimum lot sizes, if any, for the 
different use types within the Community Plan area.  
5. Open Space: The development agreement and Community Plan shall provide for 
open space of at least ten percent (10%) of the Community Plan area. The open 
space can be phased with the platting of the project and may be set aside as open 
space through appropriate designation on approved subdivision plats. 
6. Affordable Housing.  The development agreement and Community Plan shall 
provide for at least ten percent (10%) of affordable housing to be included within 
the Community Plan area. Housing that accounts for 30% or less of the household 
income at the 80% AMI for Summit County, shall be meet this requirement.  
7. Off-Street Parking: The off-street parking standards within the Community Plan 
area. 
8. Uses: The planned uses and general locations of the uses. 
9. Connectivity: Internal and external vehicular/pedestrian/bicycle circulation should 
be described in the development agreement. 
10. Outdoor Lighting: All outdoor lighting shall be down directed and fully shielded. 
All outdoor lighting shall be designed and installed to prevent light trespass on 
adjacent properties. Lighting of the United States flag is exempt from this 
provision.  
11. Compliance With Development Evaluation Standards: Unless otherwise permitted 
by this chapter all Lost Creek Community Zone developments shall comply with 
all requisite development evaluation standards found in chapter 2 of this title.  
12. Modifications: The Development Agreement shall identify the process in which 
the Development Agreement may be modified.  
E. The Lost Creek Community Zone Development Process:  
1. Each phase of the development will be reviewed to be in accordance with the 
development agreement and Community Plan which were approved when the 
property was rezoned to the LCCZ. 
2. The review and approval shall be completed in accordance with the subdivision 
review process pursuant to section 11-4-5 of this title. 
3. The planning commission shall review and approve preliminary plats for each 
phase of the development.  
4. Final plat approval shall be granted by the Planning Director.  
38
6 
 
F. The Lost Creek Community Zone Modifications:  
1. Additional property may only be added to the LCCZ pursuant to the rezone 
process found in Subsection 11-5-3B of this title and the modification of the 
development agreement pursuant to 11-3-_-D.12 to reflect the area added to the 
zone. 
2. Major Modifications to a Community Plan can be approved by the Planning 
Commission. Major Modifications include any modification that includes any of 
the following: 
a. Relocation of points of access to a county or state road. 
b. A change in the location of any proposed commercial and mixed-use 
land-uses.  
3. Minor Modifications to a Community Plan can be approved by the Planning 
Director. A minor modification is any change not identified as a Major 
Modification or the addition of property into the LCCZ. 
G. Table of Permitted Uses in the LCCZ 
 
A = Allowed   
C = Conditional  
L = Low impact  
 T = Temporary  
Blank = Prohibited  
Uses Permitted Additional Reference 
Accessory buildings and uses to the 
principal use, exceeding 2,000 square 
feet 
L 
  
Accessory buildings and uses to the 
principal use, not to exceed 2,000 
square feet 
A 
  
Adaptive reuse of a historically 
significant structure A Section 11-6-21 of this title 
Agricultural employee dwelling unit  A Section 11-6-5 of this title 
Agricultural employee facility for the 
purpose of providing shelter for more 
than 1 family 
A 
  
Agriculture buildings and uses 
customarily associated with traditional 
"agriculture" operations as defined in 
appendix A of this title 
A 
  
Banks and financial services  A   
39
7 
 
Bars, taverns, private clubs A   
Bed and breakfast inn  A   
Building integrated solar energy system A Section 11-6-22  
Butcher, retail A   
Childcare, commercial  A   
Childcare, in home (4 children or less) A   
Childcare, family (with 5 - 8 children)  A   
Childcare, family (with 9 - 16 children) A   
Commercial riding arenas  L   
Commercial stables  L   
Contractor's office A   
Distillery/microbrewery  A   
Dwelling unit, accessory   A Section 11-6-5  
Dwelling unit, internal accessory  A Section 11-6-5  
Dwelling unit, live/work  A Section 11-6-5  
Dwelling unit, multi-family  A   
Dwelling unit, one-family  A   
Dwelling unit, single-family attached  A   
Equipment rental, light  A   
Event center  L   
Gasoline service station with or without 
convenience store A   
Ground mounted solar energy system A Sections 11-4-8, 11-6-22 
Guest ranches or lodge intended to 
attract visitors/patrons on a daily basis 
or an extended stay 
A 
  
Home occupation  A Section 11-6-3 o 
Hospitals  A   
Hotel, motel  A   
Houses of worship including churches 
and other religious institutions A   
Indoor entertainment such as bowling 
alleys, skating rinks, movie theater, 
performing arts center 
A 
  
Nursery/greenhouse  A   
Off-site parking lot for event centers or 
guest ranchers  A Section 11-6-24 
Open space, recreational (motorized)  A   
Open space, recreational (non-
motorized)  A   
Professional offices  A   
Recreation and athletic facilities A   
40
8 
 
Rehearsal or teaching studio for 
creative, performing and/or martial arts 
with no public performances 
A 
  
Restaurant  A   
Restaurant with drive-through  A   
Retail commercial establishments  A   
Rock quarries, gravel pits, and 
associated surface mining uses, 
including, but not limited to, filtering, 
sifting, and processing of soil 
C 
 
Roof mounted solar energy system   A Section 11-6-22 
Seasonal plant and agricultural product 
sales A   
Telecommunications facilities - stealth 
(up to 45 feet in height)  L Section 11-6-8 
Underground transmission lines 
exceeding 6 inches in diameter that are 
not considered hazardous liquids or 
materials transmission pipelines as 
defined in section 11-6-19 of this title 
L 
  
Underground transmission lines 
exceeding 12 inches diameter 
(including but not limited to gas, oil 
and water) 
L 
  
Utility structures and related facilities  A  Section 11-6-6 
Utility towers and associated 
transmission and distribution lines 45 
feet in height or less 
C 
  
Utility towers and associated 
transmission and distribution lines 
greater than 45 feet in height 
A 
  
Veterinarian clinic A  
Warehousing and commercial storage C   
Water and wastewater treatment plant     
Wind power generation facilities 45 
feet in height and less L   
 
41