1.
Work Session to discuss and receive direction on proposed amendments to Chapter
1: Introduction and Chapter 2: Land Use of the Snyderville Basin General Plan. This
item is for discussion and direction only; no recommendation or action will be taken
by the Planning Commission. 
Ray Milliner, Principal Planner, Mustapha Osman
County Planner. 
1.
Public comments for items not on the agenda or pending applications.
2.
Approval of Minutes: November 25, 2025, January 13, 2026, and January 27, 2026.
AGENDA 
SNYDERVILLE BASIN PLANNING COMMISSION 
Tuesday, February 10, 2026
NOTICE is hereby given that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission will meet
electronically, via Zoom, and at the anchor location of Richins Auditorium
1885 W. Ute Blvd., Park City, UT 84098
(All times listed are general in nature, and are subject to change by the Board Chair)
 
You may attend in person or
 
Join Zoom webinar:
https://summitcountyut.zoom.us/j/98189226475  
OR
To listen by phone only: Dial 1-669-900-9128 or 1-253-215-8782, Webinar ID: 981 8922 6475 
 
4:30 P.M. Work Session
 
Work Session Report February 10, 2026.pdf
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
 
 
Draft SBPC Minutes 11.25.25.pdf
Draft SBPC Minutes 01.13.26.pdf
Draft SBPC Minutes 01.27.26.pdf
Commission Items
Director Items
Adjourn
To view staff reports available at the end of the Friday before the meeting please visit
www.summitcounty.org.
 
Individuals needing special accommodations pursuant to the Americans with Disabilities Act regarding this
meeting may contact Vicki Geary, Summit County Community Development Department at (435)336-3123.
1
 Community Development Department 
P.O. Box 128 
60 North Main Street 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
summitcounty.org 
STAFF REPORT 
To:  Sn
yderville Basin Planning Commission 
From:  Ray Milliner, Mustapha Osman 
Date of Meeting: February 10, 2026 
Type of Item:  General Plan Amendment – Work Session 
Process:  Legislative  
Proposal 
The purpose of this work session is to gather input from the Planning Commission on the overall direction, 
clarity, and intent of Chapters 1 and 2 of the draft General Plan.  
Background 
The draft plan is a culmination of a two-year planning effort that began with the “Our Summit” visioning 
survey in 2024. That plan established the community’s long-term vision and priorities and provided a 
foundation for the draft document. Throughout 2025, the County conducted General Plan Community 
Open Houses, online surveys, and engagement activities to refine that vision, evaluate existing 
conditions and develop goals, policies and strategies in each element of the plan. The draft has been 
reviewed and commented on by all applicable County departments and staff. Most recently, the State 
mandated Water Element was reviewed and adopted by the County Council on December 17, 2025, and 
has been incorporated into this draft.  
S
taff are requesting that the Commission discuss and consider: 
• Wh
ether these chapters are consistent with the vision , and guiding principles of the overall
General Plan.
• Whether the proposed goals, objectives and themes provide appropriate guidance for future
decision making and implementation.
• Whether there are topics, themes or policy areas that appear to be missing  or are
underrepresented.
Recommendation 
Staff recommend the Planning Commission review the proposed Amendments to Chapters 1 and 2 of 
the Snyderville Basin General Plan and provide staff with direction.  
E
xhibits 
A: Draft chapters 1 and 2 of the Snyderville Basin General Plan 
2
CHAPTER 1: INTRODUCTION  
WHAT IS A GENERAL PLAN  
A general plan is a long-range plan for the physical development of a community. General plans in Utah are authorized and required 
by the Land Use Development and Management Act (LUDMA) located in Utah State Code, Titles 10 and 17. Section 17-27a-401 of Utah 
State Law requires that all Counties adopt a comprehensive general plan for the purposes of addressing the present and future needs 
of the County regarding “growth and development of all or any part of the land within the unincorporated portions of the county.” 
The general plan should also be flexible to account for future changes unforeseen at the time of its creation. 
The overall intent of a general plan is to make the planning process clear, consistent, efficient, and predictable. It identifies what types 
of development are considered desirable and appropriate in specific areas. 
The Snyderville Basin General Plan (General Plan) is an advisory, non-binding document. County decision makers use the Plan to guide 
land use planning decisions, direct and coordinate efficient and orderly development based on analysis of the present and f uture 
needs of the County, and to promote the vision and goals of the County. 
PLANNING AUTHORITY  
This General Plan is intended to be a legally adopted policy 
document and has been prepared to comply with Utah State law. 
Utah Code 17 -79-403 identiﬁes several topics required to be 
addressed in a county general plan. Per LUDMA, local 
governments are given some ﬂexibility in the organization of 
these elements and may address other topics of local interest or 
importance in a general plan. 
Over time, changes will occur for many reasons, including 
unforeseen conditions, new development trends, and 
advancements in technology and information. These variables 
are subject to review, and it may be necessary to amend this 
G e n e r a l  P l a n  f r o m  ti m e  t o  ti m e  t o  e n s u r e  t h a t  i t  r e m a i n s  
relevant. Requests for amendments may be submitted by 
individuals or initiated by the County itself. 
In addition to policies, this General Plan also contains 
implementation strategies and recommendations designed to 
accomplish Plan goals. The Implementation section of the 
document is intended to be reviewed and updated periodically, 
allowing for evaluation of progress on project implementation, 
as well as consideration of the addition of new implementation 
steps. 
HOW TO USE THE PLAN  
Following the Introduction, this General Plan is organized 
into chapters based on speciﬁc elements. The elements 
include Land Use, Housing, Transportation and Connectivity, 
Economic Development, Natural and Cultural Resources, 
Open Space, Community Health and Recreation, Sustainable 
Development and Water Use, and Public Facilities and 
Services. Each chapter contains a statement on the existing 
conditions relating to the element, the results of community 
engagement, and goals, objectives, policies, and stra tegies 
for each element. Goals are a direct expression of 
community desires.  An objective breaks down a goal into a 
more concrete target that helps achieve a goal. A policy 
refers to a speciﬁc guideline that directs future development 
decisions within the community, acting as a roadmap for how 
the community intends to achieve its goals. A strategy is a 
statement of measurable activity to be reached in pursuit of 
the goals, objectives, and policies.  
Following the chapters for each element is a chapter titled 
Neighborhood Plans. In order to protect existing 
neighborhood characteristics and to promote cohesive 
planning in the future, the following Neighborhood Planning 
Areas have been identiﬁed: Bitner  Road, Canyons, Central 
Basin, East Basin, Highland Estates, Jeremy 
Ranch/Pinebrook, Kimball Junction, North Mountain, Old 
Ranch Road, Quinn’s Junction, Rasmussen Road, Silver Creek, 
The Summit, Trailside, Utah Olympic Park, and West 
Mountain.  
All neighborhoods should adhere to the goals, objectives, 
policies, and strategies found in the individual chapters of 
the Plan. However, each Neighborhood Planning Area will 
not lend itself equally to the application of only those goals, 
objectives policies, and strategies. Individual Neighborhood 
Plans may contain unique design objectives and/or special 
considerations. Each Neighborhood Planning Area includes a 
Future Land Use Map. The Future Land Use Maps are meant 
to convey a general intent as to preferred future land uses 
and ar e e xpect ed to evolve over time. They are not z oning 
maps.  
The ﬁnal chapter is titled Implementation. The purpose of 
this chapter is to ensure that the Plan’s goals are achieved by 
providing speciﬁc measures. This chapter provides the who, 
what, when, how, and how much – in other words, the 
details needed to put  into practice the community’s vision 
for the future.   
3
D
EMOGRAPHY  
As of 2024, Summit County, Utah, had an estimated population of 43,304 residents, with approximately 49% (21,206 individuals) residing 
in the unincorporated Snyderville Basin. According to the Utah Population Committee, convened by the Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute, the 
county experienced varied population growth over the past ﬁve years: a modest increase of 0.42% in 2020, peaking at 1.05% in 2021, 
followed by a slight decline to 0.96% in 2022 and 0.56% in 2023. In 2024, the county recorded a population decrease of 0.43%, marking the 
ﬁrst negative growth rate in 5 years. Summit County has one of the oldest populations in the state, with a median age of 41.8 years 
signiﬁcantly higher than Utah’s statewide average of 31.3 years. Table 1 shows the population estimates for Summit County 
2020-2024. Figure 1 shows the component of change for Summit County 2020-2024 
Table 1. Summit County Population Estimates 2020-2024 
Year Total 
Population 
Natural 
Increase 
Net 
Migration 
Absolute 
Growth 
Percent 
Growth 
(%) 
2020 42,394 254 -75 179 0.42 
2021 42,837 231 212 443 1.05 
2022 43,249 199 213 412 0.96 
2023 43,491 202 40 242 0.56 
2024 43,304 273 -459 -186 -0.43
Source: Utah Population Committee, 2024 
SUMMIT COUNTY CONTEXT 
HISTORY  O F T HE S NYDERVILLE B ASIN 
The Snyderville Basin was settled in 1848 with the arrival of the ﬁrst Mormon pioneers, Parley Pratt and Samuel Snyder. By 1862, William 
Kimball built the Kimball Hotel and the Overland Stage Station which were visited by Mark Twain, Walt Whitman, and Horace Greely. 
To this day, the descendants of multiple ranching families remain in Summit County, many of whom still cultivate and harvest the same 
land their relatives once did. In 1869, ore comprised of silver, lead, and gold was discovered in Park City leading to a quick boomtown 
that included miners, saloons, brothels, and cemeteries. In 1898, a ﬁre engulfed most of Park City’s Main Street, however, it was rebuilt 
within 90 days. 100 years from the ﬁrst discovery of precious metals, the Town became quiet, as the low price of silver decimated the 
once vibrant town. Beginning in the 1870s, Mormon settlers began working to link the Wasatch Front with expanding railway lines 
reaching into present-day Summit County. The ﬁrst of these “Mormon Roads” in the area was the Summit County Railway, which ran 
between Echo and Coalville. In 1880, the line was extended to Park City, spurred by the rise of silver mining. The railways fell into disuse 
and over the past decades, have been repurposed throughout the County.  
As the mining industry faded, skiing became the new key ﬁxture for Summit County’s economy. The development of the area’s ﬁrst ski 
resort sparked the start of a decades-long trend of outdoor recreation. Completed in 1963, Park City Mountain Resort, then named 
Treasure Mountain, was the ﬁrst of three resorts to be developed. The United Park City Mines Company built the ﬁrst ski trails at Park 
City Ski Resort which featured a gondola and golf course. Decades later, the ski resorts have grown, merged, changed ownership, and 
made a profound impact on the local economy. With great economic growth came many challenges, and the impacts are felt far beyond 
the original ski resort boundaries. Summit County is a destination for its scenic vistas, ski resorts, and recreational opportunities. Today, 
Summit County is made up of many diﬀerent communities: Snyderville Basin, Park  Cit y, Kamas, Francis, Woodland, Oakle y, Peoa, 
Wanship, Hoytsville, Coalville, Henefer, and additional unincorporated Eastern Summit County communities. The City of Coalville is the 
County seat. The County is known for a high quality of life with a close connection to history and heritage. Utah has grown considerably 
PLANNING IN THE SNYDERVILLE BASIN  
Summit County implemented its ﬁrst Development Code in 1977, 
covering the entire County. In 1985, the County was divided into two 
planning districts: Snyderville Basin and Eastern Summit County. 
Each district has its own General Plan, development code, an d 
planning commission. The two General Plans are designed to 
collaborate to promote regional coordination across the County. 
The Snyderville Basin Development Code (Development Code) and 
zoning maps have undergone three major revisions. While both the 
previous and current versions of the Development Code include 
stringent zoning standards, much of the development in the 
Snyderville Basin occurred through lawsuits that led to Development 
Agreements, Consent Agreements, or Settlement Agreements. 
T
he previous iteration of this General Plan included appropriate 
guidance for new development. This iteration of the General Plan 
has been updated to reﬂect current conditions and includes more 
speciﬁc implementation strategies to proactively address change.  
Figure 1. Snyderville Settlement 
4
Figure 2. Component of Change Chart for Summit County 2020-2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
POPULATION PROFILE: AGE AND GENDER DISTRIBUTION  
The population pyramid serves as a foundational element in understanding the demographic structure of Summit County. The 
population pyramid for Summit County in 2023 highlights the age and gender structure of the County. There is a strong presence 
of youth, particularly among those aged 10 to 19, reﬂecting a family -oriented population and ongoing demand for educational 
and recreational services. The working -age population, especially those between 40 and 64 years, is also well -represented, 
indicating a mature and economically active community. While the elderly population is smaller, it becomes more prominent in 
the 70+ age range, with females outnumbering males in the oldest age group, consistent with national longevity trends. Figure 3 
shows the population pyramid of Summit County for 2023. Figure 3 shows the projected population pyramid for Summit County 
for 2043.  
Figure 3. Population Pyramid for Summit County 2023 
 
 
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT FOR GENERAL PLA N 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,141
1,238
1,721
1,639
1,288
1,198
1,229
1,198
1,573
1,560
1,649
1,416
1,768
1,425
872
571
298
162
1065
1352
1631
1427
1216
1109
1088
1094
1615
1512
1533
1623
1564
1288
696
472
266
212
1,800 1,400 1,000 600 200 200 600 1,000 1,400 1,800
        Under 5 years
        5 to 9 years
        10 to 14 years
        15 to 19 years
        20 to 24 years
        25 to 29 years
        30 to 34 years
        35 to 39 years
        40 to 44 years
        45 to 49 years
        50 to 54 years
        55 to 59 years
        60 to 64 years
        65 to 69 years
        70 to 74 years
        75 to 79 years
        80 to 84 years
        85 years and over
Population Pyramid: Summit County 2023
Sum of Male Sum of Female
Prior to updating the General Plan, Summit County 
underwent a year -long process to build consensus around a 
vision for the future of Summit County as a whole. A 
consultant was hired to engage community members on a 
variety of topics and to prepare strategies that could aid in 
achieving the vision. This plan is called 
Our Summit Vision and 
Strategic Plan (Our Summit).  
The resulting vision statement, as adopted by the Summit 
County Council, is as follows:  
Summit County embraces growth thoughtfully and navigates 
change with integrity by upholding community identities 
through proactive planning.  Decisions that affect our natural 
resources, lifestyle, unique identities, communities, and 
future built environme nts are made responsibly to ensure 
communities remain affordable, healthy, and inclusive to 
current and future generations.  
 
 
In addition to the vision statement, Our Summit identified five 
objectives based on the community values that emerged from 
the visioning, which include the following:   
• Manage Natural Resources  
• Promote Healthy Living  
• Preserve Unique Identities  
• Create Inclusive Communities  
• Grow Responsibly  
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
One of the next steps following the completion of Our Summit was 
to update the General Plan. Although Our Summit touches on many 
topics relevant to this General Plan, much of the data was high-level 
and spread across both planning districts in the County. 
There remained a need to dive into more detail to help inform 
policies and strategies specific to the Snyderville Basin. Building 
off Our Summit, Summit County entered an engagement period for 
the General Plan, which sought to refine themes and expand upon  
strategies that can help achieve the County -wide 
vision.  Engagement included one in-person open house, one virtual 
open house, two online surveys, one virtual chat -with-a-planner 
session, an online comment submission  option, and guidance from 
the General Plan Advisory Committee, made up of interested 
community members and planning commissioners. Where possible, 
the General Plan engagement continued to use the 
five objectives from the visioning for consistency and ease in digging 
deeper into specific topics. 
In addition to the specific outreach for the General Plan, Summit 
County was cautious to not over -engage the community 
following such a large outreach event  like Our Summit.  Where 
possible, the Planning Department coordinated with other 
engagement opportunities in the County. The Summit County 
Health Department was simultaneously conducting the 
quinquennial Community Health Assessment , and shared 
relevant data points  to the Planning Department to inform the 
General Plan.  Summit County began updating its Active 
Transportation Plan and also started a county -wide arts and 
culture plan during the engagement period for this General 
Plan.  A dditionally, Park City Municipal was simultaneously 
updating its general plan. Summit County and Park City shared 
relevant data to better align the general plans.  
 
  
The feedback collected from  Our Summit and the General Plan-
specific engagement opportunities have been considered in the 
policies and strategies within this document. Detailed 
summaries of County -initiated engagement responses and 
findings can be found in Appendix. Particularly relevant data has 
been highlighted in appropriate chapters.   
  
Generally, community  feedback indicated a high desire to 
preserve open spaces and maintain or improve high quality 
natural resources. The desire for open spaces were contradicted 
by the desire for more availability and types of housing without 
encouraging sprawl. Respondents encouraged redevelopment in 
areas with existing infrastructure, and for new commercial areas 
to be developed with more housing. There was a strong distaste 
for traffic and a desire for more transportation options to reduce 
congestion on roadways.  
 
  
Overall, community feedback highlighted the need for 
comprehensive, regional approaches to planning to balance the 
scenic and environmental quality of the area with the need of 
ensuring that the community can remain affordable, functional, 
and reflective of the cultures of those that support the economy.  
 
 
 
 
6
CHAPTER 2: LAND USE  
The Land Use Element  establishes the framework for how land is used, developed, and conserved in the Snyderville Basin. It guides 
zoning, development decisions, and infrastructure planning in a manner that balances growth, community needs, and the protecti on 
of rural character, open  spaces, and natural resources. The policies in this chapter provide direction for where  development should 
occur, the form it should take, and how land use decisions support the long-term vision of the Basin.   
The broader regional context, existing  conditions, and community engagement findings that inform the Land Use Element are 
described in Chapter 1. This Chapter  builds upon that foundation by translating community values and planning priorities into  land 
use goals and policies.   Community engagement  consistently emphasized the importance of protecting open space and rural 
character, improving housing options, managing traffic, and supporting vibrant, well designed commercial areas.   
 
EXISTING CONDITIONS  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LAND USE GOALS, OBJECTIVES, POLICIES AND STRATEGIES  
Sustainable land use planning balances growth with stewardship by guiding development in ways that respect natural systems, 
community character, and long -term economic vitality. Th e goal establishes a framework for managing growth while protecting the 
landscapes, services, and qualities that make the Snyderville Basin resilient and livable. 
 
EXISTING ZONES IN THE SNYDERVILLE BASIN  
In accordance with the requirements of the Utah code, the 
Snyderville Basin is divided into ten (10) zoning districts. See below 
map that shows the existing zones in the Snyderville Basin. 
Figure 5. Zoning Map of Snyderville Basin 
 
 
EXISTING PLANNING  AGREEMENTS  
Existing agreements within the Snyderville Basin represent 
established entitlements and approved development 
frameworks that shape current land use conditions.  There 
are 4 settlement agreements, 8 consent agreements and 36 
development agreement in the Snyderville Basin.  
Figure 6. Planning Agreement Areas Snyderville Basin 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OBJECTIVE A  
Encourage the creation of mixed-use areas and neighborhoods that 
are connected by open spaces and multi-modal transportation 
systems. 
POLICY 2.1  
Create neighborhood master plans for each Neighborhood Planning 
Area identified in Chapter 11 of this Plan. 
Strategy 2.1.1: Assess each Neighborhood Planning Area’s current 
conditions, including, but not limited to, land uses, housing 
availability, environmental conditions, and transportation to 
determine a priority list for the creation of neighborhood master 
plans. 
Strategy 2.1.2:  After the initial assessment described in Strategy 
2.1.1, begin the process of creating neighborhood master plans 
based on the priority list.   
POLICY 2.2  
Identify specific areas where development should and should not 
occur and zone them accordingly. 
Strategy 2.2.1: Establish clear criteria in the Development Code that 
guides where development should be encouraged or discouraged in 
anticipation of rezoning specific areas. 
POLICY 2.3  
Do not approve any new entitlements beyond those permitted by 
the Development Code until such time that existing entitlements 
are significantly exhausted, unless the County legislative body first 
determines that: 
a.  A ny new entitlement(s) are consistent with the Neighborhood 
Planning Area Plans and the General Plan’s Future Land Use Maps, 
as amended.  
b.  S uch new entitlement(s) do not simply result in an incidental 
benefit to the public interest, but rather such entitlement(s) are 
intended primarily to promote such compelling countervailing 
public interest, and 
c.  Compelling countervailing public interest, specifically identified 
in the General Plan exists and cannot be reasonably satisfied 
without expanding one or more entitlement(s). 
OBJECTIVE B  
Incentivize human scale, compact, dense developments defined 
by contiguous open spaces and multi -modal transportation, as 
well as a predictable process to achieve this goal through clear 
regulations in the Development Code. 
POLICY 2.5  
Explore future smart growth strategies, which may include land 
acquisitions, conservation easements, and clustered 
development principles. Each strategy should include clear 
performance standards and design flexibility that is targeted to 
specific mixed-use areas. 
Strategy 2.5.1: Review the Development Code provisions related 
to the Neighborhood Mixed Use Zone, Master Planned 
Development process, and the development standards to ensure 
current best practices are being utilized. 
POLICY 2.6  
Establish reasonable development design principles to promote 
a quality-built environment ideal for living in, working in, and/or 
visiting. 
Strategy 2.6.1:  Update the architectural standards in the 
Development Code.   
Strategy 2.6.2:  Evaluate the development standards in the 
Development Code and revise them as needed to align with 
current best practices.  
Strategy 2.6.3:  Evaluate current infill requirements to support 
development in suitable areas. 
 
OBJECTIVE C  
Create Zoning Districts that match existing development and/or 
promote desired future development. 
POLICY 2.7  
Create residential zoning districts for neighborhoods that do not 
currently comply with existing zoning development standards 
without creating more entitlements. 
Strategy 2.7.1: Create an existing residential zone district that 
recognizes those subdivisions that were established prior to the 
existing zoning regulations.   
POLICY 2.8  
In areas previously governed by Development Agreements, shift 
from Development Agreement requirements to zoning standards. 
Strategy 2.8.1: Create a land use table for the current Town Center 
and Resort Center zoning districts or rezone these development 
areas to a predictable land-use designation. 
POLICY 2.9  
Encourage the creation of new mixed -use, inclusive neighborhoods 
within existing development areas and/or areas designated on the 
future land use maps as mixed-use. 
OBJECTIVE D  
Ensure future development is well designed and appropriately 
located. 
POLICY 2.10  
Future commercial developments should be located in existing 
commercial areas, resort centers, town centers, mixed-use areas, 
or areas designated mixed-use on the Future Land Use Maps. 
POLICY 2.11  
Within defined mixed- use areas, a range of uses should be 
considered that are appropriate for each individual location and 
neighborhood, and may include small scale retail, offices, 
business and personal services, schools, and parks designed to 
meet the needs of the neighborhood. 
POLICY 2.12  
Mixed-use areas should contain an appropriate mix of residential 
and commercial development as well as recreational 
opportunities that provide connections to existing and future 
community trails and transit facilities. 
POLICY 2.13  
Any land use proposal that has the potential to significantly 
impact the existing neighborhood character should be analyzed 
within the context of the neighborhood planning area. This may 
result in the creation of a neighborhood master plan or require 
modifications to an existing master plan. 
POLICY 2.14  
Encourage locally based and neighborhood commercial 
businesses. 
Strategy 2.14.1:  Review the Development Code provisions 
relating to allowed and prohibited uses and update as necessary.  
Strategy 2.14.2: Ensure any standards related to neighborhood 
commercial uses prioritize and maintain the residential nature of 
the neighborhood.  
 
8
 
 
 
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
        
 
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                   
POLICY 2.15  
Review regional commercial uses for their impacts to existing 
businesses, traffic/parking impacts, and architectural design. 
Regional commercial uses should be limited to existing 
commercial development areas and/or future designated 
redevelopment nodes. 
POLICY 2.16  
Identify additional areas for light industrial/service commercial 
activities to meet the needs of local businesses and development 
activities. 
Strategy 2.16.1:  Collaborate with the Planning Commission and 
Summit County Council to assess their support for expanding 
Service Commercial zones 
POLICY 2.17  
Minimize inappropriate site layout practices, large parking lot 
surfaces, artificial lighting, non -conforming signs, and building 
design. 
Strategy 2.17.1:  Hold quarterly meetings with County 
Departments to ensure continued communication and 
implementation of best practices during the development review 
process. 
POLICY 2.18  
Strongly discourage roadside or strip commercial development 
where there is continuous or intermittent linear development 
generally one store deep, one or more access points for separate 
properties and with highly visible parking located between the 
road and the building. 
Strategy 2.18.1:  Create development standards that encourage 
more compact, and connected commercial centers rather than 
linear, scattered developments. 
POLICY 2.19  
Discourage large scale commercial “one story” structures. 
Strategy 2.19.1: Create development standards that limit allowed 
building footprints. 
POLICY 2.20  
Promote environmentally sustainable practices and establish 
clear, consistent standards for all types of development, including 
commercial landscaping, energy -efficient lighting, appropriately 
sized and styled signage, and well -planned, accessible parking 
design. 
Strategy 2.20.1:  Work with the Summit County Sustainability 
Department to ensure that current Development Code 
regulations are up to date with best practices for sustainable 
development.   
Strategy 2.20.2:  Prioritize low -impact development techniques 
(e.g. permeable paving, rain gardens, vegetated buffers) for 
stormwater management.   
Strategy 2.20.3: Enforce erosion and sediment control measures 
during construction. 
 
OBJECTIVE E  
Prevent the creation of new low-density suburban dispersed (e.g. 
non-clustered) residential development. 
POLICY 2.21  
New residential developments should be compact, connected, 
and incorporated whenever possible into mixed- use/transit 
friendly areas. 
POLICY 2.22  
New residential development should be located within existing 
and/or designated future redevelopment areas. 
OBJECTIVE F  
Use public infrastructure to direct development to desired growth 
areas.  
POLICY 2.23  
All new development should utilize public water and sewer systems 
and be accessed by public roads and connected by multimodal 
transit systems. 
POLICY 2.24  
All public infrastructure should be planned to direct future growth 
to existing development areas and/or future designated 
redevelopment nodes. 
POLICY 2.25  
Work to ensure that all local policy documents relating to water, 
sewer, and road infrastructure are consistent with the objectives 
of this Plan. 
 
OBJECTIVE G  
Ensure the preservation, conservation, and restoration of open 
spaces, agricultural areas, and Critical Lands. 
POLICY 2.26  
Maintain and keep a current map of preserved, protected, 
conserved, and deed restricted open space and Critical Lands. 
Strategy 2.26.1:  Work with the County Lands and Natural 
Resources Department to map preserved open spaces and Critical 
Lands.   
POLICY 2.27  
Work to protect open lands for the purposes of preserving scenic 
viewsheds, preventing the fragmentation of open lands, preserving 
wildlife habitat and corridors, protecting watersheds, and 
providing significant buffers between developed areas. 
POLICY 2.28  
Utilize open space to intentionally connect communities by 
providing shared areas for active and passive use. 
POLICY 2.29  
Review the potential of creating open -space zoning districts for 
conservation, wildlife, and/or public recreation purposes. 
POLICY 2.30  
Review new development for potential environmental impacts and 
to demonstrate sensitivity to the natural environment including 
preservation of  viewsheds, trees and native vegetation, water 
quality, and wildlife corridors. 
 
OBJECTIVE H  
Preserve the Snyderville Basin’s working farms and ranches and 
remaining unfragmented landscapes. 
POLICY 2.31  
Work with property owners to maintain working farms and ranches 
as a viable industry. 
Strategy 2.31.1:  Develop land use policies that prioritize 
agriculture and ranching. 
Strategy 2.31.2:  Create an agritourism program to support the 
continued use of the agriculture. 
  
9
                  
                  
                  
                  
     +             
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                   
SNDERVILLLE BASIN FUTURE LAND USE MAP  
The Future Land Use Map illustrates the long-term vision for how land in the Snyderville Basin is intended to be used and developed 
over the life of this General Plan. It reflects community values, environmental constraints, and policy direction by identifying where 
growth should be focused, where existing development patterns should be maintained, and where sensitive lands should be 
preserved. 
Figure 7. Snyderville Basin Future Land Use Map 
 
OBJECTIVE I  
Ensure a range of housing alternatives in self -contained, well -
designed communities. 
POLICY 2.32  
Support a variety of housing types. 
POLICY 2.33  
Support the development of viable opportunities for affordable 
housing and home ownership. 
POLICY 2.34  
Encourage the development/redevelopment of mixed- use 
neighborhoods designed to protect the natural environment and 
connect to community open spaces and existing trail networks. 
POLICY 2.35  
Incorporate integrated conservation design to preserve portions 
of the property for shared public open space through regulations 
in the Development Code. 
POLICY  2.36  
Encourage alternatives to the conventional pattern of low-
density dispersed single-family lot subdivisions for example by: 
Strategy 2.36.1: Allow the same number of units as allowed by 
current zoning, but in a denser development on a portion of the 
property.  
Strategy 2.36.2: Encourage the strategic sales of small portions 
of agricultural land in order to retain ranching, farming, or public 
open space on the remainder of the lands.  
Strategy 2.36.3: Adopt standards in the Development Code that 
incentivizes long-term rentals over short-term rentals. 
 
OBJECTIVE J  
Improve or eliminate the negative impacts of legal non -conforming 
uses. 
POLICY 2.37  
Support the elimination or improvement of non -conforming uses in 
order to bring properties into conformance and to eliminate land use 
conflicts. 
POLICY 2.38  
Support the conversion of non- conforming uses to legal uses or to 
other uses that have reduced impacts. 
 
OBJECTIVE K  
Support programs that encourage the reduction of solid waste and 
ensure solid waste is managed in a manner that minimizes 
environmental impacts. 
POLICY 2.39  
Work closely with landowners and other applicable agencies to 
implement strategies that encourage the diversion of solid waste 
from local landfills.   
Strategy 2.39.1:  Support increased education and communication 
with landowners and business owners regarding solid waste impacts 
and recycling benefits 
10
MINUTES
SUMMIT COUNTY
Snyderville Basin Planning Commission Meeting
SHELDON RICHINS BUILDING
1885 WEST UTE BOULEVARD, PARK CITY, UT, 84098
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 2025
Meeting also conducted via Zoom.
DRAFT
Tyann Mooney
Makena Hawley
Matthew Nagie
Spencer Young
Tim Jeffrey
Heather Peteroy
Peter Barnes
Lynda Viti
Amir Caus
Laura Kuhrmeyer
Amy Price
Brian Craven
Steve Borup
Rob Budetti
Colin Hilton
Jamie Kimball
Chris Conabee
Thomas Wadsworth
Welcome/Attendance
Regular Session (6:00 P.M.)
1) Possible action regarding a Master Planned Development for the
Junction Commons, a 19-building mixed use redevelopment
project at Junction Commons (formerly Outlets Park City), located
at 6699 N Landmark Dr, Kimball Junction, Summit County, UT;
Parcel FSE-1; Applicant: Elliott Workgroup representing SRE
Ontario LLC; Legislative Process. Project #24-087. Amir Caus, AICP,
Senior Planner. (6:00 P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
11
Attachment: Junction Commons Master Planned Development Staff
Report - November 25, 2025 Possible Action.pdf
Amir Caus, AICP, Senior Planner, addressed the commission stating
that an issue with the project had developed, therefore, the applicant
requested to be taken off the agenda. (6:01 P.M.)
2) Public comments for items not on the agenda or pending
applications. (6:02 P.M.)
Commission Chair Mooney opened the meeting for public comment at
6:02 p.m.
No one came forward to speak.
Commission Chair Mooney closed the meeting for public comment at
6:04 p.m.
3) Continued review, further discussion, and recommendation to the
County Manager of Architectural Design Standards pursuant to the
Administrative Development Agreement between Park City
Junction LLC and Summit County. Steve Borup of DPRE for Park
City Junction LLC. Peter Barnes Community Development Director.
(6:04 P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Kimball Junction West Architectural Design Standards Draft
2025-11-18
Attachment: Applicant Presentation - Architectural Design Standards
Peter Barnes, Community Development Director, introduced the agenda
item and provided background information for the discussion. (6:04
P.M.)
Steve Borup, Commercial Development Director at Dakota Pacific Real
Estate, and Rob Budetti, Managing Partner at AO Architects, addressed
the commission to respond to the concerns raised during the previous
meeting. They discussed several topics, including the mountain modern
style and feel, massing and scale, pedestrian circulation, roads, snow
storage, EV charging, and trails. They also highlighted changes made to
the presentation since the last meeting. (6:12 P.M.)
Commissioners inquired about the possibility of incorporating solar
panels into the project. They also asked if all planning reviews would be
presented to the planning commission. Additionally, they discussed
zoning for accessibility and the inclusion of family play areas in the open
spaces. Questions arose regarding who would manage the landscaping
and the need for a contemporary interpretation of Park City’s heritage.
The commissioners specifically mentioned the inclusion of Level 1
electric vehicle chargers and requested clarification on the proposed
materials and signage, while advising against the use of historic
ornaments. Director Borup, Partner Budetti, and Director Barnes
responded. (6:46 P.M.)
12
Makena Hawley made a motion to forward a positive
recommendation of the Architectural Design Standards for DPRE
to the County Manager with all the requested changes discussed,
including a condition that there must be a design review board to
approve designs within these guidelines and that a staff member
from the County or a planning commissioner must be on the board.
(7:23 P.M.). Spencer Young seconded, and all voted in favor, (6-
0). Absent: Eric Sagerman.
3) Public Hearing and possible recommendation to the Summit
County Council regarding a proposed Amendment to the
Development Agreement for the Utah Olympic Park Specially
Planned Area. Parcels PP-63-A, PP-62-3-UAF, KJS-6-1AM, PP-62-
KJS, PP-62-4, and PP-62-KJS, located in Summit County, Utah.
 Applicant: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation (UOLF). Legislative
Process. Project #25-111. Laura Kuhrmeyer, County Planner. (7:24
P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: UOP DA Amendment Staff Report SBPC PH 11.25.25
Attachment: Exhibit 1: Written Description
Attachment: Exhibit 2: Working Draft of Redlined Proposed DA 4th
Amended
Attachment: Exhibit 3: Revised Master Conceptual Development Plan
Attachment: Exhibit 4: Public Input
Attachment: Public Comment
Attorney Lynda Viti advised the planning commission on the Fourth
Amendment to the Development Agreement for the Utah Olympic Park
Specially Planned Area. According to the Summit County Code, the
major SPA modification standards, and the Master Plan Development
Standards, the commission does not have the authority to close Bear
Hollow Drive or the gate. Closing the road falls under the County
Council’s jurisdiction as the Highway Authority. Additionally, the
commission could not decide on the status of the pool or any proprietary
financial information, as these matters were not within the commission’s
purview. (7:26 P.M.)
Laura Kuhrmeyer, Planner, introduced the agenda item and outlined
changes to the proposal. (7:28 P.M.)
Colin Hilton, President and CEO of the Utah Olympic Legacy
Foundation (UOLF), along with Jamie Kimball, Utah Olympic Park
General Manager, Christopher Conabee, Principal of Utah Development
and Construction, and Thomas Wadsworth, Real Estate Development
and Construction Management at Utah Development and Construction,
presented updates on activities since the last meeting. They provided a
13
brief historical overview and context for the proposed development while
reviewing the major topic categories and actions. Additionally, they
addressed questions and concerns raised at the previous meeting,
including those regarding the pool closure. (7:36 P.M.)
The commissioners asked clarifying questions about Lot 6, specifically
regarding how parcels were agreed upon regarding the rights around
them. They also addressed Parcels 13 and 14 from the 2011 proposal,
designating them as 6A and 6B moving forward. Additionally, there was
a request for clarification on the square footage and whether there was
a discrepancy between the maximum floor area and the gross building
area. The presenters and staff responded. (8:09 P.M.)
5-minute break (8:25 P.M.)
Commission Chair Mooney opened the meeting for public hearing at
8:30 p.m.
Meta Haley was called to speak at 8:32 p.m.
Brooks Voorhees was called to speak at 8:39 p.m.
James Duckworth was called to speak at 8:41 p.m.
Shiela Vellarde was called to speak at 8:44 p.m.
Chris Gammons was called to speak at 8:46 p.m.
Jorge Velarde was called to speak at 8:49 p.m.
Aspen Haen was called to speak at 8:54 p.m.
Cheryl Duckworth was called to speak at 8:57 p.m.
Tom Lunzer was called to speak at 9:00 p.m.
Thomas Cooke was called to speak at 9:01 p.m.
Dirk Voorhees was called to speak at 9:05 p.m.
Tyler Keef was called to speak at 9:10 p.m.
Shawn Keeve was called to speak at 9:12 p.m.
Rowan Smith was called to speak at 9:19 p.m.
Erin Ferguson was called to speak at 9:19 p.m.
Chris Haslock "Hatch" was called to speak at 9:22 p.m.
Bob Devany was called to speak at 9:29 p.m.
Commission Chair Mooney closed the meeting for the public hearing at
9:30 p.m.
14
President and CEO UOLF Hilton, Manager Kimball, Principal Conabee,
and Wadsworth Real Estate Development and Construction
Management at Utah Development and Construction addressed
comments that were made during the public hearing. (9:31 P.M.)
Commissioners requested additional information, commented on the
project and the process, and provided feedback to the applicants. (9:41
P.M.)
Mr. Conabee addressed the comments made by Commissioners. The
Commissioners continued to provide feedback and ask questions. The
presenters, Director Barnes and Planner Kuhrmeyer provided
responses. (9:58 P.M.)
The item was continued to a date uncertain. (10:20 P.M.)
Makena Hawley made a motion to continue to a date uncertain.
(10:25 P.M.). Tim Jeffrey seconded, and the motion carried, (5-1).
Tyann Mooney voted AYE
Makena Hawley voted AYE
Spencer Young voted AYE
Tim Jeffrey voted AYE
Heather Peteroy voted AYE
Matthew Nagie voted NAY
Absent: Eric Sagerman
Commission Items (10:25 P.M.)
Commission Chair Mooney, on behalf of Commissioner Sagerman, requested a
meeting to provide guidance on processes. Community Development Director,
Peter Barnes, stated that formal training sessions would begin the following
year. (10:25 P.M.)
Director Items (10:27 P.M.)
Director Barnes provided an update on agenda items for upcoming meetings.
(10:27 P.M.)
Commission Chair Mooney asked Director Barnes a question regarding options
for subsidized infrastructure, to which Director Barnes responded. (10:28 P.M.)
Adjournment (10:32 P.M.)
Tyann Mooney made a motion to adjourn. Spencer Young seconded, and
all voted in favor, (6-0). Absent: Eric Sagerman.
Meeting minutes and recordings appear at summitcountyutah.gov/meetings. When in
the electronic version of the minutes, clicking on the hyperlinked times takes you to
that spot in the meeting recording.
15
MINUTES
SUMMIT COUNTY
Snyderville Basin Planning Commission Meeting
SHELDON RICHINS BUILDING
1885 WEST UTE BOULEVARD, PARK CITY, UT, 84098
TUESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2026
Meeting also conducted via Zoom.
DRAFT
Tyann Mooney
Makena Hawley
Matthew Nagie
Spencer Young
Tim Jeffrey
Heather Peteroy
Eric Sagerman
Lynda Viti
Jennifer Strader
Ray Milliner
Laura Kuhrmeyer
Tiffanie N. Robinson
Amy Price
Brian Craven
Colin Hilton
Chris Conabee
Thomas Wadsworth
Jamie Kimball
Welcome/Attendance
Regular Session (6:01 P.M.)
1) Public comments for items not on the agenda or pending
applications. (6:01 P.M.)
Commission Chair Mooney opened the meeting for public comment at
6:01 p.m.
No one came forward to speak.
Commission Chair Mooney closed the meeting for public comment at
6:01 p.m.
16
2) Public Hearing and Recommendation for Amendments to the
Snyderville Basin Development Code, Sections 10-3-5, 10-3-9,10-3-
15(A)(1) and (D)(2), 10-3-18(G)(1)(d)(1), 10-4-16(F)(2), 10-10-9-17(B)
(4)4-20(C)(4), 10-7-2(C)(3)-(4), 10-8-5(B)(1) and (2)(g), 10-8-13(C), 10-
9-1, 10-9-2, 10-9-9(A), (B), and (C), 10-9-17(B)(4), 10-9-20(B), 10-9-
21(A), 10-9-22(D)-(G), and Chapter 11. The proposed amendments
align state code references, fix internal inconsistencies
(numbering), capitalize defined terms, add definitions of words to
match the Eastern Summit County Development Code, and make
other non-substantive amendments. Jennifer Strader, Principal
Planner (6:01 P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Staff Report SBPC 1.13.26 PH Code Amendments
Jennifer Strader, Principal Planner, presented amendments to the
Snyderville Basin Development Code. (6:02 P.M.)
Commissioners asked brief clarifying questions to which Planner
Strader and Attorney Lynda Viti responded. (6:04 P.M.)
Commission Chair Mooney opened the meeting for public hearing at
6:10 p.m.
No one came forward to speak.
Commission Chair Mooney closed the meeting for public hearing at 6:10
p.m.
Makena Hawley made a motion to forward a positive
recommendation to amend certain sections of the Snyderville
Basin Development Code to the County Council based on the
findings of fact and conclusions of law found in the staff report.
Matthew Nagie seconded, and all voted in favor, (7-0). 
3) Public hearing and action regarding the proposed Plat Amendment
for Silver Creek Commerce Center Lot 7A Amended Subdivision;
6342 Silver Creek Drive; Parcel SCO-C-AM-7A. Administrative
Review. Applicant: Brandon Brady, Summit County. Owner: Silver
Creek Commerce Park LLC, Don Craig. Project #25-200. Tiffanie N.
Robinson, Senior Planner. (6:11 P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: SCO-C-AM-7A Plat Amend SBPC Staff Report #25-200
Tiffanie Robinson, Senior Planner, presented a plat amendment for
Parcel SCO-C-AM-7A in the Siler Creek Commerce Center (6:12 P.M)
Commission Chair Mooney opened the meeting for public hearing at
6:14 p.m.
No one came forward to speak.
Commission Chair Mooney closed the meeting for public hearing 6:14
p.m.
17
Spencer Young made a motion to approve the applicant's request
for a plat amendment according to the finds of fact, conclusions of
law, and conditions of approval found in the staff report. Tim
Jeffrey seconded, and all voted in favor, (7-0). 
4) Continued Discussion and recommendation to the Summit County
Council regarding a proposed Amendment to the Development
Agreement for the Utah Olympic Park Specially Planned Area.
Parcels PP-63-A, PP-62-3-UAF, KJS-6-1AM, PP-62-KJS, PP-62-4,
and PP-62-KJS, located in Summit County, Utah.  Applicant: Utah
Olympic Legacy Foundation (UOLF). Legislative Process. Project
#25-111. Laura Kuhrmeyer, County Planner. (6:15 P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Project #25-111 UOP 4th DA Amendment Staff Report
SBPC 1.13.26
Attachment: Exhibit 1: Proposed Master Conceptual Site Plan
Attachment: Exhibit 2: Draft of Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
Attachment: Exhibit 2a: Proposed Land Use and Zoning Chart
Attachment: Exhibit 3: Revised Trip Generation Memo
Attachment: Exhibit 4: Proposed Site Plan with Wildlife Area and
Previous Parcel Overlay
Attachment: Exhibit 5: DWR Letter
Attachment: Exhibit 5a: DWR Wildlife Habitat Analysis Tool Report
Attachment: Exhibit 6: Trails
Attachment: Exhibit 7: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation A Living Legacy
- Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute - U of U
Attachment: Exhibit 8: Kem C Gardner Policy Institute U of U Technical
Memo
Attachment: UOP Staff Presentation
Attachment: UOP Presentation
Attachment: UOP View #1
Attachment: UOP View #2
Laura Kuhrmeyer, Planner, briefly reintroduced the application to amend
the Development Agreement for the Utah Olympic Park Specially
Planned Area. She reminded the Commissioners that the public hearing
had been closed at the prior meeting, so no public comment would be
taken. Her presentation summarized the primary items that were talked
18
about at the last meeting; a new master conceptual development plan,
rearranging parcel locations and numbering, modifying the maximum
building height, gross buildable area and principal uses, moving three
uses from CUP to LIP, modifying the affordable housing calculation
method, and requesting County Council to designate UOP as a Major
Sporting Event Venue. (6:15 P.M.)
Applicants Colin Hilton, CEO, Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation, Chris
Conebee, Principal, Utah Development and Construction, Jamie
Kimball, General Manager, Utah Olympic Park, and Thomas
Wadsworth, Utah Development and Construction, addressed the
commission and presented refined information in response to questions
and concerns raised during prior meetings including an update on the
Freestyle Pool operations and Utah Olympic Park public benefits. (6:19
P.M.)
Chris Conebee, Principal, Utah Development and Construction,
provided clarification on the development parcel overlay map. (6:21
P.M.)
Thomas Wadsworth, Utah Development and Construction, reviewed the
land use and zoning tables for commercial use, affordable and
attainable housing, and operational purposes. (6:29 P.M.)
Jamie Kimball, General Manager, Utah Olympic Park, provided an
update on the freestyle pool operations. (6:31 P.M.)
Mr. Hilton provided a summary of the public benefits provided by the
Utah Olympic Park. (6:34 P.M.)
Commission Chair Mooney thanked the applicants for their additional
information and efforts. (6:48 P.M.)
The applicants presented images to further illustrate their proposed
concept. (6:49 P.M.)
Commissioners thanked the applicants for the detailed information
provided in the staff report and asked for clarification on topics such as
the Bear Cub Drive extension and traffic, the benefits of public input and
feedback, changes from a conditional use permit to a low-impact permit,
and the frequency of changes to the agreement. Affordable/attainable
housing agreements were discussed along with major sporting event
venue processes, the need for commercial space, and limiting access
beyond the gate. Commissioners had concerns about what triggers a
public hearing, definition clarifications, the number of people in the park
on a regular day, and post-construction lighting. The applicants, Attorney
Lynda Viti and Planner Laura Kuhrmeyer, responded to the concerns
raised during the lengthy discussion. (6:59 P.M.)
Additional discussion was held on the shift from a conditional use permit
to a low-impact permit, the massing of the hotel, lifts, and ski runs and
continued communication. (7:48 P.M.)
19
Spencer Young made a motion to forward to the Summit County
Council with a positive recommendation the applicant's request to
make several amendments, each outlined in the staff report, to the
Utah Olympic Park Specially Planned Area Develop Agreement,
according to the findings of fact, conclusions of law, and
conditions of approval found in the staff report. Makena Hawley
seconded, and all voted in favor, (7-0). 
5) Approval of Minutes: October 14, 2025, and December 9,
2025. (8:12 P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Draft SBPC Minutes 10.14.25
Attachment: Draft SBPC Minutes 12.09.25
Makena Hawley made a motion to approve the minutes dated
October 14, 2025. Heather Peteroy seconded, and all voted in favor,
(6-0).  Abstain: Tim Jeffrey.
Tim Jeffrey made a motion to approve the minutes dated December
9, 2025. Eric Sagerman seconded, and all voted in favor, (6-0). 
Abstain: Matthew Nagie.
Commission Items (8:13 P.M.)
Commissioners asked for an update on potential retreat dates. Principal
Planner Ray Milliner responded to the question. (8:13 P.M.)
Director Items (8:15 P.M.)
Principal Planner Milliner noted that three commission terms were expiring and
encouraged those members to apply for reappointment. Planner Milliner added
that the Chair and Vice-Chair positions will need to be elected. He concluded
director items by providing an overview of agenda items for the next
commission meeting. (8:15 P.M.)
Adjournment (8:23 P.M.)
Matthew Nagie made a motion to adjourn. Eric Sagerman seconded, and
all voted in favor, (7-0). 
Meeting minutes and recordings appear at summitcountyutah.gov/meetings. When in
the electronic version of the minutes, clicking on the hyperlinked times takes you to
that spot in the meeting recording.
20
MINUTES
SUMMIT COUNTY
Snyderville Basin Planning Commission Meeting
SHELDON RICHINS BUILDING
1885 WEST UTE BOULEVARD, PARK CITY, UT, 84098
TUESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2026
Meeting also conducted via Zoom.
DRAFT
Tyann Mooney
Matthew Nagie
Spencer Young
Heather Peteroy
Eric Sagerman
Lynda Viti
Peter Barnes
Ray Milliner
Mustapha Osman
Amy Price
Jen Chappell
Welcome/Attendance
Work Session (4:32 P.M.)
Work Session discussion - Snyderville Basin General Plan. The purpose
of the work session is to review and discuss potential amendments the
Snyderville Basin General Plan. This item is for discussion and direction
only. No formal action or recommendation will be taken by the Planning
Commission. Ray Milliner, Mustapha Osman County Planners. (4:33 P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Basin Staff Report January 27, 2026.pdf
Senior Planner, Ray Milliner, and Planner, Mustapha Osman, introduced
the draft amendments to the Snyderville Basin General Plan for a work
session discussion and explained that the proposed amendments would
be brought before the Commission over a series of future
meetings. Elements of the plan discussed included Land Use, Housing,
21
Transportation and Connectivity, Economic Development, Natural and
Cultural Resources, Open Space, Community Health &
Recreation, Water Use, Public Facilities and Services, Neighborhood
Plans and Implementation. (4:33 P.M.)
Commissioners asked clarifying questions and provided feedback for
discussion. Planners Milliner, Osman, and Director Barnes responded to
the questions raised and outlined the process moving forward. (4:48
P.M.)
Regular Session (6:12 P.M.)
Public comments for items not on the agenda or pending applications.
(6:12 P.M.)
Commission Chair Mooney opened the meeting for public hearing at
6:12 p.m.
No one came forward to speak.
Commission Chair Mooney closed the meeting for public hearing at 6:12
p.m.
Commission Items (6:13 P.M.)
Commission Chair Mooney asked about the possibility of balancing agenda
items at meetings. Community Development Director, Peter Barnes, responded
to her concern. (6:13 P.M.)
Director Items (6:21 P.M.)
Director Barnes outlined the procedures for the proposed future work sessions.
Commissioners asked additional questions about the process and scheduling.
(6:21 P.M.)
Adjournment (6:26 P.M.)
Eric Sagerman made a motion to adjourn. Matthew Nagie seconded, and
all voted in favor, (5-0). Absent: Makena Hawley, Tim Jeffrey.
Meeting minutes and recordings appear at summitcountyutah.gov/meetings. When in
the electronic version of the minutes, clicking on the hyperlinked times takes you to
that spot in the meeting recording.
22