 
Work Session discussion - Snyderville Basin General Plan. The purpose of the work
session is to review and discuss potential amendments the Snyderville Basin
General Plan. This item is for discussion and direction only. No formal action or
recommendation will be taken by the Planning Commission. Ray Milliner, Mustapha
Osman County Planners. 
 
Public comments for items not on the agenda or pending applications.
AGENDA 
SNYDERVILLE BASIN PLANNING COMMISSION 
Tuesday, January 27, 2026
NOTICE is hereby given that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission will meet
electronically, via Zoom, and at the anchor location of Richins Auditorium
1885 W. Ute Blvd., Park City, UT 84098
(All times listed are general in nature, and are subject to change by the Board Chair)
 
You may attend in person or
 
Join Zoom webinar:
https://summitcountyut.zoom.us/j/98189226475  
OR
To listen by phone only: Dial 1-669-900-9128 or 1-253-215-8782, Webinar ID: 981 8922 6475 
 
4:30 P.M. Work Session
Basin Staff Report January 27, 2026.pdf
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
Commission Items
Director Items
Adjourn
To view staff reports available at the end of the Friday before the meeting please visit
www.summitcounty.org.
 
Individuals needing special accommodations pursuant to the Americans with Disabilities Act regarding this
meeting may contact Vicki Geary, Summit County Community Development Department at (435)336-3123.
1
 Community Development Department 
P.O. Box 128 
60 North Main Street 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
summitcounty.org 
 
  
 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
 
To:   Snyderville Basin Planning Commission 
From:   Ray Milliner, Mustapha Osman 
Date of Meeting: January 27, 2026 
Type of Item:  General Plan Amendment – Work Session 
Process:   Legislative  
 
 
Proposal 
The purpose of this work session is to introduce  the Planning Commission to the draft General 
Plan and provide an overview of  its structure, content and direction. This is a working draft and 
not a final document.  
 
Staff is asking the Commission to review the document at a high level, become familiar with its 
organization, and begin identifying any major questions, themes, or areas that may need 
deeper discussion and analysis.   
 
Background 
The draft plan is a culmination of a two-year planning effort that began with the “Our Summit” 
visioning survey in 2024. That plan established the community’s long-term vision and priorities 
and provided a foundation for the draft document. Throughout 2025, the County conducted 
General Plan Community Open Houses, online surveys, and engagement activities to refine that 
vision, evaluate existing conditions and develop goals, policies and strategies in each element of 
the plan. The draft has been reviewed and commented on by all applicable County departments 
and staff. Most recently, the State mandated Water Element was reviewed and adopted by the 
County Council on December 17, 2025, and has been incorporated into this draft.  
 
The proposed process is as follows: 
 
1. Provide the Planning  Commission with a draft General Plan for initial review and 
familiarity.  
2. Conduct a series of work sessions to review each chapter in detail.  
3. Revise the draft based on Commission feedback. 
4. Hold public hearings to gather public input.  
5. Forward a recommendation to the County Council for the full document.  
 
2
2 
Beginning in February, staff will present individual chapters of the General Plan at successive 
meetings to allow for a more detailed review and discussion.  
D
raft timeline 
• F
ebruary 10, 2026, Work Session: Chapter 1: Introduction and Chapter 2: Land Use
• February 24, 2026, Work Session: Chapter 3: Housing and Chapter 4: Transportation and
Connectivity
• March 10, 2026, Work Session: Chapter 5: Economic Development and Chapter 6: Natural
and Cultural Resources.
• March 24, 2026, Work Session: Chapter 7: Open Space and Chapter 8: Community Health
and Recreation
• April 14, 2026, Work Session : Chapter 9 : Water and Chapter 10 : Public Facilities and
Services
• April 28, 2026, Work Session: Future Land Use Map
• May 12, 2026, Public hearing: Full document.
Recommendation 
Staff recommend the Planning Commission review the document at a high level, become 
familiar with its organization, and begin identifying any major questions, themes, or areas that 
may need deeper discussion and analysis.   
Exhibits 
A:
 Draft Snyderville Basin General Plan 
3
   
 
   
 
Snyderville Basin General Plan  
Adopted by Ordinance X 
Date 
Written By:  
 Planning Staff:  
  X 
 Snyderville Basin Planning Commission:  
  X 
 Summit County Council:  
  X 
 Support From:  
  X County Departments 
Table of Contents 
1. Introduction 
What is a General Plan 
How to Use the Plan 
  Summit County Context  
   History of Snyderville Basin & Planning 
   Demographics  
  Community Vision 
Community Engagement for General Plans 
Guiding Principles of General Plan 
2. Land Use 
Existing Conditions (data, maps, challenges, list of neighborhoods) 
Community Engagement Feedback 
Future Land Use Maps 
Land Use Goals, Objectives, Policies, & Strategies 
 
4
   
 
   
 
3. Housing  
Existing Conditions (data, maps) 
Community Engagement Feedback 
Potential Map that identifies infill areas/places for new housing 
Housing Goals, Objectives, Policies, & Strategies 
4. Transportation and Connectivity 
Existing Conditions (data, maps) 
Community Engagement Feedback 
Transportation Goals, Objectives, Policies, & Strategies 
5. Economic Development 
Existing Conditions 
Community Engagement Feedback 
Potential Maps  
Economic Development Goals, Objectives, Policies, & Strategies  
6. Natural and Cultural Resources 
Existing Conditions (data, maps) 
Community Engagement Feedback 
Natural and Cultural Resources Goals, Objectives, Policies, & Strategies 
7. Open Space 
Existing Conditions 
Community Engagement Feedback 
Open Space Goals, Objectives, Policies, & Strategies 
8. Community Health and Recreation 
Existing Conditions 
Community Engagement Feedback 
Community Health and Recreation Goals, Objectives, Policies & Strategies 
9. Water Use 
Existing Conditions (data, maps) 
Community Engagement Feedback 
Water Use Goals, Objectives, Policies, & Strategies 
10. Public Facilities and Services 
Existing Conditions (data, maps) 
5
   
 
   
 
Community Engagement Feedback 
Potential Maps 
Public Facilities and Services Goals, Objectives, Policies, & Strategies 
11. Neighborhood Plans 
Existing Neighborhoods Overview & Map 
Neighborhood 1 (linked?) 
 Existing Conditions 
 Engagement 
 Future LU 
12. Implementation 
Summary of how we can achieve some of this 
Timeline for Next Steps?  
Budgeting & Other Funding Sources 
Summary Table that shows overlap with other plans/County efforts 
  
6
   
 
   
 
Chapter 1: Introduction 
What is a General Plan 
 
A general plan is a long-range policy document that guides the physical development of a community. In 
Utah, general plans are required by the Land Use, Development and Management Act (LUDMA) and 
must address the present and future needs of the County related to growth and development in 
unincorporated areas.  
 
The purpose of the general plan is to make land use planning clear, efficient, and predictable by 
identifying the types and locations of development that are appropriate.  
The Snyderville Basin General Plan (General Plan) is an advisory, non-binding document used by County 
decision makers to guide land use decisions, coordinate orderly development, and advance the County’s 
vision and goals.  
  
Planning Authority 
This General Plan is a legally adopted policy document prepared in accordance with Utah 
State law. Utah Code 17-79-403 identifies the required elements of a county general plan, 
while LUDMA allows flexibility in how these elements are organized and permits the 
inclusion of additional topics of local importance.  
 
The General Plan is intended to be a living document. As conditions change due to 
development patterns, new information, or evolving community needs, amendments may 
be necessary to keep the Plan current and effective. Amendments may be initiated by the 
County or requested by the public.  
 
7
   
 
   
 
In addition to policies, the General Plan includes implementation strategies and 
recommendations to support Plan goals. The Implementation section of the document is 
designed to be reviewed and updated periodically to track progress and identify new or 
revised actions as needed.  
 
How to Use the Plan 
 
Following the Introduction, this General Plan is organized into chapters addressing specific 
elements, including Land Use, Housing, Transportation and Connectivity, Economic 
Development, Natural and Cultural Resources, Open Space, Community Health and 
Recreation, Sustainable Development and Water Use, and Public Facilities and Services. 
Each chapter contains a statement on the existing conditions relating to the element, the 
results of community engagement, and goals, objectives, policies, and strategies for each 
element.  
 
Goals express the community’s desired outcomes. Objectives translate those goals into 
more specific targets. Policies provide direction for future land use and development 
decisions. 
 
A separate chapter addresses Neighborhood Plans. Neighborhood Planning Areas are 
established to protect existing neighborhood character and support cohesive long range 
planning, including: Bitner Road, Canyons, Central Basin, East Basin, Highland Estates, 
Jeremy Ranch/Pinebrook, Kimball Junction, North Mountain, Old Ranch Road, Quinn’s 
Junction, Rasmussen Road, Silver Creek, The Summit, Trailside, Utah Olympic Park, and 
West Mountain. Each Neighborhood Planning area includes a Future Land Use map that 
illustrates preferred land use patterns. The maps are not zoning maps and are intended to 
show general direction. They are flexible and may evolve over time as conditions and 
community needs change.  
 
All neighborhood planning areas are guided by the goals, objectives and policies of this 
Plan, while also allowing for unique design considerations and neighborhood specific 
priorities.  
 
The final chapter, implementation, identifies actions to carry out the Plan, including 
responsibilities, timing, and priorities, to ensure the community’s vision is translated into 
practice.  
 
Summit County Context  
 
The Snyderville Basin is located north of Park City and serves as a transition area between 
urban development, mountain resort communities, and the County’s rural and open 
landscapes. Its proximity to regional transportation corridors and recreation amenities has 
made it a center for both residential growth and commercial activity, while also placing 
increasing pressure and land infrastructure and natural resources.  
8
   
 
   
 
 
The Basin is characterized by a diverse pattern of development that includes established 
neighborhoods, resort areas, commercial centers, and extensive preserved open space. 
Kimball Junction functions as the primary commercial and service hub for the Basin and 
surrounding communities. Steep terrain, wildlife habitat, and large areas of protected land 
significantly shape where development can and cannot occur.  
 
As growth continues, the Basin faces the challenge of accommodating development in a 
way that maintains community character, protects environmental resources, improves 
housing options, and supports efficient transportation and infrastructure systems. The 
General Plan provides a framework for balancing these competing interest while guiding 
future development toward locations and forms that are consistent with the long-term 
vision for the Snyderville Basin.  
 
Planning in the Snyderville Basin 
 
Summit County implemented its first Development Code in 1977, applying to the entire 
County. In 1985, the County was divided into two planning districts: the Snyderville Basin 
and Eastern Summit County. Each district has its own General Plan, development code, 
and planning commission. The two General Plans are designed to collaborate to promote 
regional coordination across the County. 
 
The Snyderville Basin Development Code (Development Code) and zoning maps have 
undergone three major revisions. While both the previous and current versions of the 
Development Code include stringent zoning standards, much of the development in the 
Snyderville Basin occurred through Development Agreements, Consent Agreements, and 
Settlement Agreements resulting from litigation. As a result, existing development patterns 
and entitlements do not always align with current zoning regulations.  
 
The previous General Plan provided guidance for new development. This updated General 
Plan builds on that foundation by reflecting current conditions and strengthening policy 
direction to more clearly guide future growth, improve consistency, and proactively 
manage change in the Snyderville Basin.  
 
Demographics 
As of 2024, Summit County’s year-round population was estimated at 42,824 residents (United States 
Census Bureau); 21,206 residents are located in the unincorporated Snyderville Basin. Historically, the 
County’s population has increased, but since 2022, the population has started to decrease by an average 
of ~200 persons for the last three years (United States Census Bureau and Kem C. Gardner Policy 
Institute). The median age of Summit County residents is 41.8 years and is among the oldest in Utah. The 
average age in Utah is 31.3 years.  
 
9
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
10
   
 
   
 
 
Source: 
 
Park City School District annual school enrollment has been decreasing since 2017. 
 
11
   
 
   
 
As of 2024, Summit County has 35,801 jobs. This includes QCEW (Quarterly Census of Employment and 
Wages) Employees, Non-QCEW Employees, and Self-Employed. If Extended-Proprietors (jobs that are not 
a person's primary job) are included, the number of jobs would increase to 53,547, meaning Summit 
County produces more jobs than it has people. The number of jobs is projected to increase by ~660 
every year. Out of the 35,801 jobs, X,XXX workers do not live in Summit County.  
The median household income in the Snyderville Basin is $174,872 (Source: Esri forecasts for 2024 and 
2029. U.S. Census Bureau 2020 decennial Census data). The Governor’s Office of Planning and Budget 
(2024) estimates that Summit County’s population will grow to 50,000 + by 2035. 
Community Engagement for General Plan 
 
Prior to updating the General Plan, Summit County underwent a year-long process to build 
consensus around a vision for the future of Summit County as a whole. A consultant was 
hired to engage community members on a variety of topics and to prepare strategies that 
could aid in achieving the vision. This plan is called Our Summit Vision and Strategic Plan  
(Our Summit). 
 
The resulting vision statement, as adopted by the Summit County Council, is as follows: 
Summit County embraces growth thoughtfully and navigates change with integrity by 
upholding community identities through proactive planning.  Decisions that affect our 
natural resources, lifestyle, unique identities, communities, and future built environments 
are made responsibly to ensure communities remain affordable, healthy, and inclusive to 
current and future generations.   
 
 
In addition to the vision statement, Our Summit identified five objectives based on the 
community values that emerged from the visioning, which include the following:  
 
• Manage Natural Resources 
• Promote Healthy Living 
• Preserve Unique Identities 
• Create Inclusive Communities 
• Grow Responsibly 
 
Across the three phases of participation, there were approximately 9,500 community 
members that contributed their thoughts in shaping the vision. Over the course of the ten-
month engagement period, there were 16 online questionnaires, quick polls, photo 
contests, "tag the map" activities, 10 open houses, three in-depth educational sessions, 
Our Summit Ambassadors (OSA) meetings, and 10 community events.  
 
One of the next steps following the completion of Our Summit was to update the General 
Plan. Although Our Summit touches on many topics relevant to this General Plan, much of 
the data was high-level and spread across both planning districts in the County. There 
12
   
 
   
 
remained a need to dive into more detail to help inform policies and strategies specific to 
the Snyderville Basin. Building off Our Summit, Summit County entered an engagement 
period for the General Plan, which sought to refine themes and expand upon strategies that 
can help achieve the County-wide vision.  
 
Engagement included one in-person open house, one virtual open house, two online 
surveys, one virtual chat-with-a-planner session, an online comment submission option, 
and guidance from the General Plan Advisory Committee, made up of interested 
community members and planning commissioners. Where possible, the General Plan 
engagement continued to use the five objectives from the visioning for consistency and 
ease in digging deeper into specific topics. There were X total responses between all the 
engagement opportunities.  
 
In addition to the specific outreach for the General Plan, Summit County was cautious to 
not over-engage the community following such a large outreach event like Our Summit. 
Where possible, the Planning Department coordinated with other engagement 
opportunities in the County. The Summit County Health Department was simultaneously 
conducting the quinquennial Community Health Assessment, and shared relevant data 
points to the Planning Department to inform the General Plan. Summit County began 
updating its Active Transportation Plan and also started a county-wide arts and culture plan 
during the engagement period for this General Plan.  Additionally, Park City Municipal was 
simultaneously updating its general plan. Summit County and Park City shared relevant 
data to better align the general plans.  
 
The feedback collected from Our Summit and the General Plan-specific engagement 
opportunities have been considered in the policies and strategies within this document. 
Detailed summaries of County-initiated engagement responses and findings can be found 
in Appendix X. Particularly relevant data has been highlighted in appropriate chapters.  
 
Generally, community feedback indicated a high desire to preserve open spaces and 
maintain or improve high quality natural resources. The desire for open spaces were 
contradicted by the desire for more availability and types of housing without encouraging 
sprawl. Respondents encouraged redevelopment in areas with existing infrastructure, and 
for new commercial areas to be developed with more housing. There was a strong distaste 
for traffic and a desire for more transportation options to reduce congestion on roadways.  
 
Overall, community feedback highlighted the need for comprehensive, regional 
approaches to planning to balance the scenic and environmental quality of the area with 
the need of ensuring that the community can remain affordable, functional, and reflective 
of the cultures of those that support the economy.  
 
  
13
   
 
   
 
Chapter 2: Land Use 
 
The Land Use Element establishes the framework for how land is used, developed, and 
conserved in the SNyderville Basin. It guides zoning, development decisions, and 
infrastructure planning in a manner that balances growth, community needs, and the 
protection of rural character, open spaces, and natural resources. The policies in this 
chapter provide direction for where development should occur, the form it should take, and 
how land use decisions support the long-term vision of the Basin.  
 
The broader regional context, existing conditions, and community engagement findings 
that inform the Land Use Element are described in Chapter 1. This Chapter builds upon 
that foundation by translating community values and planning priorities into land use goals 
and policies.  
 
Community engagement consistently emphasized the importance of protecting open 
space and rural character, improving housing options, managing traffic, and supporting 
vibrant, well designed commercial areas.  
 
Existing Conditions  
% Land Coverage 
% Open Space/recreation, % Residential, % Commercial, % Industrial, % Resort Area 
Existing Zones & % of land area 
Existing Development Agreements 
Existing Entitlements 
 
Land Use Goals, Objectives, Policies and Strategies 
GOAL: Promote sustainable land use planning principles that preserve Critical Lands, maintain 
neighborhood character, protect the economic base, prevent sprawl, enhance climate resiliency, and 
provide efficient delivery of services. 
OBJECTIVE A: Encourage the creation of mixed-use areas and neighborhoods that are connected 
by open spaces and multi-modal transportation systems. 
 
Policy 2.1: Create neighborhood master plans for each Neighborhood Planning Area 
identified in Chapter X of this Plan.  
 
Strategy 2.1.1: Assess each Neighborhood Planning Area’s current conditions, 
including, but not limited to, land uses, housing availability, environmental 
conditions, and transportation to determine a priority list for the creation of 
neighborhood master plans. 
14
   
 
   
 
 
Strategy 2.1.2: After the initial assessment described in Strategy 2.1.1, begin the 
process of creating neighborhood master plans based on the priority list.  
 
Policy 2.2: Identify specific areas where development should and should not occur and 
zone them accordingly. 
 
Strategy 2.2.1: Establish clear criteria in the Development Code that guides 
where development should be encouraged or discouraged in anticipation of 
rezoning specific areas. 
 
Policy 2.3: Do not approve any new entitlements beyond those permitted by the 
Development Code until such time that existing entitlements are significantly exhausted, 
unless the County legislative body first determines that: 
 
a. a compelling countervailing public interest, specifically identified in the 
General Plan exists and cannot be reasonably satisfied without expanding 
one or more entitlement(s); 
 
b. such new entitlement(s) do not simply result in an incidental benefit to the 
public interest, but rather such entitlement(s) are intended primarily to 
promote such compelling countervailing public interest, and 
 
c.  any new entitlement(s) are consistent with the Neighborhood Planning Area 
Plans and the General Plan’s Future Land Use Maps, as amended. 
 
Policy 2.4: Collaborate with local, state, and federal agencies to create a multi-modal 
transportation network to support desired development patterns.  
 
OBJECTIVE B: Incentivize human scale, compact, dense developments defined by contiguous 
open spaces and multi-modal transportation, as well as a predictable process to achieve this goal 
through clear regulations in the Development Code. 
 
Policy 2.5: Explore future smart growth strategies, which may include land acquisitions, 
conservation easements, and clustered development principles. Each strategy should 
include clear performance standards and design flexibility that is targeted to specific 
mixed-use areas. 
 
Strategy 2.5.1: Review the Development Code provisions related to the 
Neighborhood Mixed Use Zone, Master Planned Development process, and the 
development standards to ensure current best practices are being utilized.   
 
Policy 2.6: Establish reasonable development design principles to promote a 
quality built environment ideal for living in, working in, and/or visiting. 
15
   
 
   
 
 
Strategy 2.6.1: Update the architectural standards in the Development Code.  
 
Strategy 2.6.2: Evaluate the development standards in the Development Code 
and revise them as needed to align with current best practices. 
 
Strategy 2.6.3: Evaluate current infill requirements to support development in 
suitable areas. 
 
OBJECTIVE C: Create Zoning Districts that match existing development and/or 
promote desired future development. 
 
Policy 2.7: Create residential zoning districts for neighborhoods that do not currently 
comply with existing zoning development standards without creating more entitlements. 
 
Strategy 2.7.1: Create an existing residential zone district that recognizes those 
subdivisions that were established prior to the existing zoning regulations.  
 
Policy 2.8: In areas previously governed by Development Agreements, shift from 
Development Agreement requirements to zoning standards. 
 
Strategy 2.8.1: Create a land use table for the current Town Center and Resort 
Center zoning districts or rezone these development areas to a predictable land-
use designation. 
 
Policy 2.9: Encourage the creation of new mixed-use, inclusive neighborhoods within 
existing development areas and/or areas designated on the future land use maps as 
mixed-use.  
 
OBJECTIVE D: Ensure future development is well designed and appropriately located. 
 
Policy 2.10: Future commercial developments should be located in existing commercial 
areas, resort centers, town centers, mixed-use areas, or areas designated mixed-use on 
the Future Land Use Maps.  
 
Policy 2.11: Within defined mixed-use areas, a range of uses should be considered that 
are appropriate for each individual location and neighborhood, and may include small 
scale retail, offices, business and personal services, schools, and parks designed to meet 
the needs of the neighborhood. 
 
Policy 2.12: Mixed-use areas should contain an appropriate mix of residential and 
commercial development as well as recreational opportunities that provide connections 
to existing and future community trails and transit facilities. 
 
16
   
 
   
 
Policy 2.13: Any land use proposal that has the potential to significantly impact the 
existing neighborhood character should be analyzed within the context of the 
neighborhood planning area. This may result in the creation of a neighborhood master 
plan or require modifications to an existing master plan. 
 
Policy 2.14: Encourage locally based and neighborhood commercial businesses. 
 
Strategy 2.14.1: Review the Development Code provisions relating to allowed 
and prohibited uses and update as necessary. 
 
Strategy 2.14.2: Ensure any standards related to neighborhood commercial uses 
prioritize and maintain the residential nature of the neighborhood.  
 
Policy 2.15: Review regional commercial uses for their impacts to existing businesses, 
traffic/parking impacts, and architectural design. Regional 
commercial uses should be limited to existing commercial development areas and/or 
future designated redevelopment nodes. 
 
Policy 2.16: Identify additional areas for light industrial/service commercial activities to 
meet the needs of local businesses and development activities.    
 
Strategy 2.16.1: Collaborate with the Planning Commission and Summit County 
Council to assess their support for expanding Service Commercial zones. 
 
Policy 2.17: Minimize inappropriate site layout practices, large parking lot surfaces, 
artificial lighting, non-conforming signs, and building design. 
 
Strategy 2.17.1: Hold quarterly meetings with County Departments to ensure 
continued communication and implementation of best practices during the 
development review process. 
 
Policy 2.18: Strongly discourage roadside or strip commercial development where there 
is continuous or intermittent linear development generally one store deep, one or more 
access points for separate properties and with highly visible parking located between the 
road and the building. 
 
Strategy 2.18.1: Create development standards that encourage more compact, 
and connected commercial centers rather than linear, scattered developments. 
 
Policy 2.19: Discourage large scale commercial “one story” structures. 
 
Strategy 2.19.1: Create development standards that limit allowed building 
footprints. 
 
17
   
 
   
 
Policy 2.20: Promote environmentally sustainable practices and establish clear, 
consistent standards for all types of development, including commercial landscaping, 
energy-efficient lighting, appropriately sized and styled signage, and well-planned, 
accessible parking design.  
 
Strategy 2.20.1: Work with the Summit County Sustainability Department to 
ensure that current Development Code regulations are up to date with best 
practices for sustainable development.  
 
Strategy 2.20.2: Prioritize low-impact development techniques (e.g. permeable 
paving, rain gardens, vegetated buffers) for stormwater management.  
 
Strategy 2.20.3: Enforce erosion and sediment control measures during 
construction. 
 
OBJECTIVE E: Prevent the creation of new low-density suburban dispersed (e.g. non-clustered) 
residential development. 
 
Policy 2.21: New residential developments should be compact, connected, and 
incorporated whenever possible into mixed-use/transit friendly areas. 
 
Policy 2.22: New residential development should be located within existing and/or 
designated future redevelopment areas. 
 
OBJECTIVE F: Use public infrastructure to direct development to desired growth areas. 
 
Policy 2.23: All new development should utilize public water and sewer systems and be 
accessed by public roads and connected by multimodal transit systems. 
 
Policy 2.24: All public infrastructure should be planned to direct future growth to 
existing development areas and/or future designated redevelopment nodes. 
 
Policy 2.25: Work to ensure that all local policy documents relating to water, 
sewer, and road infrastructure are consistent with the objectives of this Plan. 
 
OBJECTIVE G: Ensure the preservation, conservation, and restoration of open spaces, agricultural 
areas, and Critical Lands. 
 
Policy 2.26: Maintain and keep a current map of preserved, protected, conserved, and 
deed restricted open space and Critical Lands. 
 
Strategy 2.26.1: Work with the County Lands and Natural Resources Department 
to map preserved open spaces and Critical Lands.  
 
18
   
 
   
 
Policy 2.27: Work to protect open lands for the purposes of preserving scenic viewsheds, 
preventing the fragmentation of open lands, preserving wildlife habitat and corridors, 
protecting watersheds, and providing significant buffers between developed areas.  
 
Policy 2.28: Utilize open space to intentionally connect communities by providing shared 
areas for active and passive use. 
 
Policy 2.29: Review the potential of creating open-space zoning districts for 
conservation, wildlife, and/or public recreation purposes. 
 
Policy 2.30: Review new development for potential environmental impacts and 
to demonstrate sensitivity to the natural environment including preservation of 
viewsheds, trees and native vegetation, water quality, and wildlife corridors. 
 
OBJECTIVE H: Preserve the Snyderville Basin’s working farms and ranches and remaining 
unfragmented landscapes. 
 
Policy 2.31: Work with property owners to maintain working farms and ranches as a 
viable industry. 
 
Strategy 2.31.1: Develop land use policies that prioritize agriculture and 
ranching.  
 
Strategy 2.31.2: Create an agritourism program to support the continued use of 
the agriculture. 
 
OBEJCTIVE I: Ensure a range of housing alternatives in self-contained, well-designed 
communities. 
 
Policy 2.32: Support a variety of housing types. 
 
Policy 2.33: Support the development of viable opportunities for affordable housing and 
home ownership. 
 
Policy 2.34: Encourage the development/redevelopment of mixed-use neighborhoods 
designed to protect the natural environment and connect to 
community open spaces and existing trail networks. 
 
Policy 2.35: Incorporate integrated conservation design to preserve portions of the 
property for shared public open space through regulations in the 
Development Code. 
 
Policy 2.36: Encourage alternatives to the conventional pattern of low-density dispersed 
single-family lot subdivisions for example by: 
19
   
 
   
 
 
Strategy 2.36.1: Allow the same number of units as allowed by current zoning, 
but in a denser development on a portion of the property. 
 
Strategy 2.36.2: Encourage the strategic sales of small portions of agricultural 
land in order to retain ranching, farming, or public open space on the remainder 
of the lands. 
 
Strategy 2.36.3: Adopt standards in the Development Code that incentivizes 
long-term rentals over short-term rentals. 
 
OBJECTIVE J: Improve or eliminate the negative impacts of legal non-conforming uses. 
 
Policy 2.37: Support the elimination or improvement of non-conforming uses in 
order to bring properties into conformance and to eliminate land use conflicts. 
 
Policy 2.38: Support the conversion of non-conforming uses to legal uses or to other 
uses that have reduced impacts. 
 
OBJECTIVE K: Support programs that encourage the reduction of solid waste and ensure solid 
waste is managed in a manner that minimizes environmental impacts. 
 
Policy 2.39: Work closely with landowners and other applicable agencies to implement 
strategies that encourage the diversion of solid waste from local landfills.  
 
Strategy 2.39.1: Support increased education and communication with 
landowners and business owners regarding solid waste impacts and recycling 
benefits.  
 
Future Land Use Maps 
Future LU Map for entirety of county.  
Explanation of why we have identified certain areas for future land uses. 
 
  
20
   
 
   
 
Chapter 3: Housing  
The Housing Element is an integral component of the General Plan as providing safe, attainable, and 
varied housing options. It is critical for long-term economic and community health. This Element guides 
future plans for developing and redeveloping areas to include new housing.  
 
Context 
The Snyderville Basin has had a growing number of jobs, but a decreasing number of workers living 
within the community. Lack of new housing development and rising costs has forced many out of the 
community and creates a barrier to entry for new members of the workforce. Providing affordable and 
attainable housing for the workforce is essential. A household should not pay more than 30-40 percent 
of their gross income for housing costs. New housing development is often met with disapproval from 
the community and politicians, and Development Code requirements for infill and affordable housing 
create ongoing feasibility challenges for developing new housing.   
Existing Conditions 
Housing Numbers  
Total Number of Housing Units in the Snyderville Basin = 10,537 
• Single Unit = 70% 
• Multi-Unit = 28% 
• Mobile Home = 1% 
• Boat, RV, Van, etc.  = 0% 
• Occupied: = 7,876 
o Owner Occupied = 6,368 (~60% of total housing) 
o Renter Occupied = 1,508 (~14% of total housing) 
• Vacant = 2,661 (~25% of total housing)  
o Short Term Rentals = ~25% of total vacant housing in Summit County is used as short-
term rental. Data is currently unavailable to identify the number of rentals between the 
Snyderville Basin and Eastern Summit County. Summit County is working on acquiring 
software which will be able to collect short-term rental data.  
• Most common type of home built in Summit County is 4+ bedrooms.  
o 2-person household is most dominant.  
o 1-person household is the fastest growing.  
• Median Home Sales Price in Summit County as of May of 2024 = ~$1.3M  
21
   
 
   
 
• Housing Tenure = Majority of people moved in when the number of Building Permits was 
highest.  
 
Sources: United States Census Bureau, Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute, Lightcast, and ArcGIS Business. 
Challenges 
Summit County faces unique challenges including inflated housing prices caused by investor-owned real 
estate, governmental policies, non-governmental practices, age cohort changes, labor needs, and 
affordability.  
 
Investor-owned real estate can significantly impact housing markets by driving up home prices, reducing 
available inventory for traditional buyers, potentially leading to higher rents, and sometimes impacting 
neighborhood quality due to less investment in property maintenance. This is especially concerning 
when large institutional investors purchase large quantities of homes, often with the primary goal of 
renting them out. This can create challenges for first-time homebuyers and contribute to concerns about 
affordability in certain areas. Investor-owned real estate accounts for approximately half of all housing 
stock in the Snyderville Basin. The number of vacant units has increased every year.  
Government policies and regulations can play a role in managing the impact of investor activity in the 
housing market. Snyderville Basin zoning does not match the reality on the ground. Most of the 
developments within the Snyderville Basin are a result of negotiated development agreements or lawsuit 
settlements which do not meet the underlying zoning requirements. The current zoning of the 
Snyderville Basin does not provide opportunities to accommodate the housing needs.   
Snyderville Basin currently has three residential zones; 
• Rural Residential – 1 unit per 20 acres 
• Hillside Stewardship – 1 unit per 30 acres 
• Mountain Remote – 1 unit per 100 acres 
22
   
 
   
 
Nongovernmental constraints include high interest rates, high construction costs and neighborhood 
opposition to new housing development. 
Summit County’s population has been decreasing by ~200 people annually while employment has been 
increasing by ~660 but the housing pool has not significantly increased. Due to the lack of growth in the 
housing pool, the affordable and attainable housing needs deficit is growing rapidly. Since the creation of 
the Moderate Income Housing Plan in 2022, Summit County has added 631 units into the density pool 
(Source: Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute). Of the 631 units, XX are deed restricted. HOW DOES CANYON’S 
EMPLOYEE HOUSING COME INTO PLAY??? DISCUSS WITH STAFF. 
Summit County Housing Types  
Single Unit = 70% 
Multi Unit = 28% 
Mobile Home = 1% 
Boat, RV, Van, etc.  = 0% 
https://censusreporter.org/profiles/05000US49043-summit-county-ut/ 
Community Engagement Feedback 
• Over 50% of all responses indicated that they would like only a Little Growth or No Growth at All 
• 62% of participants indicated that there needs to be More Attainable Housing  
• 55% of participants indicated that there needs to be More Single Family Housing 
• 40% of responses indicated that development of all kinds hurts open space and the natural 
environment, but, when asked what the community considers “development”, only 5% said their 
own home. 
• Nearly 70% of respondents indicated that incentivizing redevelopment in strategic areas near 
public facilities, transit, trails, and other services was an appropriate or very appropriate 
strategy. Similarly, 66% of responses to a separate question indicated that existing commercial 
areas should be redeveloped to include more housing. 
Potential Map that identifies infill areas/places for new housing 
INSERT FLUM(S) ONCE FINALIZED 
Moderate Income Housing Goals, Objectives, Policies and Implementation 
Measures 
INTRODUCTION 
Rather than being monolithic, moderate-income housing is a multifaceted challenge for Summit County. 
It is tied closely to a variety of Snyderville Basin challenges including extremely high median housing 
costs; traffic congestion and legacy transportation issues; availability of sufficient local laborers; business 
challenges due to lack of access to labor; an increasingly non-diverse community; a shrinking number of 
full- time residents with long-term community and generational ties; increasing environmental 
23
   
 
   
 
degradation due to increasing development pressures; concerns about sustainability of air, land, and 
water natural resources; and the critical need to manage and limit rapid growth in a County that seeks to 
preserve open spaces, agricultural and cultural heritage (collectively, “Critical Concerns”). Accordingly, 
creating standards and strategies concerning moderate-income housing in this Chapter would be 
incomplete, ineffective, and potentially harmful to the vision and goals of this General Plan as well as the 
County Council’s vision, values, and strategic goals without carefully evaluating the impacts of any such 
standards and strategies on the Critical Concerns to determine if they will aggravate or mitigate and 
provide solutions to those Critical Concerns. All such standards and strategies and the Critical Concerns 
should continually be evaluated given the dynamic nature of growth in and on the borders of the County. 
The Summit County Manager, relevant staff as determined by the County Manager, and the County 
Council should regularly assess the County’s moderate-income housing needs and seek to articulate 
where such housing is most appropriate and for whom the need is greatest at any given moment always 
taking into careful consideration the Critical Concerns (“Moderate-Income Housing Assessment”). A 
priority of any such assessment should seek to identify if housing challenges are creating significant labor 
shortages in critical areas such as law enforcement, emergency medical services, education, doctors and 
nurses and other health care professionals, and local government workforce. In addition, the Moderate-
Income Housing Assessment should examine the needs of long-term resident seniors seeking to age in 
place in the County, vulnerable populations, as well as the County’s tourism industry’s workforce. With 
respect to tourism workforce, any strategies developed in this Chapter 6.1 should seek to require major 
employers to bear some of the burden of providing employees with housing opportunities as well as 
reasonable wages that take into account the high housing costs in resort counties much like the 
difference in wages paid in rural Utah compared to San Francisco, California. 
External influences also need to be part of the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment, such as whether 
nightly rentals are removing long-term housing from the available housing capacity with a result of 
hollowing out formerly well-established neighborhoods, particularly outside of resort cores. Such 
assessment should consider any moderate-income housing permitted, platted, commenced and/or built 
since the prior Moderate-Income Housing Assessment. Careful consideration of where to locate housing 
is a fundamental question the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment needs to examine in each instance 
with a focus on the Critical Concerns. For example, building or incentivizing affordable housing in the 
Snyderville Basin for County workforce that work primarily in County offices in Coalville requires 
commuting, which the moderate-income housing plan should seek to reduce. In addition, approving a 
large ratio of market rate housing to obtain a smaller ratio of affordable housing exacerbates the dearth 
of affordable housing given the additional services and workers required to service the market rate 
housing, and should be avoided. 
The critical questions of each Moderate-Income Housing Assessment should include: for whom, ideal 
location(s), transit and transportation access, trails access, and access to services to reduce commuting 
and car trips, as well an assessment of the state of each of the Critical Concerns. Those preparing the 
Moderate-Income Housing Assessment need to include specific metrics that are transparent, effective, 
and easy to understand that can be used to provide of positive or negative impacts that may be used by 
the County to adjust the goals and strategies contained in this Chapter 6.1. 
24
   
 
   
 
With respect to any and all analyses and changes to land use regulations contained in this Chapter 6.1, 
the County should carefully consider the positive and negative impacts on each of the Critical Concerns 
to make sure any such changes are likely to reduce deficits identified in the Moderate-Income Housing 
Assessment and do not result in unintended consequences that negatively impact the Critical Concerns. 
Moderate income housing is defined as: “Housing occupied or reserved for occupancy by households 
with a gross household income equal to or less than 80% of the median gross income for households of 
the same size in the county in which the housing is located.” However, given that the median gross 
income for the County is substantially higher than the national average, consideration should be given to 
requiring moderate-income housing that is targeted to lower median gross income depending upon the 
intended solutions sought as identified in the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment. 
GOAL: Provide moderate-income housing opportunities that address the moderate-income housing 
needs identified in the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment, as updated in accordance with the 
Introduction of this Chapter. Due to already aggressive market rate housing growth pressures, it is 
essential that moderate-income housing does not come as a trade-off for additional market rate 
housing that may ultimately increase the moderate-income housing deficit due to the additional 
impacts created by the market rate housing and coincident infrastructure, services, and other needs 
that generate requirements for additional workforce. The primary goal should be meaningful 
reductions in existing deficits identified in the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment.  
OBJECTIVE A: Develop strategies to facilitate an adequate supply of moderate-income housing to reduce 
the identified deficits of housing in the Snyderville Basin for various moderate and low income groups 
living, working, or desiring to work in the Snyderville Basin, all as identified and prioritized in the 
Moderate-Income Housing Assessment, as updated, while minimizing negative impacts on the Critical 
Concerns.  
The County shall measure demand and the County’s progress toward meeting such demand through 
annual reporting, consistent with the requirements of Utah law. 
GOAL: Rezone for densities necessary to facilitate the production of moderate income housing. (Utah 
Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(A)) 
  Policy 3.1: Identify and implement a wide range of strategies to increase housing   
 densities and diversity in appropriate locations. Implementation measures are as follows:  
Implementation Measure 3.1a: Annually review, and amend as necessary, the 
Development Code moderate income housing provisions relating to the Neighborhood 
Mixed Use Zone, Town Center Zone, and Resort Center Zone as necessary to meet the 
goals and strategies of this Chapter. 
Implementation Measure 3.1b: Commence a study to determine the   
suitability of using one or a portion of various County owned properties for moderate 
income housing, within wo years of approval of the Moderate Income Housing Plan, to 
meet specific needs and deficits identified in the Moderate- Income Housing 
25
   
 
   
 
Assessment. Such study should take into consideration the Moderate-Income Housing 
Assessment as well as other important County needs and uses for such properties. 
Properties found suitable and appropriate for moderate income housing development 
should be considered for moderate income housing to meet deficits identified in the 
Moderate-Income Housing Assessment but in all instances any study must make findings 
concerning the impacts on Critical Concerns. No County property acquired as public 
open space or on which conservation assessments have been granted shall be 
considered for the purposes contemplated herein.  
Implementation Measure 3.1c: Annually review the current mixed-use zoning and 
density to determine whether the Moderate- Income Housing Assessment indicates that 
additional zones or rezones for higher density or moderate income residential 
development in commercial or mixed use zones, commercial centers, or employment 
centers re required to achieve the purposes of this Section 3.1. 
Implementation Measure 3.1d: Annually, after the approval of the Summit County 
Moderate Income Housing Plan by the State of Utah, the Planning Commission should: 
1) Review the General Plan to identify, plan, and possibly create additional 
neighborhood master planned development and/or redevelopment areas, if and 
as necessary, to relieve deficits identified in the Moderate- Income Housing 
Assessment, as updated, in accordance with this Chapter 3.1, and thereafter 
amend the General Plan accordingly. Note that such review should take into 
account such areas that the County has already identified in the Snyderville 
Basin as well as in Eastern Summit County; and 
2) Review the Future Land Use Maps in Chapter 9 of the General Plan to identify 
and define specific densities that would be appropriate in mixed use areas to 
facilitate the deficits identified in the Moderate- Income Housing Assessment 
with careful consideration of negative and positive impacts on the Critical 
Concerns.  
Implementation Measure 3.1e: Within two years of the approval of the Summit County 
Moderate Income Housing Plan by the State of Utah, the Planning Commission should 
prepare and submit to the County Council an analysis of the benefits of creating a 
moderate income housing zone district to address the deficits identified in the 
Moderate-Income Housing Assessment, with careful consideration of negative and 
positive impacts on the Critical Concerns as a critical part of such analysis. 
Policy 3.2: Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income residential development in 
commercial or mixed-use zones commercial centers, or employment centers. (Utah Code § 17-
27a-403(2)(b)ii(F))  
Implementation Measure 3.2a: Upon completion of “Our Summit”, a community 
visioning project, completed in 2024, the Planning Commission will review and update, if 
26
   
 
   
 
necessary, the General Plan Future Land Use Maps and identify specific rezone areas as 
well as opportunities to create additional mixed use zones.  
Implementation Measure 3.2b: Continue to regularly review, and amend as necessary, 
the comprehensive long range Snyderville Basin Transportation Master Plan.  
Policy 3.3: Demonstrate implementation of any other program or strategy to address the 
housing needs of residents of the county who earn less than 80% of the area median income, 
including the dedication of a local funding source to moderate income housing or the adoption 
of a land use ordinance that requires 10% or more of new residential development in a 
residential zone be dedicated to moderate income housing. (Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(W)) 
Implementation Measure 3.3a: Annually review the Affordable Housing chapter of the 
Development Code and amend, if necessary, to ensure affordable housing best practices 
are implemented. Maintain the requirement that all new residential development be 
required to develop or ensure the development of moderate income housing at a rate of 
twenty percent (20%) of the units in a development. The moderate income housing 
obligation shall continue to be met concurrently with the construction of market rate 
units. 
Policy 3.4: Require commercial, industrial, and resort projects to provide housing for a 
percentage of their projected workforce.  
Policy 3.5: Require a long-term commitment to affordability.  
Policy 3.6: Ratify a joint acquisition agreement with another local political subdivision for the 
purpose of combining resources to acquire property for moderate income housing. (Utah Code § 
17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(T))  
Implementation Measure 3.6a: Facilitate discussions with local political subdivisions to 
enter into a joint agreement within two years.  
Implementation Measure 3.6b: Within two years, coordinate with local political 
subdivisions to accurately assess regional moderate income housing needs, including a 
regional employment study. 
Implementation Measure 3.6c: Annually, coordinate with local political subdivisions in 
the development and implementation of regional moderate income housing strategies. 
Implementation Measure3.6d: Within one year, coordinate with local political 
subdivisions to identify local, state, and federal funding sources to create moderate 
income housing through a regional housing authority or other forms of cooperation.  
Policy 3.7: Explore the creation of a Summit County Housing Authority and/or regional housing 
authority.  
27
   
 
   
 
Implementation Measure 3.7a: Within one year, begin discussions with the 
 Summit County Council regarding the creation of a Summit County Housing  
 Authority and/or regional housing authority. 
Policy 3.8: Incorporate the definition of “Middle Income Housing” in the Development Code and 
other policy documents.  
Policy 3.9: Beginning in 2024, conduct a biennial review of Chapter 5, Affordable Housing, 
Development Code and update the County’s inclusionary housing ordinance as necessary.  
Policy 3.10: Develop and implement measures that hold developers of moderate income 
housing strategies accountable for the implementation of their strategies, actions, and results. 
Monitoring must be transparent with clear, easily understood metrics that enable the 
developers, elected officials, and the public to easily understand if and how progress is being 
made in implementing the strategy.  
Implementation Measure 3.10a: Require developers of moderate income housing to file 
annual reports with reasonably detailed criteria that reports the compliance with 
applicable deed restrictions; create penalties for failure to comply with such deed 
restrictions and related enforcement mechanisms. 
Implementation Measure 3.10b: Create land use regulations that prohibit nightly 
rentals of any housing units that are created using any moderate income housing 
incentives or pursuant to land use regulations created, amended, or modified to 
facilitate the creation of moderate income housing.  
Implementation Measure 3.10c Following receipt of the Annual Moderate Income 
Housing Reporting Form, establish a stakeholder committee that meets annually with 
the purpose of adopting and monitoring specific measures to be used when evaluating 
moderate income housing projects.  
Implementation Measure 3.10d: Develop and implement a public engagement program 
to communicate, educate, and collaboratively problem solve issues related to creating 
moderate income housing in appropriate areas.  
Implementation Measure 3.10e: Annually report the County’s progress toward meeting 
the moderate income housing demand as required by Utah law. 
Implementation Measure 3.10f: Annually review the number of moderate-income units 
entitled, permitted, and constructed against the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment, 
as updated.  
Policy 3.11: Support a variety of housing consisting of a balance of types of housing, styles of 
housing, ownership category, unit sizes, and a range of affordability.  
 
28
   
 
   
 
Policy 3.12: Implement zoning incentives for moderate income units in new developments. 
(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(J))  
 
Implementation Measure 3.12a: Amend the Development Code, within two years, to 
incentivize the creation of moderate income housing units such as increased building 
height, reduced setbacks, reduced parking standards, and expedited building permit 
reviews. 
Implementation Measure 3.12b: Maintain the incentive community benefit criteria for 
incentive zoning for deed restricted moderate income housing in the Town Center and 
Resort Center zone districts. 
Implementation Measure 3.12c: Amend the Development Code, within two years, to 
incentivize the creation of deed restricted affordable senior living communities for 
residents that are 55 years old or older. 
Policy 3.13: Amend land use regulations to allow for single room occupancy developments. 
(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(I))  
Implementation Measure 3.13a: Amend the Development Code in 2024 to allow for the 
development of Single Room Occupancy (SRO) housing, group homes, community 
housing, emergency shelter and transitional housing, and supported living facilities for 
the elderly and persons with special housing needs in residential zone districts, taking 
into consideration the proximity to public transportation, shopping, medical services, 
and other essential support services.   
Policy 3.14: Allow the development of seasonal housing to address the needs of the resort 
 economy, through cooperation with current and future employes and housing agencies in 
 the area. 
Policy 3.15: Demonstrate creation of, or participation in, a community land trust program for 
moderate income housing.(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(M))  
Implementation Measure 3.15a: Annually meet with local non- profit organizations who 
support the creation of and intend to ensure the long-term affordability moderate 
income housing to establish on-going cooperation and coordination and to maintain 
public/private partnerships. 
Implementation Measure 3.15b: Establish a stakeholder committee, within one year, 
comprised of local governments, community housing agencies, and residents to 
establish numerical goals and associated milestones to track and monitor progress of 
creating moderate income housing and to uncover shortfalls. 
Policy 3.16: Identify and utilize county general fund subsidies or other sources of revenue to 
waive construction related fees that are otherwise generally imposed by the County for the 
construction or rehabilitation of moderate income housing. (Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(D))  
29
   
 
   
 
Implementation Measure 3.16a: Maintain, and annually review, and amend as 
necessary, Development Code provisions regarding fee waivers for moderate income 
housing units.  
Implementation Measure 3.17b: Maintain, and annually review, and amend as 
necessary, the fee in lieu of constructing moderate income housing established in the 
Development Code.  
Implementation Measure 3.18c: Amend the Development Code, within one year, to 
allow fees in lieu that have been collected to subsidize construction related fees for 
moderate income housing on private property. 
GOAL: Support strategies that allow persons with moderate and low incomes to benefit from and fully 
participate in all aspects of neighborhood and community life. 
Policy 3.17: Encourage in-fill housing development in mixed use areas that offer residents easy 
access to goods, services, jobs, transportation, and recreation. 
Policy 3.18: Encourage and incentivize the distribution of workforce housing in the Snyderville 
Basin. 
Policy 3.19: Create a housing and transit reinvestment zone (HTRZ) pursuant to Title 63N, 
Chapter 3, Part 6, Housing and Transit Reinvestment Zone Act. (Utah Code § 17-27a-
403(2)(b)ii(Q))  
Implementation Measure 3.19a: Hold community public hearings to acquire input in the 
criteria that the County should consider in selecting a HTRZ within one year. 
Implementation Measure 3.19b: Amend the General Plan and Development Code to 
codify HTRZ criteria and establish zones where HTRZs are allowed within one year after 
the community public hearings are closed. 
Implementation Measure 3.19c: Establish a development permit application process for 
projects in the HTRZ within one year after the community public hearings are closed.  
  
30
   
 
   
 
Chapter 4: Transportation and Connectivity  
The Transportation and Connectivity Element is designed to guide and outline strategies for maintaining 
and developing the transportation network including roads, public transit, bicycle routes, and pedestrian 
pathways to provide efficient movement of people and goods throughout the Snyderville Basin.   
Summit County has a Long Range Transportation Plan and an Active Transportation Plan. This 
Transportation Element of the General Plan works in tandem with the Long Range and Active 
Transportation Plans to guide all aspects of transportation within the Snyderville Basin.  
Context 
The Snyderville Basin has a mix of transportation options including, but not limited to public transit 
(primarily provided by High Valley Transit), bicycle and pedestrian paths, and ride share programs. Many 
of the transportation challenges and congestion stems from single-occupancy vehicles traveling to the 
resorts through Kimball Junction.  
 
While some residential areas lack direct road connections between neighborhoods, due in part to the 
mountainous terrain and incremental development patterns, there are strong opportunities to enhance 
connectivity. The Snyderville Basin Special Recreation District has established a robust active 
transportation network that links many community entry points, providing a solid foundation to build 
upon. By expanding these connections and integrating them with future development, Summit County 
can further strengthen neighborhood cohesion and mobility. 
The County’s Transportation Department aims to plan, program, and build a transportation system to 
reduce traffic congestion, provide robust transportation options, and promote safe, comfortable, and 
healthy transportation solutions. The Transportation Department created and maintains the Long Range 
Transportation Plan and the Active Transportation Plan (see links below). 
Existing Conditions 
Major Roads & Levels of Service 
https://summitcounty.maps.arcgis.com/apps/mapviewer/index.html?layers=7f9e0b2c36ad418ab5fca7b
e4acc6cfc 
The Level of Service (LOS) of roads refers to the efficiency of traffic flow on a road. The LOS is typically 
classified as follows. 
• Level A: Represents free-flowing traffic with little to no congestion.  
• Level B: Traffic flow is stable but begins to experience slight congestion.  
• Level C: Traffic starts to become more congested.  
• Level D: Congestion becomes more noticeable, and traffic speeds decrease significantly.  
• Level E: Traffic flow is at or near capacity.  
31
   
 
   
 
• Level F: Represents failure or breakdown in traffic flow.  
Transit Lines & Ridership statistics 
https://highvalleytransit.org/bus-routes 
Monthly_Ridership_Since_Inception HVT.xlsx 
Bus Routes 
Bitner Shuttle.pdf 
Canyons Shuttle.pdf 
High Line.pdf 
Kamas Commuter.pdf 
KJ Shuttle.pdf 
PC SLC Connect.pdf 
Silver Creek Village.pdf 
Spiro 224.pdf 
Spiro 224.pdf 
Park & Ride Facilities 
Bike routes 
https://www.summitcounty.org/DocumentCenter/View/22732/SummitCoATP_FinalAdopted_2019-11-
20 
Active Transportation Plan 
Transportation Master Plan 2019.pdf 
Maps 
Community Engagement Feedback 
Community Engagement Feedback  
• When the community was asked “If you left Summit County for 10 years, what would you want 
to see when you return?”, a popular answer was that they would like to see less traffic.  
• 65% of responses said that having locally owned businesses creates an enjoyable commercial 
area.  
• 70% of responses said that walkability makes them enjoyable. 
• Traffic congestion was identified as the second most important element when measuring the 
community’s quality of life, just behind access to natural areas. However, when asked about how 
people access areas within the community, 87% of respondents indicated that they drive by 
themselves. 
32
   
 
   
 
• There seems to be a desire to reduce reliance on single-occupancy vehicles.  
• When asked about the role cars would have in an ideal community, the most popular response 
was that people might drive to the community space, but cars and car infrastructure take up 
little visual space.  
• 25% of responses to the same question said that cars would not be the main mode of 
transportation in their ideal community area.  
• Additionally, 68% of respondents indicated that they would like to take transit and 55% said they 
would like to ride their bike to access places within the community. 
Transportation Goals, Objectives, Policies and Strategies 
GOAL: Promote a variety of transportation alternatives that provide convenient, reliable, and efficient 
services that meet the travel requirements of users. 
OBJECTIVE A: Use comprehensive multi-modal transportation planning to guide decision 
making. 
Policy 4.1: Work in conjunction with the Summit County Transportation Department to 
review and update as necessary the comprehensive Long Range Snyderville Basin 
Transportation Master Plan (the “Transportation Master Plan”). The County has adopted 
this Plan as the primary transportation planning tool that establishes a roadway 
classification system, a map showing the location of future roads and key improvements 
required, and a description of a local transit system needed to serve the community. The 
Transportation Master Plan is attached as an appendix to this Chapter. 
Policy 4.2: Coordinate with the Snyderville Basin Special Recreation District and adjacent 
regional jurisdictions on updates to their Trails and Open Space Master Plan to address 
such items as location, construction, connectivity, maintenance, safety, and funding of 
community wide trails. The County has adopted this as the primary Trails Plan for the 
Snyderville Basin. 
Policy 4.3: Participate in joint planning efforts with High Valley Transit to identify 
underserved areas and prioritize service expansions. 
OBJECTIVE B: Encourage a pedestrian/bike system which connects retail areas, public facilities, 
recreational areas and neighborhoods that minimizes pedestrian-bicycle-auto conflicts. 
Policy 4.4: Streets and adjacent spaces should not be just a corridor for moving traffic, 
but make allowances for social interaction, walking, horseback riding where appropriate, 
and cycling.  
Strategy 4.4.1: Partner with the Transportation Department to set a Complete 
Streets goal and advance eligible projects that improve multimodal access and 
mobility. 
Policy 4.5: Support transportation projects designed to improve the comfort, efficiency, 
safety, and quality of existing facilities. 
33
   
 
   
 
Police 4.6: Develop and implement a County-wide wayfinding system for both vehicular 
traffic and non-vehicular traffic to guide visitors and residents to and from their 
destinations. 
Strategy 4.6.1: Update the Development Code to allow off-premise wayfinding 
signs throughout the Snyderville Basin. 
OBJECTIVE C: Develop a list of priorities for expansion, maintenance, rehabilitation, and 
reconstruction of transportation projects based on the ability of current and projected revenues 
to finance identified needs.  
Policy 4.7: Study and implement strategies to regularly audit streets and transit systems 
for upgrades. All efforts will be made to use existing transportation resources to their 
maximum efficiency before new infrastructure is built.  
Strategy 4.7.1: In coordination with the Transportation Department, develop a 
regional or county-wide Congestion Management Plan that provides each key 
transportation corridor with a variety of tools for improving efficiency, including, 
but not limited to capacity expansion. 
Policy 4.8: Improve access to major roadways, including highway and other arterial 
roads. 
Strategy 4.8.1: In coordination with the Transportation Department, develop a 
Street and Intersection Typologies Design Guide that will promote an approach 
to street design that better reflects needs of streets based on the land use.  
Policy 4.9: The County should consider the implementation of transportation demand 
management strategies, including, but not limited to the following components: 
a.  Park and ride facilities at Kimball Junction, Quinn’s Junction, Town and 
Resort Centers, and other appropriate locations; 
b.  Programs limiting portions of roads to non-motorized vehicles or pedestrian 
use; 
c.  Bicycle Transportation Master Plan, working in conjunction with Park City 
Municipal, U.D.O.T., and the Snyderville Basin Special Recreation District; 
d. Employer-based carpooling; 
e.  Employer-sponsored flexible work schedules; 
f. Local programs directed toward the community center, special events, and 
other high traffic generators. 
OBJECTIVE D: Development should be designed to provide multimodal connectivity between 
adjacent subdivisions, commercial areas, or other developments. 
34
   
 
   
 
Policy 4.10: All streets should be designed to connect to the larger network. Cul-de-sacs 
are generally discouraged, especially in areas where connectivity opportunities exist. The 
street pattern should be arranged to keep through traffic off local streets. Road patterns 
designed to allow traffic to speed through a neighborhood are not appropriate. 
Policy 4.11: Development should include a continuous system of sidewalks or pathways 
to connect all residential, commercial, parks, school and civic amenities, and other 
areas. Connections between internal pathway systems to the community system are 
highly encouraged. 
Strategy 4.11.1: Create a connectivity map that identifies key pedestrian routes 
that connect various uses, such as residential, commercial, civic, and 
recreational spaces.  
Policy 4.12: The distance between intersections should not exceed a distance that is 
comfortable for walking from place to place. 
Strategy 4.12.1: Establish clear standards in the Development Code for the 
minimum distance between intersections. 
Policy 4.13: Traffic calming devices should be incorporated where appropriate and as 
indicated in the County Street Calming Program. Reduced traffic speeds will be 
promoted on neighborhood roads with appropriate signs or other measures indicating 
road use by others such as children, horses, bicyclists, walkers, or fishermen. 
Policy 4.14: Centrally located transit facilities should be placed within all new major 
developments as deemed appropriate by High Valley Transit 
Policy 4.15: The County should work with the Snyderville Basin Special Recreation 
District and public and private schools to identify and expand safe routes to schools, 
where feasible. 
OBJECTIVE E: The County should support local and regional public transit opportunities to 
provide greater transportation efficiency and improve the regional transportation system 
throughout Summit County and the surrounding municipalities. 
Policy 4.16: Recognize the regional nature of traffic and commit to continue working 
with UDOT, Park City Municipal, Wasatch County, Salt Lake County, and other 
stakeholders to achieve regional public transit cooperation. 
Policy 4.17: Maximize existing infrastructure to accommodate for public transit rather 
than building or expanding roads. 
Policy 4.18: Work with regional transportation partners such as High Valley Transit to 
plan for and implement transportation projects that improve regional connectivity and 
access. 
35
   
 
   
 
Chapter 5: Economic Development  
The Economic Development Element strives to sustain economic opportunities and prosperity by 
diversifying the current tourism economy. This General Plan, along with the effective implementation of 
its components, is closely linked to and supports the objectives of the Economic Development Plan.  
Context 
Since the transition away from mining, the Snyderville Basin has relied on the tourism and recreation 
economy. The economy of the Snyderville Basin relies on key factors such as access to utilities and 
services, transportation, quality of life amenities like parks, trails, and open space, educational facilities, 
housing options, and available land. 
 
Kimball Junction, a mixed-use hub, is a key area located in the Snyderville Basin, situated at the 
intersection of Interstate 80 and Utah State Route 224. It supports local and regional businesses, 
attracting residents and tourists. Some neighborhood-level retail exists throughout the Snyderville Basin 
near existing neighborhoods, however, the neighborhood-level retail is often insufficient to 
accommodate residents’ daily needs, which results in trips to the Kimball Junction.  
Existing Conditions 
Summit County has 35,801available jobs. This includes QCEW (Quarterly Census of Employment and 
Wages) Employees, Non-QCEW Employees, and Self-Employed. If Extended-Proprietors (jobs that are not 
a person's primary job) are included the number of jobs would increase to 53,547, meaning Summit 
County produces more jobs than it has people. The Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute projects that Summit 
County will add ~6,600 jobs over the next 10 years (660 per year).  
Snyderville Basin currently accounts for X,X 
XX jobs with Accommodation and Food Services, Arts/ Entertainment/Recreation, Construction, Retail 
Trade, and Government sectors being the top five industries.  
The fastest-growing employment sectors in the Snyderville Basin are Leisure and Hospitality, the two 
largest employment sectors in the Snyderville Basin, with 6,854 and 2,637 jobs, respectively, in 2024 
Bureau of Economic and Business Research (BEBR), David Eccles School of Business, University of Utah, 
Salt Lake City, 2024). 
Snyderville Basin’s dependence on tourism has increased since 2001, when the two industry groupings, 
Leisure and Hospitality, represented 55.5 percent of Snyderville Basin’s employment. The public sector is 
the next largest, averaging over 10 percent of the Snyderville Basin’s jobs from 2022 through 2024, then 
shrinking slightly to 9 percent in 2024 (BEBR), David Eccles School of Business, University of Utah, Salt 
Lake City, 2024). 
The average annual wage across all industries in the Snyderville Basin was $32,986 in 2024 (BEBR), David 
Eccles School of Business, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, 2024). 
36
   
 
   
 
The average annual wage for Leisure and Hospitality jobs (60 percent of all jobs) in 2024 was $24,486 
BEBR, David Eccles School of Business, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, 2024). 
The average annual wage for retail workers in 2024 was $23.900 (BEBR), David Eccles School of Business, 
University of Utah, Salt Lake City, 2024). 
Statistics show that there are 18,645 daily workers coming into Summit County while 14,910 daily 
workers are leaving Summit County. Typically, the outbound jobs held by Summit County residents are 
higher paying jobs.  
 
 
37
   
 
   
 
 
38
   
 
   
 
 
39
   
 
   
 
 
Source: United States Census Bureau  
Community Engagement Feedback 
• 65% of responses said that having locally owned businesses creates an enjoyable commercial 
area. 
Potential Maps for new areas?  
Economic Development Goals, Objectives, Policies and Strategies  
GOAL: Identify and implement a wide range of strategies to diversify the economy to insulate Summit 
County from economic downturns.  
OBJECTIVE A: Increase and redevelop existing infrastructure to support economic diversification 
and opportunities. 
Policy 5.1:  When developing the five-year Capital Improvement Program, Summit County 
should place a high priority on upgrading existing and building new infrastructure.  
40
   
 
   
 
Policy 5.2 Identify key sites for targeted economic development by focusing on the 
redevelopment of underutilized commercial and mixed-use properties within the 
County.  
Policy 5.3: Adopt a balanced portfolio of industries and jobs which promote a variety of 
wages.   
OBJECTIVE B: Secure the Snyderville Basin’s competitive position within the region.  
Policy 5.4: Implement affordable housing policies to allow the Snyderville Basin 
workforce to live within the community.  
Strategy 5.4.1: Update the Development Code to refine the affordable housing 
policies. 
Policy 5.5: Implement incubator opportunities in commercial and mixed-use areas. 
Strategy 5.5.1. Designate specific commercial and mixed-use areas where 
incubators can thrive, focusing on areas with high foot traffic and access to 
transportation. 
Policy 5.6: Consider incentives to attract new businesses that meet local and regional 
shopping needs, such as streamlined permitting processes. 
Strategy 5.6.1: Simplify and expedite the permitting process for businesses that 
align with local and regional shopping needs, reducing bureaucracy and time 
delays to make the area more attractive for business investment. 
OBJECTIVE C: Work to improve job wages and benefits for residents through County public 
works contracts and by working with employers and employee groups. 
Policy 5.7: The County should promote the public transit programs that provide 
transportation services that assist workers in meeting their transportation needs. 
Policy 5.8: The County should continue to work with public organizations and employers 
to provide necessary childcare services to reduce hindrances to employment 
opportunities. 
Policy 5.9: The County should recruit industries that offer higher wage employment 
options.  
Policy 5.10: The County should continue its relationships with regional universities, such 
as Utah State University and continue its efforts to become a center for new industries.   
Policy 5.11: The County should capitalize on the presence of the regional hospitals to 
attract new businesses to the Snyderville Basin. 
  
41
   
 
   
 
Chapter 6: Natural and Cultural Resources  
The Natural and Cultural Resources Element provides guidance for preserving, protecting, and enhancing 
the natural environment and a sense of community. The Element aims to preserve the rural character of 
the area while more actively supporting the identities of Snyderville Basin residents.  
This Element is separate from the Resource Management Plan (RMP), required for compliance with 
House Bill (HB) 219, Resource Management Planning by Local Governments, amended Section 17-27a -
401. Summit County’s RMP is an Element of this General Plan and can be found here. The RMP identifies 
resource management strategies for public lands as defined in State statute. The Summit County RMP 
also includes additional strategies related to natural resources.  
The goals, objectives, policies, and strategies in the remainder of this chapter act as guiding tools to 
protect natural and cultural resources as they relate to land use and development, outside of those 
federally managed, public lands. 
Context 
The Snyderville Basin has rich natural resources that directly support the economy, create diverse 
ecosystems, and contribute to the high quality of life for residents. The Wasatch Mountains define a 
large portion of the area and create steep, forested terrain. The valleys are often defined by riparian and 
wetland environments that capture essential drinking and irrigation water. Most of the Snyderville Basin 
is within the Lower Weber Watershed, which drains into the Great Salt Lake.  
 
As the land transitions from the alpine environment, the terrain dries out and sage brush becomes 
predominant. These areas support a wide variety of plant and animal species like mule deer, elk, and 
native bird populations. The risk of wildfires is a growing concern due to rising temperatures, prolonged 
drought periods, and the proximity of development into dry or densely vegetated areas. 
Water resources are important to the area as they are critical for irrigation, drinking water, and 
recreational opportunities. Defining water features include East Canyon Creek and Silver Creek, both of 
which are highly subject to variable seasonal conditions like prolonged droughts or heavy spring runoff 
and have been affected by nearby development. Silver Creek runs through an Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA) Superfund Site created from remnants of the mining industry.  
Much of the identity of the Snyderville Basin has become intertwined with the recreation opportunities 
available on open space, and the community holds strong conservation and environmental stewardship 
values. Preserving systems of high quality, well-managed open spaces are essential and an important 
land use consideration as growth and development pressures increase. Much of the responsibility for 
preserving open spaces lies with local land trust organizations and with the Summit County Lands and 
Natural Resources Department.  
Mining, like the railroad, has essentially disappeared, but has created a unique identity that the 
community celebrates. Similarly, active agricultural operations have diminished, but the remaining 
farmland and historic farm structures are appreciated by the community and should be supported.  
42
   
 
   
 
Existing Conditions 
Approximately X% of land within the Snyderville Basin contain steep slopes, wetlands, and/or other 
Critical Lands which include land areas having slopes thirty percent (30%) or greater, floodplains, 
wetlands, avalanche zones, geologic hazards, and ridgelines. The Development Code prohibits 
development in areas containing Critical Lands. For previously entitled developments or if there are no 
areas to build that don’t affect Critical Lands, there are provisions to ensure that development occurs in 
the most sensitive way. Map X depicts Critical Lands in the Basin.  
Federally protected lands take up X% land area within the Snyderville Basin Planning District.  
There are X number of structures and/or sites listed on the National Register of Historic Places and X 
number of public art exhibitions. Map X depicts those structures, sites, and art installations. The 
Snyderville Basin also has a number of places for community events and public gathering places. Map X 
shows the location and type of cultural sites.  
Community Engagement Feedback 
● When asked why the community values open space, 83% of respondents indicated that “open 
spaces are important for the health of our natural ecosystems and can protect native plants, 
wildlife, and water bodies”.  
● When asked to pick images that described the character of the Snyderville Basin, the two most 
selected photos included a volunteer stewardship event to remove litter and agricultural fields.  
● When asked about the resources that need the most attention to maintain the quality of life in 
the Snyderville Basin, agriculture was selected the least.  
Natural and Cultural Resources Goals, Objectives, Policies and Strategies  
Resource Management Plan 
For compliance with House Bill (HB) 219, Resource Management Planning by Local Governments, 
amended Section 17 -27a -401, and HB160, Summit County’s Resource Management Plan, and element 
of this General Plan, can be found here. The Resource Management Plan identifies resource 
management strategies for public lands held by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and the US 
Forest Service within Summit County.  
The following strategies in the remainder of this chapter act as guiding tools to protect natural and 
cultural resources as they relate to land use, outside of those federally managed, public lands. Additional 
goals and strategies related to land use and natural resources remain in the RMP .  
GOAL: Identify cultural and natural resources and ensure that all development is compatible with 
those resources.  
OBJECTIVE A: Recognize amenities important to the community heritage of the Snyderville 
Basin.    
Policy 6.1: Create and maintain a list of important heritage sites in the Snyderville Basin 
by collaborating with the County Historian, local groups, and Native Tribes. Heritage 
43
   
 
   
 
amenities include sites of importance to Native peoples, sites where significant historic 
events occurred, sites of importance to culturally important people, historic trails, paths, 
and other transportation connections or corridors, structures more than 50 years old, 
and past or present agricultural operations.  
Strategy 6.1.1: Develop a Heritage Preservation Plan to be used as a land use 
tool, similar to the Summit County Rail Trail Corridor Plan. 
Policy 6.2: Offer incentives for development when heritage amenities are preserved, 
enhanced, and meaningfully incorporated into developments; define the incentives in 
the Development Code.  
Strategy 6.2.1: Begin updating the Development Code to incentivize 
developments that incorporate heritage amenities.  
Strategy 6.2.2: Update the Development Code to create a façade easement 
program. 
Policy 6.3: Support the remaining agricultural operations through the creation of an 
agritourism process.  
Strategy 6.3.1: Update the Development Code to create an agritourism process. 
OBJECTIVE B: Celebrate Snyderville Basin’s heritage with art and continually educate the 
community about the history.  
Policy 6.4: Ensure new development considers art installations and programming 
included in the Summit County Arts and Culture Plan (being written now, unsure of 
name). 
Strategy 6.4.1: Consider adding incentives to the Development Code for the 
installation of art for rezones or significant redevelopments.  
Policy 6.5: Support the Summit County Events team to ensure community events 
appropriately represent and celebrate all past and current cultures.  
Policy 6.6: Partner with local groups on community events to offer unique activities and 
educational opportunities directly related to Summit County heritage.  
Policy 6.7: Ensure adequate County-owned lands can be used appropriately and easily 
for cultural community events.  
OBJECTIVE C: Ensure development is sensitive to the natural environment to maintain the 
ecological balance and preserve scenic qualities in the Basin.   
Policy 6.8: Use current wetland data from the Army Corps of Engineers when reviewing 
development permits. 
44
   
 
   
 
Policy 6.9: Ensure there are sufficient zoning incentives for developments that go above 
and beyond to protect or enhance the natural environment. 
OBJECTIVE D: Develop sustainable and wildlife preservation strategies, ensuring the protection, 
conservation, and enhancement of native species and their habitat. 
Policy 6.10: Create standards for development within or near critical winter and summer 
ranges, birthing areas, and migration corridors.  
Strategy 6.10.1: Work with the Utah State Division of Wildlife Resources to map 
critical winter and summer ranges, birthing areas, and migration corridors.  
Policy 6.11: Support discussions and coordination among U.D.O.T., the Summit County 
Transportation Department, residents and other stakeholders to effectively address 
challenges posed by human-wildlife conflicts.  
Strategy 6.11.1: Implement strategies to reduce human-wildlife conflicts, 
including wildlife-proofing infrastructure, educating the public on responsible 
wildlife interactions, and promoting safe wildlife crossings on roads. 
Policy 6.12: Ensure that new developments are designed with wildlife movement and 
safety in mind. 
 Strategy 6.12.1: Encourage the use of native, wildlife-resistant plants in urban 
developments and landscaping projects to reduce the attraction of wildlife to 
human spaces, such as gardens and residential areas. 
Strategy 6.12.2: Promote the use of fencing and barriers in private and public 
spaces to prevent animals from entering residential areas in search of food or 
shelter. 
  
45
   
 
   
 
Chapter 7: Open Space 
This Element aims to highly prioritize the conservation of open space by incentivizing compact, 
sustainable development in appropriate areas. Open space is a critical component that guides the 
preservation and management of land areas set aside for public use, conservation, and recreation. The 
preservation and management of open space helps protect habitats, safeguard water resources, and 
provide a buffer against sprawl. 
 
Context 
Open space in the Snyderville Basin plays a crucial role in preserving the region's natural beauty, 
enhancing recreational opportunities, and maintaining ecological balance. Preservation of open space 
lands and connections between them is necessary to support a healthy environment and to retain the 
sense of place, quality of life, and the economic success of the resort economy. For the purposes of this 
section, open space has been defined as the following: 
 
1. Conservation Lands: These lands, while designated as open space, are also legally protected 
by governing documents that ensure ongoing permitted uses of the land and prohibition of 
others.  Conservation Lands are protected by, including but not limited to, a conservation 
easement, a deed restriction, a land use covenant, or can be encumbered by a development 
agreement or subdivision plat dedication. Along with legal protection, Conservation Values 
are used to define the ecological, social, or cultural significance of a natural area.  The 
“Conservation Values” describe the importance by underscoring the unique biodiversity, 
habitats, ecosystem services, and/or other significant features that contribute to the overall 
health of the landscape; essentially, they represent the worth of a natural area in terms of its 
conservation potential.  
2. Qualifying Open Space for Development: Qualifying Open Space refers to a designated area 
of land within a development project that is considered suitable for preservation as open 
space, often meeting specific criteria like environmental sensitivity, recreational value, or 
aesthetic qualities, and can be used to fulfill local zoning requirements for open space 
dedication within a new development. 
3. Recreation Types: 
 
a. Passive Recreation: Refers to recreational activities that do not require prepared 
facilities like sports fields, pavilions, or improvements like trails. Passive recreational 
activities place minimal stress on a site’s resources; as a result, they can provide 
ecosystem service benefits and are highly compatible with natural resource 
protection.   Examples of Passive Recreation include camping, hunting, observing 
and photographing nature, picnicking, swimming, hiking, walking, and wildlife 
viewing.  
b. Active Recreation: Refers to recreation activities that are structured for individual or 
team activity and that require the use of special facilities, courses, fields, or 
equipment. These activities are primarily physical and are done for enjoyment, 
health, or relaxation. Examples of Active Recreation include hiking and biking trails, 
sports fields, swimming pools, playgrounds, basketball courts, tennis courts, dog 
parks, and community gardens. 
46
   
 
   
 
c. Non-Motorized Recreation: Non-Motorized Recreation defines a means of travel 
that does not use an engine, or motor, to propel movement. Areas designated as 
non-motorized may allow for travel, such as by foot, horse, or bicycle. 
d. Motorized Recreation: Motorized Recreation defines a means of travel that allows 
for an engine, or motor, to propel movement. Areas designated as motorized may 
allow for travel such as by vehicle, off-highway vehicle (OHV), motorcycle, electric 
bicycle or scooter.  
Existing Conditions 
Beyond federal or state protections, approximately X% of open space is under a conservation easement 
or other legal protection for either agricultural, recreation, or conservation uses. These lands are 
generally undevelopable and are considered Conservation Lands by the County Lands and Natural 
Resources Department.  
Map X depicts the Conservation Lands and County-owned open spaces in the Snyderville Basin.  
Community Engagement Feedback 
● When asked about what the community considers to be Open Space, 67% of responses indicated 
that open space is land preserved for wildlife and did not include human use.  
● When asked why the community values open space, 83% of respondents indicated that “open 
spaces are important for the health of our natural ecosystems and can protect native plants, 
wildlife, and water bodies”.  
● When asked about the community’s favorite open space, most respondents indicated that the 
open space is important for plants and wildlife, but also that it is beautiful and near their home 
or neighborhood.  
● When asked about the issues the community is most concerned about for the future, the 
preservation of open space received 54% of responses and was the second-most selected 
response.  
Open Space Goals, Objectives, Policies and Strategies  
GOAL: Preserve open spaces that contain important recreational, cultural, and scenic resources.  
OBJECTIVE D: Comprehensively consider future growth and development needs when 
identifying open space that should be conserved by the County.  
Policy 7.1: Ensure zoning actively directs new development away from the lands most 
desirable for open space conservation.  
Strategy 7.1.1: Consider creating overlay zones to offer incentives for preserving 
open space in predetermined areas.  
Policy 7.2: Create additional zoning districts that provide more variety in allowable 
densities and development patterns.  
OBJECTIVE F: Ensure an adequate amount of open space is required for all new developments.  
47
   
 
   
 
Policy 7.3: Critically assess and amend open space requirements for new development in 
the Development Code so that preserved open spaces reflect the type of open space the 
community wants. 
Strategy 7.3.1: Analyze the current open space requirements in the 
Development Code, evaluating whether they align with the community’s needs, 
desires, and environmental goals. Identify gaps in the current system, such as 
insufficient access to certain types of open space or areas lacking adequate 
recreational opportunities. 
Policy 7.4: Offer development incentives for preserving more open space than required 
and for preserving open spaces adjacent to existing or planned open space.  
Strategy 7.4.1: Establish clear guidelines for the types of incentives available to 
developers who exceed the minimum open space requirements. These 
incentives might include density bonuses, expedited permitting processes, or 
reduced fees.  
OBJECTIVE G: Consistently coordinate with non-profit organizations dedicated to preserving 
open space to mutually benefit the County and the organization’s priorities.  
Policy 7.5: Establish and maintain cooperative partnerships with non-profit organizations 
dedicated to preserving open space and the County Lands and Natural Resource 
Department.  
Policy 7.6: Ensure that open spaces are protected and maintained in ways that are 
appropriate for the type of resource on the land (Critical Lands, recreational resources, 
cultural resources, scenic resources, etc.) 
Strategy 7.7.1: Create a future conservation lands map to help connect open 
space preserved through new development. Be considerate that the open space 
map does not inflate or hinder the acquisition of open space by the County or 
other land trust organizations.  
OBJECTIVE H: Create consistent definitions of for different types of open spaces and identify how 
different types should be prioritized. 
Policy 7.8: Create a County-wide open space management plan that distinguishes the 
types of open spaces, how the protection of those open should be prioritized and 
distributed across the County. 
Strategy 7.8.1: Update the Development Code definitions for open space so they 
are consistent with the definitions in the Context section of this Chapter. 
Policy 7.9: Work with non-profit organizations that conserve open space to ensure their 
definitions align with County definitions. 
48
   
 
   
 
Policy 7.10: Ensure that conservation easements, deed restrictions, trail easements, 
and/or plat notes are recorded that clearly define and confirm the purpose of the land 
and any associated restrictions.   
 OBJECTIVE I: Ensure that open space is appropriately owned and maintained.  
Policy 7.11: Update the Development Code to require open space management plans for 
all open space preserved as part of a development permit. Management plans should 
include noxious weed control and operations and maintenance needs. 
Policy 7.12: Ensure open space management plans are publicly available and included as 
part of the public record when open space is conserved through new development.  
Policy 7.13: For open space preserved through new development, create standards that 
determine how the open space should be owned and managed:  
a. Ownership: When open space only benefits a single development with limited to 
no public access, those lands should remain under private ownership. When 
open space is preserved to benefit the greater community and allow for greater 
public access and civic needs, those lands should be owned and maintained by a 
public entity.  
 
b. Management: When open spaces are conserved and will not allow active human 
use, chemical treatments, machinery, and vehicles should be minimized in 
management plans.  
Policy 7.14: Ensure that each open space management plan includes proactive measures 
that reduce the risk of wildfires in the Snyderville Basin.  
Policy 7.15: Establish and maintain cooperative partnerships with local land trusts, other 
public and private entities, or qualified land conservation groups and non-profits to 
acquire and maintain open spaces.  
 
  
49
   
 
   
 
Chapter 8: Community Health and Recreation 
The Community Health and Recreation Element considers how our built environments affect our 
physical, mental, emotional, and social health. The Element strives to influence built environments in 
ways that foster good health outcomes.  
This Element is supplemented by the Summit County Rail Trail Corridor Plan, which specifically considers 
recreation along the Historic Union Pacific Rail Trail. The Rail Trail Corridor Plan is an appendix to this 
General Plan.  
Context 
Recreation is a cornerstone of life for many and is a significant tourism attractor. The terrain and vistas 
provide ample opportunities for hiking, mountain biking, skiing, snowboarding, and fishing. Destinations 
like Park City Mountain Resort and the expansive trail system contribute significantly to the local 
economy and lifestyle. Increasing recreation demand and tourism has led to concerns regarding 
overcrowding, trail degradation, and environmental impacts, highlighting the need for sustainable 
management and the preservation of these resources.  
 
Recreation has been described as vital to the physical and mental wellbeing of the community. Basin 
residents have a strong preference for improving walking and biking options. Improved pedestrian 
pathways, bike lanes, and a connected system of parks and open space can support an active lifestyle 
and foster connections between neighborhoods.  
Most recreation programming and infrastructure in the Basin is managed by the Snyderville Basin Special 
Recreation District, which has a very strong presence. Residents also have the Park City Recreation 
facilities nearby. Ensuring that all communities have equitable access to recreation infrastructure and a 
sense of belonging within these activities is crucial.  
There are also disparate opportunities and access to health and recreation infrastructure based on 
income. Those living in affordable housing often live in overcrowding conditions. Compounding effects of 
income inequality have compounding effects on health outcomes.  
Land use decisions regarding transportation, housing, and amenities should simultaneously support and 
improve community health. With development pressures increasing, it is important to ensure that future 
growth incorporates elements that support healthy, active living. 
Existing Conditions 
According to the Utah Healthy Places Index (HPI), which identifies indicators for community health 
compared to places in the rest of the state, Summit County struggles in a few key areas. Summit County 
is less healthy or significantly less healthy than the rest of the State in the following HPI categories: low-
income renters and homeowners' severe cost burden, traffic volume, ozone, diesel, and PM 2.5 
exposure, and park access. These HPI indicators are measures that are closely tied to life expectancy. The 
HPI also identifies Decision Support Layer (DSL) Indicators, which are not as closely tied to life 
expectancy, but measure health outcomes the community cares about. Summit County is less healthy 
than the rest of the State in the following DSL categories: the Gini Coefficient of Inequality, Theil Index of 
50
   
 
   
 
Racial Segregation, median rent, subsidized and public housing units, transit access, motor vehicle 
crashes and injuries, texting while driving, walkability to parks, binge drinking and teen drinking, teen 
marijuana and vaping use, and traumatic brain injuries. 
CALL OUT TABLE:   
Indicator Indicator 
Type 
Description 
Severe Cost Burden HPI Percent of low-income homeowners who pay more than 50% of 
their income on housing costs This is a Well-Being in the Nation 
(WIN) indicator. 
Gini Coefficient of Inequality DSL The Gini coefficient quantifies the extent to which income or wealth 
distribution deviates from a perfectly equal distribution. 
Theil Index of Racial Segregation DSL measures the extent to which a congressional district's racial/ethnic 
groups are evenly represented across its census tracts 
Diesel PM HPI Average daily amount of particulate pollution (very small particles) 
from diesel sources, measured in micrograms per meter cubed. 
Ozone  HPI Average amount of ozone in the air (measured for 8 hours a day) 
during the 10 most polluted days 
PM 2.5 HPI Yearly average of fine particulate matter concentration (very small 
particles from vehicle tailpipes, tires and brakes, powerplants, 
factories, burning wood, construction dust, and many other 
sources), measured in micrograms/meter^3 
Traffic Volume HPI Traffic volume (average annual daily traffic) along nearby major 
roads 
Park Access HPI Total acres of parks, public land, and public golf courses per person 
Median Rent DSL  
Subsidized      housing DSL HUD-subsidized Housing Units: Number of housing units subsidized 
by any HUD program, for every 1,000 housing units 
Other HUD-subsidized units (e.g., Section 8, Section 236): Number 
of housing units subsidized through the Section 8 moderate 
rehabilitation; Section 8 project-based rental assistance; rent 
supplement; rental assistance payment; Section 236; Section 202 
for the elderly; or Section 811 for persons with disabilities, for 
every 1,000 housing units 
51
   
 
   
 
Transit Access DSL Percent of people living close to convenient, reliable transit, as 
defined by a quarter-mile or ten-minute walk, that comes every 
thirty minutes or less during peak commute times 
Motor Vehicle Crashes and 
Injuries 
DSL Rate of motor vehicle crashes per 100,000 population 
Texting While Driving DSL  
Walkability to Parks  Percent of population within a 10 minute walk to a local park or 
trailhead 
Binge Drinking DSL Percent of adults who drank 5 or more alcoholic drinks (men) or 4 
or more alcoholic drinks (women) at least once within the past 
month 
Marijuana and Vaping Use DSL  
Traumatic Brain Injuries DSL  
Source: Summit County Health Department collected from the Utah Healthy Places Index in October 
2024. All definitions of Indicators are from the Utah Healthy Places Index.  
The Snyderville Basin Recreation District provides many parks and recreation facilities throughout the 
Snyderville Basin. Map X depicts the location and type of facilities. Additional information for each 
facility can be found here.  
The Historic Union Pacific Rail Trail spans X miles through the Snyderville Basin outside of Park City 
municipal. As of the adoption of this plan, Summit County is pursuing ownership of the Rail Trail from 
Utah State Parks, with hopes of having more direct control of the use and connections to the trail.  
The Historic Union Pacific Rail Trail spans X miles through the Snyderville Basin outside of Park City 
municipal. As of the adoption of this plan, Summit County is pursuing ownership of the Rail Trail from 
Utah State Parks, with hopes of having more direct control of the use and connections to the trail.  
Community Engagement Feedback 
● Healthy living is one of the objectives identified by Our Summit Community Visioning.  
● Because of the extensive amount of existing recreation opportunities, the community is less 
concerned about the future of recreation in the Basin. Only 18% of respondents indicated that 
they are concerned about the future of recreation.  
● 64% of respondents indicated that having places to actively recreate outdoors is important for 
their lifestyle and physical health.  
● 31% of respondents indicated that passively recreating in the outdoors is an inclusive activity 
that everyone should have access to.  
● 61% of respondents indicated that there should be more open spaces for passive recreation 
(walking, birdwatching, or sitting and admiring views) in the Snyderville Basin.  
52
   
 
   
 
● 44% of respondents indicated that there should be more open spaces for active recreation 
(biking, skiing, hiking, etc) in the Basin.  
● 25% of respondents indicated that there should be more open spaces for organized sports and 
recreation in the Basin.  
● 36% of respondents indicated that there should be more open spaces for smaller community 
parks.  
● 85% of respondents strongly agree or agree that natural resource protection and tourism can be 
compatible.  
● 36% of respondents indicated that there should be more local services like healthcare, childcare, 
education, and youth and adult programming in the Snyderville Basin.  
Community Health and Recreation Goals, Objectives, Policies and Strategies 
The Snyderville Basin Recreation Special Service District is the County entity responsible for providing and 
programming recreation in the Basin. For up-to-date lists of facilities, trails, future recreation 
development and goals, please refer to the Snyderville Basin Special Recreation District Trails Master 
Plan, Trails and Open Space Plan, and Strategic Action Plan.  
The following strategies in the remainder of this chapter act as guiding tools to provide recreation and 
improve health outcomes as they relate to land use.  
GOAL: Create land use policies and programs that promote positive health outcomes with a system of 
connected recreational opportunities. 
OBJECTIVE A: Through new development, create a system of community parks, neighborhood 
connections, trails, and recreation facilities to be developed to address gaps in the existing 
recreation infrastructure.  
Policy 8.1: Maintain the existing standards in the Development Code that require 
developers to provide pedestrian walkways or nonmotorized trails as recommended by 
the Snyderville Basin Special Recreation District and/or the Summit County Engineer. 
Strategy 8.1.1: Improve the pedestrian and bicycle circulation standards in the 
Development Code so that amenities within a development can be more easily 
accessed.  
Strategy 8.1.2: Enhance street and public space safety by working with the 
Transportation Department to ensure street lighting is provided in low-visibility 
areas, street crossing areas contain pedestrian signals and safety islands, and 
traffic calming measures are in place that prioritize pedestrians and bicyclists. 
Policy 8.2: Foster regional recreational planning and interagency cooperation through 
annual meetings with, but not limited to, local trail organizations, Park City Recreation, 
the Snyderville Basin Special Recreation District, the Summit County Planning 
Department, Summit County Lands and Open Space, and the Summit County Health 
53
   
 
   
 
Department. Meeting discussion should include future developments and opportunities 
for those developments to hold recreation connections and opportunities. 
Policy 8.3: Ensure that trails connect with Park City Municipal’s trail system and new 
trails in Eastern Summit County, Wasatch County, Morgan County, and the City of 
Hideout.  
OBJECTIVE B: Maintain the existing standards in the Development Code that requires developers 
to provide neighborhood park facilities in a manner to meet the specific recreation demands 
generated.  
Policy 8.4: Work with the Snyderville Basin Special Recreation District to add thresholds 
for reasonable recreation needs to the Development Code; thresholds should aid in 
reducing demand at existing recreation facilities.  
Strategy 8.4.1: Create clear standards in the Development Code for installation 
of recreation equipment and trail development to ensure it can be used for 
people of all ages and abilities and connects to Basin Recreation’s trail system. 
Policy 8.5: Require that new, neighborhood-level recreation infrastructure be 
constructed and maintained by the developer or HOA.  
Strategy 8.5.1: Require recreation facility management plans for new 
neighborhood level recreation infrastructure with applicable land use permits.  
OBJECTIVE C: Actively and equitably address gaps in recreation services.  
Policy 8.6: By working in conjunction with the Snyderville Basin Special Recreation 
District and other recreation providers, ensure gaps in services are up-to-date and 
available for developers to find and consider in their projects.  
Policy 8.7: Identify suitable locations for new public parks in areas in the Snyderville 
Basin that currently lack public park spaces.  
Strategy 8.7.1: Coordinate with the Snyderville Basin Special Recreation District 
regarding the location and construction of future park spaces.  
Policy 8.8: Ensure that sufficient, appropriate lands conserved for open space can also 
be used for recreation.  
OBJECTIVE D: Achieve a balance between open space strictly for wildlife and ecological 
preservation, open space used for passive recreation, and open space used for active recreation.  
Policy 8.9: Continue to engage the public and subject matter experts to identify which 
lands preserved as open space are the most valued for their ecological characteristics.  
Policy 8.10: Work with the Utah Division of Wildlife to identify potential risks of 
recreation in wildlife corridors.  
54
   
 
   
 
OBJECTIVE E: Preserve public access to forests, riparian corridors, and fishable streams, including 
East Canyon Creek and Silver Creek, for recreation opportunities.  
Policy 8.11: Establish a zoning overlay to facilitate the development of linear parkways 
and corridors, promoting environmentally responsible development along stream 
corridors while preserving access for recreational users.   
Policy 8.12: Pursue grant funding and partnership with private landowners adjacent to 
streams for stream cleanup and restoration, and community programming.  
Policy 8.13: Provide adequate regulations for trailheads and trailhead parking to 
facilitate resident and visitor access to these backcountry areas.  
Strategy 8.13.1: Create requirements for any new development or 
redevelopment adjacent to forest areas to ensure appropriate access to the back 
country through trail connections and open space view corridors. 
Policy 8.14: Recreation and trail system improvements should be designed with the 
intent to protect and enhance environmental and community health.  
OBJECTIVE G: Ensure parks and community facilities are designed to reduce negative health 
impacts.   
Policy 8.15: Require plans for natural or manmade shade structures to reduce risk of 
skin cancer and heat-related health effects by decreasing direct UV light exposure. 
Strategy 8.15.1: Establish standards in the Development Code that require 
shade structures when certain conditions are present, or thresholds are met. 
Policy 8.16: Recognize the desirability of varied recreational opportunities to meet the 
broad range of health, wellness, and leisure interests of Basin residents and visitors.  
OBJECTIVE      H: Encourage recreational activities that depend on specific outdoor environments 
or indoor facility conditions. 
Policy 8.17: Promote and encourage horseback riding and other equestrian uses; 
equestrian trails should be designed to avoid “land locking” horse owners and provide 
them with trail access to appropriate areas.  
Policy 8.18: Before paving trails for active transportation improvements, thoughtfully 
consider the needs of equestrian users and winter recreationists.  
OBJECTIVE I: Ensure that the preferences of people of all ages, abilities, races, ethnicities, and 
religions are considered in the development of new recreation infrastructure.  
Policy 8.19: Diversify opportunities and infrastructure in existing parks to adequately 
reflect the cultural preferences of the community.  
55
   
 
   
 
OBJECTIVE J: Ensure land use decisions, development patterns, and housing and transportation 
policies support the community’s physical, social, and cultural health and wellbeing.  
Policy 8.20: Support physical and mental healthcare for people of all abilities.  
OBJECTIVE K: Ensure healthcare facilities are appropriately located near population clusters.  
Policy 8.21: Coordinate with the Summit County Health Department to understand the 
demand for new healthcare facilities.  
Strategy 8.21.1: Review and update the Snyderville Basin Development Code to 
reduce land use barriers for new neighborhood-sized healthcare clinics or 
mobile health units. 
Policy 8.22: Improve public and active transportation options to existing and proposed 
healthcare facilities.  
Policy 8.23: Ensure new trail connections prioritize connections to public spaces 
that foster social interaction.  
OBJECTIVE L: Provide opportunities for essential workers in healthcare industries to live 
affordably in the community.  
Policy 8.24: Ensure housing deed-restrictions include healthcare workers as 
eligible candidates to rent or own an affordable unit.  
     OBJECTIVE M: Improve public transportation and active transportation trails so that walking, 
cycling, and taking transit becomes as desirable and/or efficient as driving a personal vehicle.  
Policy 8.25: Ensure that workers in the community have adequate walking and cycling 
access from their residence or workplace to local businesses, parks, or essential services.  
Policy 8.26: Consider providing transit or Summit Bike Share passes to local businesses 
as incentives for new developments that prioritize transit, walking, and bicycling.  
Policy 8.27: Develop a culture for walking, bicycling, and taking public transit.  
OBJECTIVE N: Continue to use and improve the Historic Union Pacific Rail Trail for      active 
recreation and transportation, historic habitat preservation, and for community events.  
Policy 8.28: Ensure the Rail Trail remains safe, accessible, and convenient for community 
members.  
Strategy 8.28.1: Create a unified management and maintenance plan to ensure 
the Rail Trail remains accessible, convenient, and safe for all users.  
Policy 8.29: Create and adopt a Rail Trail Corridor Overlay Zone to codify the policies and 
land uses identified in the Summit County Rail Trail Corridor Plan.  
56
   
 
   
 
 
OBJECTIVE O: Ensure deed-restricted affordable housing is safe and appropriately maintained.  
Policy 8.30: Work with the Summit County Housing Authority to ensure that 
developments with new affordable housing have long-term management plans to 
ensure long-term health and safety for residents.  
Policy 8.31: Work with the Summit County Health Department to ensure smoke free 
policies are in place for any affordable housing developments approved through rezones 
or density bonuses. Smoke-free policies should establish a distance from any entrance, 
window, or amenity to the development.  
Policy 8.32: Work with HOAs or property managers to actively enforce no-idling policies 
in housing developments.  
 
  
57
   
 
   
 
Chapter 10: Public Facilities and Services 
The Public Facilities and Services element is intended to guide and outline the future development and 
distribution of various public facilities (such as parks, libraries, schools, etc.) to ensure there are 
Adequate facilities and services for current and future residents as the Basin grows. 
Context 
The Snyderville Basin has grown significantly over the years and there is a need to assess the existing 
public facilities and services and determine what additional facilities and services could be planned for 
and provided as the Basin continues to grow. Facilities and services are spread between Kimball Junction 
and the Quinn’s Junction area, with many other facilities within Park City Municipal. Also included is the 
Summit County Health Department’s mobile health clinic. 
Existing Conditions 
Currently, there are XYZ public facilities within the unincorporated Snyderville Basin, including but not 
limited to one public library, XYZ public schools, XYZ public parks, and XYZ landfills. 
Map of County Buildings/landfill 
A majority of the unincorporated Snyderville Basin is served by Snyderville Basin Water Reclamation 
District for sewer. There are XYZ neighborhoods that are on individual septic systems or other private 
sewer systems.  
Map of Sewer locations Per Maddy: in water element 
There are currently three larger private water companies (Mountain Regional Water, Summit Water 
Distribution Company, and Gorgoza Mutual Water Company) that provide culinary water for the majority 
of the unincorporated Snyderville Basin. Additionally, there are several neighborhoods that operate on 
individual well water or are serviced by smaller private water companies. 
  Map of water companies and service areas Per Maddy: in water element 
All of the Snyderville Basin is served by Park City Police Department and Park City Fire District. 
Map of Police & Fire District stations 
Community Engagement Feedback 
● Approximately sixty-nine percent (69%) of respondents believe that incentivizing redevelopment 
in strategic areas near public facilities, transit, trails and other services is appropriate or very 
appropriate way for the County to encourage development of new housing. 
 
58
   
 
   
 
Public Facilities and Services Goals, Objectives, Policies and Strategies 
GOAL: Maintain adequate service levels regarding services and facilities that are best operated at the 
local government or quasi-governmental level. These services could include: essential health and 
safety services such as fire, ambulance, law enforcement, public health, utilities and infrastructure; 
and other services such as libraries, parks and recreation, public transportation, weed or pest 
management, and waste management and recycling. 
OBJECTIVE A: Coordinate and collaborate with applicable service providers to identify 
acceptable service levels and develop standards for measuring service delivery success. 
Policy 10.1: Ensure that public health and safety services and facilities are available to 
citizens dispersed throughout the Basin. 
Strategy 10.1.1: In cooperation with the Summit County Health Department, 
Summit County Emergency Management, Summit County Sheriff’s Department, 
and the Park City Fire District, identify key locations for public health and safety 
service centers to optimize coverage across the Basin. 
Strategy 10.1.2: Assess whether essential facilities and service centers are 
prepared to remain operational and support the community during climate-
related or other disasters. This includes their ability to continue providing power, 
water, food, heating, cooling, and other critical health and safety services. 
Policy 10.2: Essential facilities should be designed to provide an acceptable level of 
service to the peak service demand. Other facilities should be designed to accommodate 
average demand. Temporarily reduced service levels may occur at times of peak service 
demand; however, reductions should not produce a meaningful threat to public safety. 
OBJECTIVE B: Coordinate with applicable service providers to ensure that plans for future 
infrastructure, public facilities, and public services are aligned. 
Policy 10.3: Ensure that public facilities and services will be developed, operational, and 
available to serve new development. The County should not approve new development 
where existing facilities are inadequate, unless the applicant can demonstrate that all 
necessary public facilities will be installed or adequately financed and maintained 
(through fees or other means), 
Policy 10.4: Encourage widespread use of the latest communications technology. This 
should include supporting the development of facilities and infrastructure for broadband 
service. 
Policy 10.5: Coordinate with utility providers to ensure they are planning for facilities 
consistent with this plan. 
Strategy 10.5.1: Hold quarterly meetings with utility providers to inform them of 
new development proposals so they can evaluate their future demand needs. 
59
   
 
   
 
OBJECTIVE C: Developers should pay their proportional share of the costs of future facilities and 
services necessitated by new development. Costs for added facilities and infrastructure because 
of new development should not be passed on to existing residents and businesses. 
Policy 10.6: Ensure that new development is provided with, or is located near, existing or 
future planned adequate infrastructure such as reliable water and sewage treatment 
prior to development approval. 
Strategy 10.6.1: Develop a detailed map that identifies current infrastructure 
(water, sewage, electricity, roads) and future infrastructure projects in the 
Snyderville Basin. 
OBJECTIVE D: Ensure that an adequate and diverse supply of childcare facilities and services are 
available to parents who live and work in the Snyderville Basin. 
Policy 10.7: The County should streamline processing and permit regulations to promote 
the development of childcare facilities. 
Policy 10.8: The County should coordinate and integrate childcare programs with 
housing and social programs whenever possible. 
Policy 10.9: The County should coordinate with the Park City School District to establish 
and maintain after school programs and programs for school breaks. 
Policy 10.10: The County should promote the coordination of senior citizen programs 
and childcare programs wherever feasible and appropriate. 
OBJECTIVE E: Promote publicly accessible community facilities and services to provide 
educational, community, and social engagement opportunities.  
Policy 10.11: Encourage co-location and integration of parks, schools, civic facilities, 
health service providers, and other community-oriented facilities to support community 
cohesion and leverage limited resources. 
Policy 10.12: Coordinate with the Park City School District and Park City Municipal to 
provide joint use of County, City and school facilities for community activities. 
 
 
 
 
60
1 
 
Supplemental Chapter: Sustainable Development, Water Use, and Agriculture 
I. Introduction  
In recent years, drought, climate change, and rapid population growth have placed increasing 
strain on Utah’s limited water resources. On April 21, 2022, Governor Spencer J. Cox issued an 
Executive Order declaring a state of emergency due to drought conditions in Utah. That summer, 
the Great Salt Lake also reached its lowest levels ever recorded1. In response to the declaration, 
the governor’s office released an action plan for water, which included better integrating water 
and land use planning at the local level 2. As a result of this increasing pressure on the state’s 
water resources, in 2022 the Utah state legislature passed SB 110: Water as Part of a General 
Plan. SB 110 requires municipalities and counties to develop general plans that consider the 
effect of de velopment on water demand and water infrastructure, methods of reducing water 
demand and per capita water use for existing and future development, and potential changes to 
local government operations to reduce water waste. 3 This section of the Snyderville Basin 
General Plan meets the intent of both SB 110 and other statutory general plan requirements, 
including agricultural protection (UT Code § 17-27a-403).
4   
In Summit County, climate change is expected to result in more frequent and severe droughts, 
thus increasing water scarcity in the County. According to a Woodwell Climate Research Center 
Climate Risk Assessment Report for Summit County, in the past two decades (2000–2020), central 
Summit County experienced severe drought less than 20% of the time. By mid- century (2040–
2060), severe drought stress will increase to less than 30% of the time. 5 As of September 2025, 
98% of Summit County was experiencing severe or extreme drought, according to the U.S. 
Drought Monitor.6   
Summit County also continues to grow – albeit more slowly than much of the State. By 2050, the 
population is projected to reach 55,373, a 19.5% increase from the County’s 2025 population of 
approximately 44,556. This is a growth rate of approximately 0.78%  per year.
7 In the past few 
decades, the Snyderville Basin (“the Basin”) has transitioned from a rural valley to a primarily 
urbanized community. Future growth is primarily expected to occur in the residential sector, with 
some increase in commercial activity, especially within Park City Municipal.
8  
 
1 https://www.usgs.gov/media/before-after/great-salt-lake-comparison-1986-and-2022  
2 https://gopb.utah.gov/waterplan/  
3 https://le.utah.gov/~2022/bills/static/SB0110.html  
4 https://law.justia.com/codes/utah/2017/title-10/chapter-9a/part-4/section-403/  
5 https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1t7MOCITiMmhZc9MI2nf -Hj0e4tEBYA0-  
6 https://www.drought.gov/states/utah/county/Summit  
7 https://gardner.utah.edu/utah-demographics/population-projections/state-and-county-projections-tableau/  
8 See Appendix B: Summit County Water Provider Data 
61
2 
 
According to the Woodwell report’s water scarcity index, much of the County faces high water 
scarcity, driven by unsustainable groundwater pumping in the East and high projected water 
stress throughout the County, defined as the ratio of water withdrawals to available renewable 
water.9  
Summit County residents have already faced challenges associated with water scarcity. In 
October 2021, a prolonged drought brought Rockport Reservoir down to 26% of total capacity. 
Facing very low reservoir conditions, in 2022, Weber Basin Water Conservanc y District 
(“WBWCD”) – a wholesale water supplier within the Weber River drainage, which supplies some 
of the water resources for the County - reduced their contract allocations by 10% for indoor use, 
60% for outdoor irrigation, and 40% for agricultural us e. Two of the Basin’s water providers – 
Mountain Regional and Summit Water –  responded with mandatory water use restrictions for 
their customers and increased water rates.10  
One of Summit County’s core values is preservation: preserving our land, water, air, and culture. 
Water underpins the health of our environment, economy, and people. Seated at the headwaters 
of the Weber Basin Watershed, Summit County is committed to ensuring a resilient water future 
for its residents, farmers, busin esses, and visitors while protecting the County’s critical rivers, 
streams, and wildlife and doing its part to support its downstream beneficiaries, most 
importantly the Great Salt Lake. To do so, the County will continue to take action to protect water 
quality and support the strong integration of water conservation and efficiency into land use 
planning through policy, programming, education, restoration, and stakeholder engagement. 
The following polished water element outlines the Basin’s existing water conditions, actions that 
have already been taken in the Basin to improve water resiliency, and new goals and strategies 
for reducing water demand in existing and new development.  
While large-scale grazing and farming has diminished, agriculture continues to shape the Basin’s 
heritage, landscape, and sense of place. Remaining agricultural lands, equestrian operations, and 
specialty farms provide community benefits including open spa ce, local food opportunities, 
ecosystem services, and a connection to the area’s history. Because agriculture is closely tied to 
water resources, an agricultural component is included within the Basin’s Water Element. Even 
small-scale agriculture influences how water is used, conserved, and managed. The policies and 
strategies below emphasize not only the protection of remaining agricultural lands but also the 
need to integrate water efficiency and stewardship into all agricultural practices. 
 
9 https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1t7MOCITiMmhZc9MI2nf -Hj0e4tEBYA0- 
10https://www.summitcountyutah.gov/DocumentCenter/View/20539/MRW -2023-Tentative-Budget-and-
Proposed-2022-Amended-Budget,  
https://www.mtnregionalwaterutah.gov/files/9669127c5/2022%2BMRW%2BRules%2Band%2BRegulations%2BFIN
AL%2BSIGNED%2B%28adopted%2B12_7_22%29.pdf  
62
3 
 
Both the Utah Housing Strategic Plan and the Utah Resource and Infrastructure Housing Capacity 
Analysis report indicate that water availability is a constraint on the development of affordable 
and attainable housing in the coming years.  Both reports call for increased water conservation 
efforts. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 Water Related Land Use 
 
 
 
 
 
63
4 
 
II. Stakeholder Engagement 
This section – and the identified goals and strategies –  were developed with input from state 
agencies, water providers, community members, and other stakeholders.  
In 2022, the County participated in the inaugural Utah Growing Water Smart workshop 11, a 
program funded in part by the Utah Division of Water Resources. Several of the actions identified 
during this collaborative workshop are included in this water element. The County received 
Growing Water Smart Technical Assistance to develop this water element from Western 
Resource Advocates, as well as guidance on this planning effort from staff at the Utah Division of 
Water Resources (DWRe). In Fall 2024, Summit County applied for and received funding from 
DWRe to support mapping and visualization associated with the water element.  
Basin community members have also been engaged in this process. In 2024, approximately 200 
Basin residents provided input on the General Plan through an Our Summit  visioning survey. 
Additionally, on October 1
st, 2024, the County held a General Plan Community Open House in 
Kimball Junction to solicit input on General Plan priorities, including those related to water 
preservation and conservation. 
The survey results and Open House feedback -  which will also be described in other sections of 
this General Plan - indicated that respondents are concerned about unmitigated growth, urban 
sprawl, and water security.  When asked what issues respondents were  most concerned about 
when considering Summit County’s future, availability of water supply ranked fourth out of 
eighteen responses, only behind traffic, preservation of open space, and not enough 
development control. Water ranked #1 -  with 35% ranking water first - when asked which 
resources needed the most attention in order to improve or maintain the quality of life in 
Snyderville Basin. And 85% of respondents said the rate of growth in the Basin was too fast or 
faster than they’d like. 
 
11 https://water.utah.gov/growing-water-smart/  
64
5 
 
 
Figure 2. Priority Ranking of Snyderville Basin Resources 
 
Additionally, when presented with strategies for reducing water use the most popular options 
were incentivizing agricultural operators to install efficient irrigation systems (85%), reducing 
setbacks to limit the amount of irrigated land (75%), and incenti vizing the sealing of irrigation 
ditches and canals (67%). These strategies need  to be carefully considered before being 
implemented. 
County staff also solicited feedback on specific strategies and educational opportunities from 
Utah State University Extension staff in Summit County. This feedback and survey results have 
been incorporated into both the Basin and Eastern Summit water elements. 
Separately, the Summit County Health Department conducted a countywide survey in 2024 to 
inform the Community Health Assessment. About a third (35.2%) of the survey respondents said 
they were somewhat concerned about their drinking water quality, and 16.4% said they were 
very concerned. Additionally, in May 2024, the Summit County Health Department facilitated 
group discussions on the impact of a changing climate on personal and community health to 
gather input for the Community Health Assessment. Key theme s that emerged from these 
discussions included: drought and its impact on crops, livestock, and the local agricultural 
65
6 
 
economy; water anxiety and a sentiment that County and state attitudes concerning water are 
overly optimistic; and a need to shift towards water wise landscaping and irrigation. 
In Spring 2025, County staff contacted the six Snyderville Basin water providers via email and 
phone calls to complete a short survey with information about their water system, water supply 
planning, and water conservation efforts. The six Basin providers include Gorgoza Mutual Water 
(“Gorgoza”), Summit Water Distribution Company (“Summit Water”), Mountain Regional Water 
Special Service District (“Mountain Regional”), Park City Water System (“Park City”), Summit 
County Service Area 3 (“SCSA3”), and High Valley Water Company (“High Valley”). Staff received 
responses from three water providers representing 60% of the population served in the Basin. 
Additional water provider data was gathered from available Water Conservation Plans, water 
provider websites, annual water concurrency reporting, and through the Utah Division of Water 
Rights. Collated responses and data are available in Appendix B: Summit County Water Provider 
Data for Snyderville Basin. 
Canal and irrigation companies with mailing addresses available were sent a postcard on October 
24, 2025, informing them about the water element process and requesting feedback on the 
drafted plan. They were also provided with staff contact information. On e provider responded 
with comments as of December 4, 2025. A list of all irrigation and canal companies and their 
status in the Basin are below.
 
 Company Name   Inv Status    
Community Water Company Piped 
Gorgoza Mutual Water Company Piped 
Summit Water Distribution Company Other Exempt 
High Valley Water Company Under 5 CFS 
  Table 1. Irrigation and Canal Companies in Snyderville Basin 
 
Additionally, the County met with key agricultural stakeholders to understand current conditions 
and future needs. Staff consulted with the Utah Department of Agriculture and Food (UDAF), the 
Kamas Valley  Conservation District, and the Summit Conservation District. These discussions 
focused on irrigation infrastructure, agricultural water rights, conservation programs, and 
opportunities to support producers. 
 
A draft water element was sent to internal and external stakeholders for review and analysis.  An 
updated draft was presented to the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission on October 14, 2025.  
Additionally, the draft plan was available for public review and comment between October 9 and 
17 and the polished draft was available for review and comment between October 24 and 
November 5.  
66
7 
 
Between October 9 and 17, we received six public comments on the Snyderville Basin water 
element.  The suggestions that could be implemented have been updated in the plan. Comments 
also revealed some areas in which additional data is needed.  Please see Appendix A for the public 
comments.    
III. Existing Conditions  
In the Snyderville Basin, water services are provided by six water providers to a population of 
35,699 people through 16,165 metered connections and private wells. 
Water Provider Metered Connections 
Mountain Regional 6,067 
Park CIty Municipal 5,480 
Summit Water 2,500 
Gorgoza 1,646 
High Valley 255 
Summit County Service area 3 217 
Total 16,165 
Table 2. Water Provider existing metered connections. 
Weber Basin Water Conservancy District is the wholesale water supplier for the Snyderville Basin, 
both supplying water to retail providers and helping to manage the sale of surplus retail supplies.  
67
8 
 
 
Figure 3: Map of Snyderville Basin Service Providers 
68
9 
 
 
Figure 4 Number of Connections per Basin Water Provider 
 
According to data from the Division of Water Rights, there are two private wells for industrial use 
and two private wells for secondary use in the Basin. For those wells that reported in 2024, there 
was an estimated 180 acre-feet total usage.  
System Name  Type Source Name  2024 usage (acre-feet) 
Geneva Rock (Park City) Industrial Park City Well  36.24 
GGC Member Acquisition, Inc 
(Golf Club) 
Secondary  Greyhawk Well #2 3.391116021 
 
SPH21, LLC  
(Canyons Golf Club) 
Secondary Well No. 4b 
 
140.371028 
 
   Table 3. Private wells for secondary use 
There are many smaller privately owned wells that do not currently report to the DWR within the 
Basin for which we do not have data for. 
69
10 
 
Based on a 3 -year average from 2020 --2022, total water demand in the Basin is approximately 
11,194 acre-feet per year. 12 The total annual available supplies in 2020 ranged from 12,484 to 
12,777 acre-feet based on a low -end and high- end estimate. This means that current supplies 
exceed current demands across the Basin. At the individual provider level, the picture is slightl y 
more complex. Park City currently has the most robust excess supply and leases some of this 
surplus - approximately 6% of their supply as of 2024 - to WBWCD  to sell to Summit Water 
Distribution Company.13 
Across the Basin, 68% of water is sourced from numerous groundwater wells or spring water and 
32% is sourced from surface water. Most of this surface water comes from the Weber River in 
Eastern Summit County via the Lost Canyon Project and Rockport Reservo ir. Rockport Reservoir 
is owned and operated by Weber Basin Water Conservancy District. In Park City, approximately 
40% of the water supply is sourced from the City’s old mining tunnels, which function similarly to 
groundwater wells.  
 
Acre foot - An acre foot of water is a measurement used to describe large volumes of water. 
One acre foot is the amount of water it would take to cover one acre of land in one foot of 
water. This is 325,851 gallons of water, or enough water for two average US households per 
year.  
 
Two providers – Mountain Regional and Park City – provide secondary water service for outdoor 
irrigation. The secondary water system in the Basin is relatively small, accounting for 1,260 acre-
feet of water use -  or 10% of overall demand - with much of tha t water used for irrigation at 
Promontory golf courses. Both of these secondary systems are fully metered.  
Per the WBWCD’s 2024 Supply and Demand Study for the Basin, gallons per capita per day (GPCD) 
use in the Basin is 155, with an adjustment to account for high visitor numbers. This is significantly 
lower than Utah’s 2019 statewide average of 223 GPCD. Part of this variation is due to Summit 
County’s high elevation and thus, lower landscape irrigation demands.
14 Notably, the visitation 
adjustment accounts for an equivalent population increase of 65,000 people -   assuming 2.6 
million visitors over 4-months during the winter for an average stay of 3 -days. This signifies the 
significant role that visitors have on water use in the Basin. 
 
12 WBWCD Supply and Demand Study, 2024, Table 2-2  
13 https://parkcityut.portal.civicclerk.com/event/269/files/attachment/7816  
14 https://water.utah.gov/latest-water-use-numbers-posted-to-revamped-open-water-data-website/  
70
11 
 
 
Gallons per Capita per Day (GPCD) - A measurement of the average amount of water used by 
an individual in an area’s population in one day.  
 
Even so, outdoor water use accounts for a significant amount of water use in the Basin. 56% of 
water is used indoors and 44% is applied outdoors. In Park City, almost 70% of total summer 
consumption is used for irrigation.  
 
 
Figure 5 Basin Water Provider GPCD
15 
Most of the Basin’s water is used in the residential sector (59%), followed by the commercial 
sector (21%), the industrial sector which includes snowmaking (16%), and the institutional sector 
(3%). In Park City, 13% of the City’s water supply is used for snowmaking.  
 
 
15 GPCD figure is not available for SCAS3.  
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
Summit Water
Distribution
Company
High Valley
Water Co
Mountain
Regional
Water SSD
Gorgoza
Mutual Water
Park City
Water System
71
12 
 
Average system water loss is 19% of treated water, which is 5% higher than the 14% national 
average.16   
 
Figure 6 Basin Water Use by Sector 
 
 
Wastewater Treatment in the Basin 
Snyderville Basin Water Reclamation District (“SBWRD”) collects and treats wastewater in the East Canyon 
and Silver Creek water reclamation facilities and it is then placed back into East Canyon Creek and Silver 
Creek. On average, SBWRD treats 3.5 million gallons per day (MGD) - or 3,920,650 acre-feet per year - and 
has capacity to treat 6.0 MGD. Properties that are not connected to SBWRD wastewater lines use private, 
onsite wastewater treatment systems (or septic systems). Summit County’s Environmental Health 
Department maintains a septic program to ensure the safe design and permitting of septic systems.17 
Centralized wastewater treatment is often considered beneficial for residents and businesses given the 
consistency of service and the lower maintenance costs. It also supports Summit County’s goal to protect 
and restore local stream flows. New individual parcels that are within 300 feet of a public sewer connection 
are required by County code to tie into SBWRD’s system.18 New subdivisions may be required to tie in based 
on the aggregate size of all the lots and the distance to the connection. The Silver Creek and Highland Estates 
 
16 https://www.epa.gov/sustainable-water-infrastructure/water-efficiency-water-suppliers  
17 https://summitcountyhealth.org/permitting-new-septic-system/ 
18 https://www.summitcountyutah.gov/DocumentCenter/View/24971/Summit -County-Code-PDF-#page=309 
59%21%
16%
3%
Residential Commercial Industrial Institutional
72
13 
 
neighborhoods may be appropriate locations for extended SBWRD services given their proximity to the 
public sewer connection.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 7: Map of Snyderville Basin Water Reclamation District Service Area 
 
 
73
14 
 
Water Rights in Summit County 
Water rights are essential for Summit County to ensure legal access to water for municipal, 
agricultural, recreational, and environmental uses. A comprehensive water rights plan 
assists the County in the management of existing resources efficiently, avoids forfeiture due 
to nonuse, and adapts to changing land use and infrastructure needs. A proactive plan also 
supports long-term sustainability, compliance with state regulations, and equitable 
distribution of water across County assets. 
Understanding and managing water rights in Utah is incredibly complex. Water rights are 
governed by Utah Code Title 73, which declares all water in the state to be public property 
(§73-1-1) and establishes beneficial use as the basis, measure, and limit of all rights to use 
water (§73-1-3). Rights may be lost through abandonment or nonuse over a seven-year 
period unless a nonuse application is filed (§73-1-4). Water rights are acquired and modified 
through formal applications to appropriate, change, or exchange water, and must be 
actively maintained through filings and compliance with deadlines. 
It is also important to distinguish water rights from water shares. A water right is a legal 
entitlement to divert and use water from a specific source, while a water share represents 
ownership in a water company or irrigation entity and entitles the holder to a portion of the 
company’s water, subject to its rules and infrastructure. Water shares do not automatically 
confer a standalone water right and often require separate change applications to be used 
outside their original context (§73-1-11). While a comprehensive water rights analysis is not 
a component of this Water Element Plan, Summit County is actively working toward that 
goal for all County-owned water rights. 
 
III. Future Water Supply and Demand  
A key component of the Snyderville Basin’s future water security is based on the Western Summit 
County Project Master Agreement which was adopted in 2013 by the three largest providers -  
Park City, Summit Water, and Mountain Regional.
19 The agreement ended a two-decade “water 
war” in the County by giving authority to Weber Basin Water Conservancy District to ensure 
water for the Basin for the short and long-term.20 The agreement requires the three providers to 
share their surplus water resources with each other. If all existing water resources are exhausted 
 
19 https://parkcity.gov/Home/ShowDocument?id=37053  
20 https://www.kpcw.org/local-news/2019-04-02/summit-water-distribution-company-planning-for-the-future  
74
15 
 
and additional supplies are needed, Weber Basin Water Conservancy District  becomes 
responsible for building an additional water importation project into the Basin.  
Mountain Regional – which functions as both a retail and wholesale provider in the Basin - is the 
only Basin provider that is projecting additional water demand and a need for significantly 
expanded treatment capacity. Mountain Regional is currently updati ng its Signal Hill Treatment 
Plant in Promontory –  which draws water from Rockport Reservoir – to increase treatment 
capacity from 2.6 million gallons per day to 5.5 million gallons per day, more than double the 
current capacity. Given the District’s repor ted current GPCD of 104 and 14% water loss, this 
additional capacity is equivalent to the water demands of 24,300 residents. The project will 
reportedly support new growth and create system redundancy, allowing Mountain Regional to 
take its full allocation from the Weber River.21   
Beyond the Signal Hill Treatment Plant, there isn’t an anticipated need for additional storage or 
supply acquisition in the Basin according to the water providers’ current planning horizons. In 
Park City, this is likely due to the City’s robust water supply portfolio which exceeds current 
demands. The Gorgoza and High Valley water service areas consider themselves fully built out, 
and thus unlikely to experience new demands.22 Gorgoza, Summit Water, and Mountain Regional 
(on the retail provider-side) have established water conservation targets to reduce overall system 
demands in 2030 and 2050. They aim to achieve these targets through a variety of water 
conservation strategies such as water loss control and conservation-oriented water rates
23. This 
is further outlined in Section IV. If these targets come to fruition, it would mean that there is little 
– if any - anticipated increase in water demands amongst these three providers.  
As shown in Figure 8, WBWCD’s 2024 Supply and Demand Study provides Snyderville Basin-wide 
water supply and demand scenarios through 2070. Based on this analysis, under a low- supply 
scenario (left), demand would exceed supply unless the Basin was able to achieve ambitious state 
water conservation goals.  This is represented by the Demand 6 line where conservation trends 
are strong, and climate and population trends are baseline. Under a high-supply scenario (right), 
demand would only  exceed supplies in a high demand scenario. This is represented by the 
Demand 1 line where both climate change trends and population projections are high and water 
conservation trends are weak. 
 
21 https://www.kpcw.org/summit-county/2025-07-08/summit-countys-largest-water-company-says-43m-bond-
will-double-capacity  
22 Personal Communication, Andy Garland, Mountain Regional 
23  
75
16 
 
 
Figure 8 WBWCD’s Supply & Demand Scenarios for the Snyderville Basin24 
Scenario 1 – high demand  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Scenario 4 – baseline   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
Scenario 6 – State goals  . – . – . – . – . – . –  
  
As demonstrated by this analysis, a key factor that could influence future water security is the 
impact of more persistent multi-year droughts on both supply (i.e., snowpack, reservoir storage, 
groundwater levels) and demand (i.e., more water used for cool ing and irrigation when 
temperatures rise). If Utah’s drought conditions in 2021 -2022 offer any indication, 25 future 
 
24 In Figure 8, the “Snyderville Basin Supply Project” is an agreement that allowed Weber Basin Water Conservancy 
District to acquire the use of 5,000 AF of East Canyon Reservoir water from Davis and Weber Counties Canal Co. 
(DWCCC) for use in the Snyderville Basin. This supply is prioritized for use in the Snyderville Basin through 2040.  
25 https://www.drought.gov/states/utah  
76
17 
 
droughts could result in mandatory water use restrictions, drought -related rate increases, and 
even building moratoriums (as seen in Eastern Summit County). Given this uncertainty, it’s critical 
to invest in long -term, demand -side efficiencies for new and existing development that can 
improve the Basin’s resilience to drought. 
An additional factor that may influence water security is the impact of the 2025 Statewide 
Strategic Housing Plan on the Basin’s current planned growth and development.26 Possible tactics 
under consideration –  such as eliminating or limiting impact fees for new Accessory Dwelling 
Units (ADUs) or implementing flexible parking requirements –  may result in additional 
development pressure in Summit County. 27 While this growth will not necessarily equate to 
additional water use, if it’s allowed to occur without enacting strong water efficiency policy and 
requirements in Summit County then it could lead to additional water supply pressure. 
 
Groundwater Source Protection in Summit County 
In 2019, The Summit County Board of Health adopted a groundwater source protection 
ordinance to prevent contaminants like chemicals and bacteria from entering public 
groundwater supplies. The ordinance identifies groundwater source protection zones 
surrounding a groundwater source of drinking water. New development within these zones is 
subject to additional review from the relevant public water supplier to help determine whether 
the development could result in potential pollution or contamination.  
 
26 The Statewide Strategic Housing Plan was in development at the time this Plan was written.  
27 https://www.utah.gov/pmn/files/1277599.pdf  
28 https://www.summitcountyutah.gov/DocumentCenter/View/19235/SWMP -Unincorporated-Summit-County-
2021-Final  
Stormwater Management in Summit County 
In addition to this General Plan, the County has a Stormwater Management Plan reviewed and 
updated annually, as needed, that outlines the County’s stormwater system and goal to reduce 
the amount of pollutants entering streams, lakes and rivers as a result of runoff from 
residential, commercial, industrial, and community areas.
28 The Summit County Stormwater 
Division works diligently to protect waterways by promoting practices that reduce stormwater 
runoff and pollutants entering waterways. This work includes both regulatory and permitting 
aspects as well as community education and outreach, such as through fairs, events and tabling 
activities. 
77
18 
 
 
IV. Water Conservation  
Summit County and Snyderville Basin water providers have taken important steps in recent years 
to conserve water and reduce water waste. The four largest providers – Mountain Regional, Park 
City, SWDC, and Gorgoza –  all have Water Conservation Plans, as mandated by Utah’s Water 
Conservation Act.29 The four plans were last updated in 2020 and are due to be updated again in 
2025.30 
Each of these four providers has established unique water use efficiency targets. Three of them 
– Mountain Regional, Summit Water, and Gorgoza – target overall system demand reductions 
which means they have established a goal to use less water systemwide in the future than they’re 
currently using. Three providers – Mountain Regional, Summit Water, and Park City - have water 
loss reduction targets.   
o Mountain Regional’s goal for its retail system is to reduce overall system demands by 
10% by 2050, to reduce system wide water loss to 10% by 2026, and to see 66% 
engagement with their Advanced Metering Infrastructure Application
31 by 2026.  
o Park City’s goal is to achieve the State’s 25% GPCD reduction goal between 2000 and 
2025 and to reduce system water loss by 33% with water losses no higher than 22% 
by 2030.   
o SWDC’s goal is to reduce overall system demand by 10% by 2030 and to reduce 
system water loss to 13% by 2030.  
o Gorgoza’s goal is to reduce total water use by 20% by 2050.  
In the State’s Regional Water Conservation Report, the Weber River Region –  which includes 
Summit County – has a goal to reduce overall water use by 20% by 2030 and to lower regional 
GPCD from 250 in 2015 to 200 by 2030. 32 While Snyderville Basin water providers have already 
exceeded this GPCD goal, they have not established targets that would achieve 20% overall water 
use reduction by 2030. 
The most common water conservation strategies employed in the Snyderville Basin are inclining 
block rate structures and water loss control programs. Four of the providers – Gorgoza, Mountain 
Regional, Park City, and High Valley Water have inclining block rate structures for culinary water 
that financially incentivize water conservation by charging more per gallon as consumption 
increases. As of 2016, the State mandates that retail water providers establish an inclining block 
 
29 https://le.utah.gov/xcode/Title73/Chapter10/73-10-S32.html  
30 Utah’s Water Conservation Act mandates that Water Conservation Plans are updated every 5 years  
31 Advanced metering infrastructure offers frequent (e.g., hourly) water usage data that can be monitored to 
better understand water use. 
32 https://www.hansenallenluce.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/11/RWCG-Final-Report-ES.pdf  
78
19 
 
rate structure and a 2025 update requires retail providers to consider water conservation when 
setting rates.33 All of the providers emphasized the importance of reducing water loss through 
investments in strategies such as leak detection equipment, smart metering systems with 
associated customer portals to provide information on water use to customers (such as Eye  on 
Water and WaterSmart Software), and investments in replacing aging pipes and infrastructure.  
Water providers also leverage WBWCD’s incentive programs and educational materials to 
support their water conservation goals, with a particular emphasis on reducing outdoor water 
demand. All water customers in the Snyderville Basin are eligible to particip ate in the state’s 
landscape incentive program, managed by WBWCD.
34 The program incentivizes the replacement 
of turf with water-efficient landscaping. Between 2022 and 2025, 11 applicants received a total 
of $105,780 in funding and removed 42,312 square feet -  or approximately 1 acre -  of turf. 
WBWCD also provides rebates  for toilets and smart irrigation controllers. Between 2018 and 
2025, Basin applicants received 61 toilet rebates and 161 smart irrigation controllers rebates.  
Summit County, Mountain Regional Water, and Park City Municipal partner every year to bring 
the Rain Harvest program to the community. Since 2022, close to 200 rain barrels have been 
purchased by residents.35 Additional incentives and educational materials are available through 
Utah’s Division of Water Resources.36  
Several of the providers – along with Summit County -  also have recommended or required 
watering schedules –  such as allowing watering 2 -3 times per week and restricting watering in 
the heat of the day. Mountain Regional and Park City have Drought Response  Plans that include 
additional water use restrictions during drought periods. 
Finally, Summit County and the Snyderville Basin water providers are actively engaged in 
educating residents and visitors about water conservation. Organizations share water 
conservation information and programs on their webpages and through social media. As a water 
provider, Park City presents on water conservation at various forums such as Rotary, schools, 
property management firms, the Summit County | Park City Green Business Program, Recycle 
Utah events, and Homeowners Associations. Staff also conduct p hysical tours of their water 
treatment plant. 
 
33 https://le.utah.gov/%7E2016/bills/static/SB0028.html#73-10-32.5  
34 Landscape incentives are only available to those in communities that have adopted qualifying water efficient 
landscape ordinances for new constructions. Qualifying ordinances have been adopted in Park City and Snyderville 
Basin. 
35 https://utahrivers.org/rainharvest  
36 https://conservewater.utah.gov/  
79
20 
 
 
Figure 9 Conservation Lands in Snyderville Basin 
 
V. Water Smart New Development  
Summit County is committed to ensuring water resiliency, water quality, and the efficient use of 
water in new development. In 2016, the County adopted a Water Concurrency Ordinance for the 
Basin that requires water providers to demonstrate sufficient water to support new growth.37 It 
applies to all unincorporated areas of the Basin for connections of more than 15 units. Water 
providers are required to submit a will -serve letter that asserts they have adequate water 
available to serve new development proposals. The ordinance also re quires providers to submit 
 
37 https://summitcountyhealth.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/12/Water-Concurrency-Ordinance-FINAL.pdf  
80
21 
 
annual water supply, demand, and water loss data and to submit Water Conservation plans to 
the County to remain in good standing.38  
Summit County’s current development code is intended to protect the rural nature of the Basin, 
with low densities of one unit per twenty acres, and up to one unit per ten acres in certain 
instances. Town, village, and resort centers that allow for higher density and compactness – and 
result in lower water demand per unit -  are permitted and encouraged in designated locations.  
Clustered development is also encouraged to protect wetlands, riparian areas, steep slopes, 
ridgelines, and other environmentally sensitive areas wherever practicable. In some zones, a 
density incentive is provided for developments with units that are clustered on the development 
site plan and preserve at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the parcel as meaningful open space. 
Clustered development reduces water demand per unit, reduces infrastructure needs, and 
prevents sprawling developments, thus tempering unmitigated growth.  
Both the Snyderville Basin and Park City have adopted landscaping codes in recent years that 
reduce outdoor water demand in new development and are aligned with State requirements. 
Summit County’s code limits turf to 15% of the landscape area; restricts turf in narrow areas, 
sloped areas, and parking lots; and requires high -efficiency irrigation systems.
39 Park City limits 
turf to 20% of the landscape area, requires 50% of the landscape to be water-wise, and requires 
Water Sense irrigation controllers.40  
The development code also ensures watershed protection by prohibiting any development 
within 1,500 feet above and 100 feet below each spring used for culinary use or public water 
supply where the development could possibly pollute the water source. No structure can be 
located within 40 feet of a wetland or within 100 feet of a year-round naturally occurring stream, 
a reservoir, lake, or pond. 
 
38 Gorgoza and High Valley are exempt from providing annual water use data per section 1 -5-2(D)(k) which allows 
exemptions for providers in service areas that are near full build -out and have adequate reserve source capacity. 
39 https://www.summitcountyutah.gov/DocumentCenter/View/24971/Summit -County-Code-PDF Section 10-4-20, 
starts on page 374 of the above PDF 
40 Park City : Municipal Code Section 15-5-5 Architectural Design Guidelines 
81
22 
 
 
Figure 10 Hydrology and Water Resources 
VI. Sustainable Development and Water Use Goals, Policies, & Strategies 
Goal 1: Accelerate Residential, Commercial, and Institutional Water Efficiency 
Objective: Reduce water demand amongst current residential, commercial, and 
institutional water users and limit water waste to improve long -term county-wide 
efficiency. 
Policy: Summit County will convert  turfgrass landscape s at County facilities to 
water wise landscapes. 
Strategy: Utilize County facilities to showcase water-wise landscaping.   
Policy: Summit County will reduce water waste and improve indoor and outdoor 
efficiency at County facilities. 
82
23 
 
Strategy: Install EPA Water Sense  weather-based irrigation controllers 
with flow sensors, master control valves, and rain sensors at all County 
facilities. 
Strategy: Participate in Weber Basin Water Conservancy District training 
to understand how to program and use smart controllers to achieve 
greater savings. 
Strategy: Conduct irrigation audits each Spring to identify leaks and other 
inefficiencies. 
Strategy: Identify and support the implementation of water conservation 
and efficiency strategies for the county’s most water intensive buildings 
and facilities.  
Strategy: Partner with the Summit County| Park City Green Business 
program to promote and support the County’s water conservation efforts 
in County-owned businesses and facilities. 
Policy: Summit County will support water providers in water loss control efforts.  
Strategy: Summit County will work with partners such as WBWCD and 
DWRe to provide training on system audits and to apply for funding to 
support water leak detection and repair, among other water loss reduction 
efforts.  
Policy: Summit County and water providers will strengthen and formalize 
coordination and collaboration around water conservation strategies and 
programs. 
Strategy: The County will create a “conservation committee”,  consisting 
of County departments, water providers, Weber Basin Water Conservancy 
District, and others, that meets quarterly to coordinate outreach on 
available programs, co-create water conservation educational events and 
programs, and to share lessons learned from program implementation. 
Strategy: The conservation committee will consider the development and 
adoption of a “Regional Water Conservation Plan” to better align water 
efficiency goals, programming, and resources. 
Strategy: Promote WBWCD rebate programs across the Basin through 
website, social media, and other outreach methods. 
Strategy: Continue and promote the Rain Harvest  program across the 
Basin. 
Strategy: Promote the State’s weekly lawn watering guide   
 
83
24 
 
Park City & Summit County’s Green Business Program 
 
The Summit County | Park City Green Business program helps  businesses 
in the community take sustainable action across the areas of energy, 
water, materials & waste, transportation, and thriving community & equity 
through education, evaluation, support, and recognition. The Summit 
County Health Department is the first county department  to be a certified 
Green Business. 
 
 
Goal 2: Improve County-wide drought resilience and preparedness  
Objective: To prepare for more severe droughts and  support a climate resilient  
community. 
Policy: Summit County will provide support and resources to water providers to 
develop coordinated drought response plans. 
Strategy: Support and resources  could include funding for drought plan 
development and/or a technical workshop supported by consultants. The 
County will aim to collaborate on this effort with WBWCD and DWRe.  
Strategy: The County will encourage water providers to coordinate their 
drought response tiers and actions with other county water providers and 
with WBWCD to prevent confusion during times of drought. Specific 
strategies may include watering restrictions and drought block rates.  
Policy: Summit County will provide county -wide drought messaging  during 
drought periods, particularly when water use restrictions are in place. 
Strategy: The County will work with water providers to maintain accurate 
and up-to-date drought conditions and water use restrictions information 
on the County’s website and to conduct outreach on water use 
restrictions.   
Goal 3: Improve understanding of water supply adequacy for new development 
Objective: To improve understanding of water resource availability in the unincorporated 
Snyderville Basin. 
Policy: Summit County will improve communication with  water providers during 
the development review process.  
Strategy: The County will resume service provider meetings, holding 
meetings at least quarterly with Basin providers to share information 
about development proposals and solicit input. 
84
25 
 
Policy: Summit County will encourage water providers to adopt water allocation 
policies that distribute specific amounts of remaining water resources to specific 
types of new development that align with key community values, based on 
community input (such as attainable housing and schools).  
Goal 4: Protect local water sources 
Objective: Preserve the County’s limited water resources and support the  protection of 
the Great Salt Lake. 
Policy: The County will partner with relevant state agencies and organizations to 
conduct education and outreach to water rights holders, ditch shareholders , and 
other water users  in the County around instream flow dedication.  
Policy: The County will assess its own water rights portfolio and consider whether 
any water rights should be dedicated to instream flows. 
Policy: Review and consider amendments to centralized wastewater treatment 
tie-in requirements to return more treated, reclaimed water to local streams.  
 
Goal 5: Strengthen Summit County departmental coordination and collaboration to advance 
integrated water and land use priorities 
Objective: Support the successful implementation of the identified goals, policies and 
strategies of this water element through robust coordination and collaboration between 
Summit County departments and key external stakeholders. 
Policy: Establish a Water Element Implementation Working Group of 
representatives from relevant County departments and key external stakeholders 
that meets regularly. 
Strategy: Water Element Implementation Working Group will assign 
responsibilities for Water Element strategies to various departments and 
individuals and provide relevant updates on assignments. 
Policy :  Summit County will assess the need for additional staff capacity and 
expertise in integrated water and land use planning to drive successful Water 
Element implementation. 
 85
26 
 
Instream Flow Dedication in Utah  
 
Much in the way that some of our water resources are dedicated to agricultural or 
municipal uses, in Utah, water rights can be dedicated to instream flows in order to 
keep sufficient water flowing in the river channel throughout the season to support 
wildlife, the aquatic environment, and water levels in the Great Salt Lake. In 2022, 
the Utah Legislature passed HB 33 – Instream Flow Amendments - which significantly 
expanded the scope of Utah’s instream flow laws. Under the current law, the 
Division of Wildlife Resources, Division of State Parks, and the Division of Forestry, 
Fire, and State Lands as well as any person, subject to the approval of a cooperating 
Division, can apply for instream flow change applications. HB 33 allows any division 
or person to file a change application seeking to use a water right for “an instream 
flow within a specified section of a natural or altered stream” or “on sovereign 
lands” (including the Great Salt Lake). The State Engineer’s Office provides pre-
consultations for any proposed change application. And environmental organizations 
like Trout Unlimited, The Nature Conservancy, and Western Resource Advocates 
may also be a resource to water rights holders that are interested in dedicating their 
rights as instream flows.  
 
Goal 6: Build Water Efficient New Development 
Objective: Reduce water demands in new development to protect County water 
resources. 
Policy: Summit County will strengthen the County’s waterwise landscaping code. 
Strategy: Reduce the amount of water turf allowed at single family home 
developments, prohibit new water-intensive turf for new golf courses, and 
include living plant material requirements to combat urban heat island 
effect. 
Policy: Summit County will update zoning codes to allow for development 
patterns that are more water efficient. 
Strategy: Develop a clustered development overlay zone to allow for and 
encourage clustered development in infill areas, environmentally sensitive 
or hazard-prone areas, and in areas adjacent to town centers to promote 
a gradual transition to more rural development. 
Strategy: Revise NMU -1 zoning standards to allow smaller single -family 
detached housing including reviewing lot size and minimum dwelling size. 
Policy: Summit County will improve the water efficiency of new county -owned 
facilities.  
86
27 
 
Strategy: Develop targeted building and develop standards for new 
county-owned facilities that reduce water demand, exceeding current 
countywide code requirements. 
 
VII. Agricultural Water Goals, Policies and Strategies 
Goal 1: Protect Agricultural Lands and Water Resources 
Objective: Maintain the visual and ecological benefits of remaining agricultural lands 
while prioritizing water-wise land management. 
Policy: Protect agricultural lands, using conservation easements with secured 
water encumbrances,  where they provide agricultural, wildlife, scenic, heritage, 
open space, or water resource benefits. 
Strategy: Coordinate with land trusts and community organizations to 
preserve    agricultural lands with high scenic or watershed value. 
Strategy: Explore incentives for property owners who adopt water -
efficient irrigation systems or participate in water conservation programs.  
 
Goal 2 : Support Limited, Community -Scale Agriculture That is Compatible With the Existing 
Development Pattern  
Objective: Encourage small scale local food production and agricultural uses that 
conserve water. 
Policy: Encourage community gardens, school gardens, and small agricultural uses 
that are low impact, compatible with surrounding areas and demonstrate efficient 
irrigation and drought-tolerant practices.  
Strategy: Identify sites for community gardens with access to efficient 
irrigation infrastructure. 
Strategy: Partner with schools, HOAs, nonprofits, and community groups 
to promote education about water -wise gardening, agriculture, and 4 -H 
programs. 
 
Goal 3: Promote Water Stewardship Across All Large Parcels 
Objective: Ensure that remaining agricultural lands contribute to watershed health, 
landscape resilience and climate adaptation. 
Policy: Encourage soil health, efficient landscaping, turf reduction and drought 
tolerant vegetation across large parcels, agricultural, institutional or residential.  
Strategy: Integrate agricultural areas, open space areas, and natural lands 
into community education efforts emphasizing watershed function and 
water conservation.  
 
 
87