1.
Public comments for items not on the agenda or pending applications. 
2.
Public Hearing, Possible Recommendation for Amendments to the Snyderville Basin
Development Code, Sections 10-3-5, 10-3-9,
10-3-15(A)(1) and (D)(2), 10-3-18(G)(1)
(d)(1), 10-4-16(F)(2), 10-10-9-17(B)(4)4-20(C)(4), 10-7-2(C)(3)-(4), 10-8-5(B)(1) and
(2)(g), 10-8-13(C), 10-9-1, 10-9-2, 10-9-9(A), (B), and (C), 10-9-17(B)(4), 10-9-20(B),
10-9-21(A), 10-9-22(D)-(G), and Chapter 11. The proposed amendments align state
code references, fix internal inconsistencies (numbering), capitalize defined terms,
add definitions of words to match the Eastern Summit County Development Code,
and make other non-substantive amendments. 
 
3.
Public hearing and possible action regarding the proposed Plat Amendment for
Silver Creek Commerce Center Lot 7A Amended Subdivision; 
6342 Silver Creek
Drive
; Parcel 
SCO-C-AM-7A
. Administrative Review. Applicant: Brandon Brady
,
Summit County.
 Owner: Silver Creek Commerce Park LLC, Don Craig. Project #25-
200.
Tiffanie N. Robinson, Senior Planner. 
4.
Continued Discussion and possible recommendation to the Summit County Council
regarding a proposed Amendment to the Development Agreement for the Utah
Olympic Park Specially Planned Area. Parcels 
PP-63-A, PP-62-3-UAF, KJS-6-1AM,
PP-62-KJS, PP-62-4, and PP-62-KJS, located in
 Summit County, Utah.  Applicant:
Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation (UOLF). Legislative Process. Project #25-111.
Laura Kuhrmeyer, County Planner.
AGENDA 
SNYDERVILLE BASIN PLANNING COMMISSION 
Tuesday, January 13, 2026
NOTICE is hereby given that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission will meet
electronically, via Zoom, and at the anchor location of Richins Auditorium
1885 W. Ute Blvd., Park City, UT 84098
(All times listed are general in nature, and are subject to change by the Board Chair)
 
You may attend in person or
 
Join Zoom webinar:
https://summitcountyut.zoom.us/j/98189226475  
OR
To listen by phone only: Dial 1-669-900-9128 or 1-253-215-8782, Webinar ID: 981 8922 6475 
 
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
 
 
Staff Report SBPC 1.13.26 PH Code Amendments
 
SCO-C-AM-7A Plat Amend SBPC Staff Report #25-200
 
Project #25-111 UOP 4th DA Amendment Staff Report SBPC 1.13.26
Exhibit 1: Proposed Master Conceptual Site Plan
Exhibit 2: Draft of Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended
1
5.
Approval of Minutes: October 14, 2025, and December 9, 2025.
Exhibit 2a: Proposed Land Use and Zoning Chart
Exhibit 3: Revised Trip Generation Memo
Exhibit 4: Proposed Site Plan with Wildlife Area and Previous Parcel Overlay
Exhibit 5: DWR Letter
Exhibit 5a: DWR Wildlife Habitat Analysis Tool Report
Exhibit 6: Trails
Exhibit 7: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation A Living Legacy - Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute
- U of U
Exhibit 8: Kem C Gardner Policy Institute U of U Technical Memo
 
Draft SBPC Minutes 10.14.25
Approval
Draft SBPC Minutes 12.09.25
Approval
Commission Items
Director Items
Adjourn
To view staff reports available at the end of the Friday before the meeting please visit
www.summitcounty.org.
 
Individuals needing special accommodations pursuant to the Americans with Disabilities Act regarding this
meeting may contact Vicki Geary, Summit County Community Development Department at (435)336-3123.
2
 Community Development Department 
P.O. Box 128 
60 North Main Street 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
summitcounty.org 
 
  
 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
To:   Snyderville Basin Planning Commission   
From:   Jennifer Strader, Principal Planner 
Date of Meeting: January 13, 2026 
Type of Item:  Development Code Amendments - Public Hearing, Possible Action 
Process:  Legislative Review 
 
 
Proposal 
Staff is proposing to amend certain sections of the Snyderville Basin Development Code (Code) 
to align state code references, fix internal inconsistencies (numbering), capitalize defined 
terms, add definitions of words to match the Eastern Summit County Development Code, and 
make other non-substantive amendments.   
 
Background 
In the 2025 legislative session, SB1006, the Revisor’s Omnibus Bill for County Governance 
recodified Utah Code Annotated Title 17 to improve structure, clarity, and organization, 
without making substantive changes. As a result, all references to the Utah State Code must be 
updated. Staff is also taking the opportunity to make other non-substantive amendments, as 
described below. 
 
Proposed Amendments 
1. Section 10-3-5: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT 
 a. All references to the Utah State Code Annotated have been corrected. 
 b. All defined terms have been capitalized. 
c. “Special Standards for Conditional Uses” has been deleted. All Conditional Use 
Permits are required to comply with the development standards in Chapter 4 of 
the Code, where these standards are already addressed. Retaining this section is 
repetitive, does not impose additional requirements, and results in unnecessary 
duplication in staff reports. 
 
2. Section 10-3-9: SUBDIVISIONS 
 a. All references to the Utah State Code Annotated have been corrected. 
 b. All defined terms have been capitalized. 
c. Certain sections have been renumbered to maintain consistency within the 
Code. 
 
3
2 
 
3. Section 10-3-15(A)(1) and (D)(2): PARCEL BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENTS FOR PARCELS 
OUTSIDE A SUBDIVISION  
 a. All references to the Utah State Code Annotated have been corrected. 
 b. All defined terms have been capitalized. 
 
4. Section 10-3-18(G)(1)(d)(1): BUILDING PERMIT AND CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY 
 a. All references to the Utah State Code Annotated have been corrected. 
 b. All defined terms have been capitalized. 
 
5. Section 10-4-16(F)(2): PARKS, TRAILS, AND TRAILHEADS 
 a. All references to the Utah State Code Annotated have been corrected. 
 b. All defined terms have been capitalized. 
 
6. Section 10-4-20(C)(4): LANDSCAPING 
 a. All references to the Utah State Code Annotated have been corrected.  
 
7. Section 10-7-2(C)(3)-(4): AMENDMENT TO GENERAL PLAN 
 a. All references to the Utah State Code Annotated have been corrected. 
 b. All defined terms have been capitalized. 
 
8. Section 10-8-5(B)(1) and (2)(g): ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS, INTERNAL ACCESSORY 
DWELLING UNITS AND LIVE/WORK DWELLING UNITS 
 a. All references to the Utah State Code Annotated have been corrected. 
 b. All defined terms have been capitalized. 
 
9. Section 10-8-13(C): HAZARDOUS LIQUIDS OR MATERIALS TRANSMISSION PIPELINES 
 a. All references to the Utah State Code Annotated have been corrected. 
 
10. Section 10-9-1: PURPOSE 
 a. All references to the Utah State Code Annotated have been corrected. 
 
11. Section 10-9-2: AUTHORITY 
 a. All references to the Utah State Code Annotated have been corrected. 
 b. All defined terms have been capitalized. 
 
12. Section 10-9-9(A), (B), and (C): AMENDMENT AND LEGAL EFFECT OF GENERAL PLAN 
 a. All references to the Utah State Code Annotated have been corrected. 
 b. All defined terms have been capitalized. 
 
13. Section 10-9-17(B)(4): DETERMINATIONS OF VESTED RIGHTS AND OTHER DISPUTES 
 a. All references to the Utah State Code Annotated have been corrected. 
 b. All defined terms have been capitalized. 
 
 
4
3 
 
14. Section 10-9-20(B): VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES 
 a. All references to the Utah State Code Annotated have been corrected. 
 
15. Section 10-9-21(A): REMEDIES 
 a. All references to the Utah State Code Annotated have been corrected. 
 b. All defined terms have been capitalized. 
 
16. Section 10-9-22(D)-(G): APPEAL PROCEDURES 
 a. All references to the Utah State Code Annotated have been corrected. 
 b. All defined terms have been capitalized. 
 
17. CHAPTER 11: DEFINITIONS 
a. Added the following words to the definitions (taken from the Eastern Summit 
County Development Code): 
 AFFECTED ENTITIES 
 CODE 
 CONDITIONAL USE 
 LAND USE AUTHORITY 
 OWNER 
 PARCEL BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT 
 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT 
 
b. Amended the following words: 
 DEPARTMENT 
 DIRECTOR 
 DWELLING UNIT, INTERNAL ACCESSORY 
 IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION ASSURANCE 
 COMMISSION 
 
c. Created a definition for: 
 RECREATION DISTRICT 
 
Analysis and Findings 
Section 10-7-3 of the Code states that whenever there is initiated an amendment to the Code, 
it must be reviewed by the Planning Commission who will deliver a recommendation to the 
County Council. The County Council, after holding a public hearing, shall approve, approve with 
modifications, or deny the amendment according to the following criteria. 
 
Criteria 1: The amendment shall be consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of the 
general plan.  
 
Analysis: Objective B of the General Plan states, “Incentivize compact, dense, and nodal 
development…through clear regulations in the Snyderville Basin Development Code.” 
5
4 
 
Additionally, Policy 2.5 directs the County to “Eliminate advisory language from the 
Code and include clear, predictable, and measurable standards.” 
 
The proposed amendments are non-substantive and do not modify development 
standards or land use allowances. However, they improve the clarity, organization, and 
usability of the Code by correcting references to Utah State Code Annotated, aligning 
and clarifying defined terms, and improving overall Code structure.  
 
These changes enhance predictability and reduce ambiguity in Code interpretation and 
administration, supporting a clear and consistent regulatory framework. 
 
Criteria 2: The amendment shall not permit the use of land that is not consistent with the uses 
of properties nearby.  
 
Analysis: The amendments do not affect any land uses. 
 
Criteria 3: The amendment will not permit suitability of the properties affected by the proposed 
amendment for the uses to which they have been restricted.  
 
Analysis: The amendments are non-substantive and do not modify land use 
designations, permitted uses, or development potential of the affected properties. 
 
Criteria 4: The amendment will not permit the removal of the then existing restrictions which 
will unduly affect nearby property.  
 
Analysis: Staff is proposing to remove the “Special Standards for Conditional Uses”; 
however, this will not unduly affect nearby property as all Conditional Use Permits are 
required to comply with the development standards in Chapter 4 of the Code, where 
these standards are already addressed.  
 
Criteria 5: The amendment will not grant special favors or circumstances solely for one 
property owner or developer.  
 
 Analysis: The amendments will affect the entire Snyderville Basin Planning District. 
 
Criteria 6: The amendment will promote the public health, safety and welfare better than the 
existing regulations for which the amendment is intended to change. 
 
Analysis: Staff finds no evidence that the public health, safety, and welfare will be 
impacted by the amendments. The changes enhance predictability and reduce 
ambiguity in Code interpretation and administration, supporting a clear and consistent 
regulatory framework. 
 
 
6
5 
 
Recommendation 
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the proposed amendments, conduct a 
public hearing, and taking into account any public input, forward a positive recommendation to 
the County Council based on the following Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law. 
 
Findings of Fact: 
 
1. In the 2025 legislative session, SB1006, the Revisor’s Omnibus Bill for County Governance 
recodified Utah Code Annotated Title 17 to improve structure, clarity, and organization, 
without making substantive changes. As a result, all references to the Utah State Code 
must be updated. 
2. Staff is proposing to amend the Snyderville Basin Development Code to align state code 
references, fix internal inconsistencies (numbering), capitalize defined terms, add 
definitions of words to match the Eastern Summit County Development Code, and make 
other non-substantive amendments. 
3. Section 10-7-3 of the Code states that whenever there is initiated an amendment to the 
Code, it must be reviewed by the Planning Commission who will deliver a 
recommendation to the County Council. The County Council, after holding a public 
hearing, shall approve, approve with modifications, or deny the amendment. 
4. Objective B of the General Plan states, “Incentivize compact, dense, and nodal 
development…through clear regulations in the Snyderville Basin Development Code.” 
Additionally, Policy 2.5 directs the County to “Eliminate advisory language from the 
Code and include clear, predictable, and measurable standards.” 
5. The amendments do not affect any land uses. 
6. Staff is proposing to remove the “Special Standards for Conditional Uses”; however, this 
will not unduly affect nearby property as all Conditional Use Permits are required to 
comply with the development standards in Chapter 4 of the Code, where these 
standards are already addressed.  
7. Staff finds no evidence that the public health, safety, and welfare will be impacted by 
the amendments.  
 
Conclusions of Law:  
 
1. The amendment shall be consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of the 
general plan. 
2.  The amendment shall not permit the use of land that is not consistent with the uses of 
properties nearby. 
3. The amendment will not permit suitability of the properties affected by the proposed 
amendment for the uses to which they have been restricted.  
4. The amendment will not permit the removal of the then existing restrictions which will 
unduly affect nearby property.  
5. The amendment will promote the public health, safety and welfare better than the 
existing regulations for which the amendment is intended to change. 
7
6 
 
Attachments  
Exhibit A: Proposed Code Amendment with Changes Tracked 
Exhibit B: Proposed Code Amendment with Changes Accepted (clean version)   
 
 
 
8
Snyderville Basin Development Code 
10-3-5: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
A. Applicability:
1. Conditional uses Uses are those uses Uses which are generally compatible 
with the permitted uses Uses in a zoning Zone districtDistrict, but which, 
because of their size, scale, intensity of useUse, traffic generation, or other 
characteristics, require individual review of their location, design and 
configuration and the imposition of conditions in order to ensure the 
appropriateness of the use Use at a particular location within a given zoning 
Zone districtDistrict. 
2. Only those uses Uses that are enumerated as conditional Conditional uses 
Uses in a zoning Zone district District (section10-2-10 of this title) shall be 
authorized by the Planning cCommission. 
3. Conditional uses Uses may be established only upon approval of a 
conditional Conditional use Use permit pursuant to this section. 
B. Criteria For Approval: No conditional Conditional use Use permit shall be approved 
unless the applicant Applicant demonstrates that: 
1. The use Use is in accordance with the general General planPlan;
2. The use Use conforms to all applicable provisions of this title, including, but 
not limited to, any applicable provisions of this section and chapter 4 of this 
title, the general General planPlan, and state and federal regulations; 
3. The use Use is not detrimental to public health, safety and welfare;
4. The use Use is appropriately located with respect to public Public 
facilitiesFacilities; and 
5. The use Use is compatible with the existing neighborhood character and with 
the character and purpose provision of the applicable zoning Zone 
districtDistrict, and will not adversely Adversely affect Impact surrounding 
land usesUses. 
C. Special Standards For Conditional Uses: In addition to the standards established in 
this section and in chapter 4 of this title for particular uses, all conditional uses 
within a zoning district shall conform to the following standards and criteria: (Ord. 
EXHIBIT A
9
818, 2-26-2014) 
 
1.  The commission may require the applicant or the owner of the property 
subject to an application for development approval for a conditional use 
permit to establish an escrow account, post a bond or provide other financial 
security, in such form and sum as the commission shall determine, with 
sufficient surety running to the county to offset any extraordinary costs or 
expenses associated with the following: a) construction of any highways, 
roads, water or sewer mains, drainage facilities, or other public 
infrastructure; b) landscaping; c) compliance with the requirements of this 
section, any applicable special requirements set forth in this section and 
chapter 4 of this title, and the conditions attached to the development 
permit; and d) any expense requirements set forth in this section and 
chapter 4 of this title, and the conditions attached to the development 
permit, including the provision of facilities or structures, maintenance or 
construction work, or the execution or fulfillment of conditions of a 
continuing nature. 
 
2.  The proposed development shall not cause a reduction in the adopted level 
of service for any public facility. 
 
3.  Lighting shall not be directed or reflected upon adjoining land and shall meet 
all other related requirements of section1 0-4-21 of this title with respect to 
exterior lighting. 
 
4.  The natural topography, soils, critical areas, watercourses and vegetation 
shall be preserved and used, where possible, through careful location and 
design of circulation ways, buildings and other structures, parking areas, 
recreation areas, open space, utilities and drainage  
 
5.  All roads shall provide free movement for safe and efficient use within the 
development. Local roads shall provide access to the site in a manner that 
discourages unsafe and congested conditions, and which provides 
convenient accessibility to parking areas, arterial and collector roads that 
shall be free of backing movement from adjoining parking areas and free 
from congestion and public safety problems. 
 
6.  Vehicular and pedestrian passageways shall be separated from public rights 
of way. Where appropriate, a system of walkways and bicycle paths 
connecting buildings, open spaces, recreation areas, public facilities, and 
parking areas shall be provided and appropriately lighted for night use. 
 
7.  Buildings and other structures shall provide a human scale consistent with 
adjacent development and appropriate to residential uses in the RR, HS, MR, 
Commented [JS1]: The Engineering Department 
reviews and approves Development Improvement 
Agreements for projects which include the information 
contained in this paragraph. 
Commented [JS2]: Section 10-4-1 (C) states: “No 
development shall be approved by the county unless 
there are available and adequate public facilities and 
services consistent with the county’s adopted level of 
service standards…” 
Commented [JS3]: Section 10-4-21 (Lighting) 
addresses this. 
Commented [JS4]: Section 10-4-2 (Environmental 
Criteria) addresses this. 
Commented [JS5]: Section 10-4-10 (Transportation 
Infrastructure and Access Design) addresses this. 
Commented [JS6]: Section 10-4-10 (Transportation 
Infrastructure and Access Design) addresses this. 
10
CC, SC, and NC zoning districts, and consistent with adjacent conforming 
development in the zoning districts. The massing, scale and architectural 
design shall be consistent with the design guidelines established in section 
10-4-19 of this title. (Ord. 708, 12-10-2008) 
 
8.  The volume rate of postdevelopment runoff shall not exceed redevelopment 
runoff. Runoff calculations shall be submitted with the application for site 
plan approval and shall be based upon: a) the 25-year, twenty four (24) hour 
design storm event; b) a fully developed contributing drainage area; c) the 
specific location of the proposed development; d) the proposed land use 
and use density or intensity; and e) the specific location and amount of 
impervious surfaces, in square feet. 
 
9.  The site shall be landscaped in accordance with the requirements of section 
10-4-20 of this title. (Ord. 708, 12-10-2008; amd. Ord. 818, 2-26-2014) 
 
DC.  Submission Requirements: An applicant Applicant shall submit a conditional 
Conditional use Use permit application Application and pay the fee for the review 
thereof; the conditional Conditional use Use permit shall contain enough 
information, in graphic and text form to adequately describe the applicant's 
Applicant's intentions with regard to site layout and compliance with the general 
General planPlan, this title, and any applicable development Development permit, 
consent agreement or development Development agreementAgreement, including, 
but not limited to: 
 
1.  A detailed site Site planPlan, drawn to a scale, of not more than one inch 
equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') that includes: 
 
a.  A vicinity map and north arrow; 
b.  The location and arrangement of all proposed usesUses, including 
the building Building areaArea; 
c.  The height Height and number of floors of all buildingsBuildings, other 
than singleSingle-family Family Detached dwellingsDwellings, both 
above and below or partially below the finished Finished gradeGrade; 
d.  A cross section elevation plat depicting all buildingsBuildings, 
structuresStructures, monuments, and other significant natural and 
manmade features of the proposed developmentDevelopment; 
e.  Setbacks from the property lines for all structuresStructures; 
f.  The traffic and pedestrian circulation system, including the location 
and width of all roadsRoads, driveways, entrances to parking areas, 
trails, and pedestrian pathways; 
g.  Off road parking and loading areas and structuresStructures, and 
landscaping Landscaping for parking areas; 
h.  Architectural elevations and features of typical proposed 
Commented [JS7]: Section 10-4-19 (Architectural 
Regulations) addresses this. 
Commented [JS8]: Section 10-4-2 somewhat 
addresses this. This is reviewed by the Engineering 
Department and the Stormwater Department to ensure 
compliance with their ordinances. 
Commented [JS9]: Section 10-4-20 (Landscaping) 
addresses this.  
11
structuresStructures, including lighting fixtures, signs Signs and 
landscapingLandscaping; 
i.  When the development Development is to be constructed in stages or 
units, a final sequence of development Development schedule 
showing the order of construction of such stages or units, and 
approximate completion date for the construction of each stage or 
unit; 
j.  A final statement in tabular form which sets forth the following data, 
when such data is applicable to a given development Development 
plan: 
 
(1)  The area of the parcel, including total acreage of roads Roads 
or other easements; 
(2)  Total number of dwelling Dwelling unitsUnits, by development 
Development phase or total amount of square footage for 
nonresidential usesUses; 
(3)  Residential and/or nonresidential density Density and units per 
acre; 
(4) Total floor Floor area Area and floor Floor area Area ratio Ratio 
for each type of useUse; 
(5)  Total area in open space and trails; 
(6) Total area in development Development recreational open 
space; and 
(7)  Total number of off road parking and loading spaces. 
 
 
ED.  Review Procedure: 
 
1.  The CDD Director or designated planning staff member shall review the 
conditional Conditional use Use permit application Application and make 
preliminary findings as to whether the application Application complies with 
the development Development approval criteria established in this title and 
all applicable provisions of the general General planPlan. 
 
2.  The CDD Director or designated planning staff member shall secure input 
regarding the proposed development Development from all affected 
agencies and service Service providersProviders. Upon receiving such 
information, the CDD Director or designated planning staff member shall 
prepare a report and make findings and recommendations and shall 
schedule a public hearing before the Planning commission Commission as 
soon thereafter as may be practicable. 
 
3.  The Planning cCommission shall review the application Application and staff 
report. After conducting a public hearing, the Planning commission 
12
Commission shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny the proposed 
conditional Conditional use Use permit. The Planning commission 
Commission may impose conditions or requirements in addition to those 
prescribed in this section and chapter 4 of this title in order to ensure that 
the proposed use Use is compatible with other uses Uses permitted in the 
applicable zoning Zone district District and to mitigate or eliminate the 
adverse Adverse impacts Impacts of the proposed useUse, as set forth in 
subsection D of this section. 
 
FE.  Time Limit For Action: 
 
1.  An approval of a conditional Conditional use Use permit shall be valid for a 
period of time not to exceed one (1) year from the date of such approval, but 
said approval may be extended for a period not to exceed one (1) year by the 
Planning cCommission upon the property owner Owner submitting to the 
Planning cCommission satisfactory evidence indicating that reasonable 
progress is being made to provide project infrastructure and to complete 
construction. If a conditional Conditional use Use permit is allowed to 
expire, the applicant Applicant or property owner Owner will be required to 
submit a new proposal for review and approval under the development 
Development regulations in place at that time. 
 
GF.  Mandatory Review Process: 
 
1.  Conditional use Use permits are subject to periodic reviews by the CDD 
Director or designated planning staff member to assess if the conditions of 
approval are being satisfied. If the original conditions associated with the 
conditional Conditional use Use permit are not being satisfied, the Planning 
commission Commission may commence the conditional Conditional use 
Use permit revocation process. 
 
HG.  Establishment Of A Conditional Use Permit: Final approval of a conditional 
Conditional use Use permit shall be in the form of a letter to the applicant Applicant 
specifically identifying each condition together with the approved site Site plan Plan 
and any other accompanying documents determined to be relevant by the CDD 
Director or designated planning staff member and stamped approved. 
 
IH.  Amendments To Conditional Use Permits: 
 
1.  Minor Amendment: A "minor amendment" is defined as an amendment that 
does not increase the square footage, densityDensity, or intensity of 
a previously approved conditional Conditional use Use permit, which may be 
approved administratively. A minor amendment may be commenced by filing 
a lowLow impact Impact permit Permit application and paying the fee for the 
13
review thereof. Refer to section 10-3-4 of this chapter for detailed 
submission requirements and review process. 
 
2.  Major Amendment: A "major amendment" is defined as an amendment that 
increases square footage, densityDensity, and/or intensity of a previously 
approved conditional Conditional use Use permit. A major amendment may 
be commenced by filing a conditional Conditional use Use permit 
application Application and paying the fee for the review thereof. Refer to 
this title for detailed submission requirements and review process. 
 
JI.  Adult/Sex Oriented Facilities And Businesses1: 
 
1.  Findings; Zones Permitted As Conditional Use: The County Council finds that 
the appropriate location for adultAdult/sex Sex oriented Oriented facilities 
Facilities and businesses Businesses within the County is within 
concentrated areas of the County where it can be better regulated by County 
officials and law enforcement, and outside of residential or recreational 
(park) areas where the quality of life will not be as greatly impacted. Within 
the unincorporated County, adultAdult/sex Sex oriented Oriented facilities 
Facilities and businesses Businesses shall be allowed as specified herein, 
and shall conform to the criteria mandated under this subsection and title 3, 
chapter 5 of this Code, governing such activities. This title is hereby 
amended to allow adultAdult/sex Sex oriented Oriented facilities Facilities 
and businesses Businesses as outlined in section 10-2-10 of this title. 
 
2.  Conditional Use Permit Required: Adult/sex Sex oriented Oriented facilities 
Facilities and businesses Businesses must be approved in accordance with 
the provisions of this subsection and title 3, chapter 5 of this Code. In all 
cases, a design and site Site plan Plan diagramming the premises shall be 
provided as part of the application Application process. A public hearing 
shall be required in all cases prior to the issuance of a conditional 
Conditional use Use permit. The applicant Applicant shall receive notice of 
the public hearing. The procedures for issuance of conditional Conditional 
use Use permits, as found in the appropriate Development Code, shall be 
followed in all cases. A final decision by the County as to the issuance of a 
conditional Conditional use Use permit for an adultAdult/sex Sex oriented 
Oriented facility Facility or business Business shall be made within ninety 
(90) days of receipt of a completed application Application by the 
Department of Community Development Department, unless a delay is 
requested or agreed upon by the applicantApplicant, or where the applicant 
Applicant is causing the delay by not providing needed information. The CDD 
Director or designated planning staff member shall communicate the final 
decision to the applicantApplicant. 
 
14
 
 
3.  Nonconforming Uses: 
 
a.  Right To Continue: Adult/sex Sex oriented Oriented facilities Facilities 
and businesses Businesses already existing within the 
unincorporated area of the County shall have the right to continue in 
their businesses without a conditional Conditional use Use permit. 
However, all such businesses shall be subject to compliance with the 
criteria, mandatory general conditions, and mandatory design of 
premises conditions, as provided in this subsection and title 3, 
chapter 5 of this Code, within ninety (90) days of the adoption of the 
ordinance codified herein. A time extension may be granted where the 
county County manager Manager determines, on a case by case 
basis, that a hardship exists for a business owner/operator. 
 
b.  Change Or Extension/Enlargement Of Use: Any nonconforming use 
herein may not be materially changed, nor extended/enlarged 
unless it comes into compliance with the then existing development 
codeCode. 
 
c.  Cessation Of Use: If active and continuous operations are not carried 
on in a nonconforming use during a continuous period of one 
year, the building Building or land where such nonconforming use 
previously existed shall thereafter be occupied and used only for a 
conforming use. Intent to resume active operations shall not affect 
the foregoing. 
 
4.  Right Of Appeal: All appeals from denials by the planning Planning 
commission Commission or county County manager Manager of conditional 
Conditional use Use permit applications Applications shall be 
as provided in this title, the eastern Summit summit County development 
code (as applicable), and Utah Code Annotated section 17-27a-80117-79-
1009, to the district court within thirty (30) days of the planning Planning 
commissionCommission/county County manager's Manager's final action. 
 
5.  Penalty: Violations of any of the provisions of this subsection J shall subject 
the offender to the penalties as provided in this title, other applicable state 
law, or where no penalty is otherwise provided, a fine of not more than seven 
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and a ninety (90) day jail sentence.  
 
 
 
 
15
10-3-9 SUBDIVISIONS:    
 
A.  Purpose: The purposes of this section are to: 
 
1.  Guide the future growth of the Snyderville Basin Planning District in a manner 
consistent with the Snyderville Basin General Plan. 
 
2.  Advance the public health, safety, and welfare of the property owners 
Owners and residents who reside within the Snyderville Basin Planning 
District. 
 
3.  Provide Development opportunities for property owners Owners and 
residents to live, work, and conduct business within the Snyderville Basin 
Planning District. 
 
4.  To direct Development to areas readily accessible to adequate access, 
wastewater, and other necessary public infrastructure and services. 
 
5.  Encourage Development that adequately mitigates any potential adverse 
Adverse effects Impacts on adjacent Adjacent properties. 
 
6.  Encourage clustered Development to protect Wetlands, riparian areas, 
steep slopes, ridgelinesRidgelines, and other environmentally sensitive 
areas wherever practicable. 
 
7.  Provide reasonable and predictable standards Standards of review and 
preview processes and achieve responsible orderly Development. 
 
8.  Provide for the division of land for non-Development purposes. 
 
B.  Definitions: As used in this Chapter: 
 
1.  “Review Cycle” means the occurrence of: 
 
a.  the Applicant’s submittal of a complete Application for Subdivision to 
the Community Development Department; and 
 
b.  the Community Development Department’s review of that 
Application for Subdivision; and 
 
c.  the Community Development Department’s response to that 
Application for Subdivision, in accordance with this Chapter; and 
 
d.  the Applicant’s reply to the Community Development Department’s 
16
response that addresses each of the Community Development 
Department’s required modifications or requests for additional 
information. 
 
2.  "Subdivision Improvement Plans" means the civil engineering plans 
associated with required infrastructure improvements and county County 
controlled utilities required for a Subdivision. 
 
3.  "Subdivision Ordinance Review" means review by a county to verify that a 
subdivision Subdivision application Application meets the criteria of the 
county’s ordinances. 
 
4.  "Subdivision Plan Review" means a review of the Applicant's Subdivision 
Improvement Plans and other aspects of the Subdivision Application to verify 
that the Application complies with this title and applicable installation 
standards Standards and inspection specifications for infrastructure 
improvements. 
 
C.  Subdivisions: 
 
1.  Special Provision: When a single parcel includes multiple Zones Districts, 
Density may be located upon the Parcel parcel in the most appropriate 
manner irrespective of the boundaries of the Zones Districts. 
 
2.  Plat Aapplication required when land is subdivided: Whenever any land is 
laid out and platted, the owner Owner of the land shall provide to the County 
an accurate plat Plat that describes or specifies: 
 
a.  A subdivision Subdivision name that is distinct from any subdivision 
Subdivision name on a plat Plat recorded in the County Recorder’s 
office; and 
 
b.  The boundaries course and dimensions of all the parcels of ground 
divided, by their boundaries, course and extent, whether the 
ownerOwner proposed that any parcel of ground is intended to be 
used as a street or for any other public use, and whether any such 
area is reserved or proposed for dedication for a public purpose; and 
 
c.  The lot Lot or unit reference, block or building reference, street or site 
address, street name or coordinate address, acreage or square 
footage for all parcels, unit or lotsLots, and length and width of the 
blocks and lots Lots intended for sale; and 
 
d.  Every existing rightRight-of-way Way and recorded easement located 
17
within the plat Plat for: 
 
i.(1)  An an underground facility; and 
 
ii.(2)  A a water conveyance facility; or 
 
iii.(3)  Any any other utility Utility facilityFacility. 
 
e.  Any water conveyance facility located, entirely or partially, within the 
plat Plat that: 
 
i.(1)  Is is not recorded; and 
 
ii.(2)  Of of which the owner Owner of the land has actual or 
constructive knowledge, including from information made 
available to the owner Owner of the land, in the State 
Engineer’s inventory of canals or from a licensed surveyor. The 
Owner of the land shall file an Application for approval of the 
Plat. The Application form is available at the Community 
Development Department. A complete Application shall 
include all elements of the Subdivision listed in this section 
and shall provide all information required by the Subdivision 
Application. The CDD Director or designated planning staff 
member may waive or defer specific submittal requirements if 
it is determined that the submittal requirement(s) are not 
necessary to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of 
this chapter. 
 
3.  All Land Necessary for Density Required: All of the land required for the 
Density needed to create the Lots within the Subdivision, including a 
remnant Parcelparcel, which on its own would not be large enough to qualify 
for any Density, shall be contained within the boundaries of the Final 
Subdivision platPlat, and any remnant Parcel parcel shall bear a plat Plat 
note stating that no Density exists on such remnant Parcel parcel until such 
time (if ever) as the Zone District  is changed to permit additional Density 
rights and the remnant Parcel parcel is, if necessary, re-subdivided in 
accordance with this chapter; or the remnant Parcel parcel is otherwise 
vacated from the Final Subdivision Plat for the purposes of a Parcel parcel 
Boundary boundary Adjustmentadjustment, which shall constitute good 
cause for thereof under State law. 
 
4.  Remainder Parcel: In the event that the Parcelparcel(s) being Subdivided 
contain more land than that which is needed to establish the Density for the 
Subdivision, such remainder Parcelparcel(s) do not need to be included 
18
within the boundaries of the Final Subdivision Plat if each of such remainder 
Parcelparcel(s) (or such number of them if contiguous) conform to the 
minimum size requirement of the applicable Zone District at the time. In 
such cases, a certificate executed by the County shall be recorded with the 
County Recorder, at the same time as the Final Subdivision Plat is recorded, 
against the remainder parcel(s) located outside of the Final Subdivision Plat 
stating that such remainder parcel(s) are conforming Parcels parcels 
pursuant to this Chapter. 
 
5.  Separate Review: Preliminary Subdivision Plats and final Final Subdivision 
Platss shall be processed as separate applicationsApplications. 
 
6.  Land Use Authority: The Land land Use use Authority authority for 
preliminary Preliminary subdivisions Subdivision Plats shall be the Planning 
Commission and the County Manager for final Final ubdivisionsSubdivision 
Plats. 
 
7.  Subdivision Improvement Plan: A Subdivision Improvement Plan shall be 
submitted and reviewed as part of the Subdivision Plan Review during the 
final subdivision Subdivision process. 
D. 
8.  Preliminary Subdivision: 
 
a.  Pre-Application Meeting. 
 
i.(1)  A pre-application meeting is not required for Subdivision 
Applications subject to this Chapter, but is recommended. If a 
pre-application meeting is requested by an Applicant for a 
Subdivision Application subject to this Chapter, the 
Community Development Department shall, within 15 
business days after the request, schedule the meeting to 
review the concept plan and provide initial feedback. 
 
ii.(2)  The CDD Director or designated planning staff member shall 
provide at the pre-application meeting or have available on the 
County website the following: 
 
1.(A)  copies of applicable land use regulations; and 
 
2.(B)  a complete list of standards Standards required for the 
project; and 
 
3.(C)  preliminary and final application Application checklists; 
and 
19
 
4.(D)  feedback on the concept plan. 
 
b.  Notification of Water Conveyance Facility: 
 
i.(1)  Within 20 days after the day on which an owner Owner of land 
submits to the County a complete Subdivision Plat land use 
application, the County shall mail written notice of the 
proposed subdivision Subdivision to the facility owner or any 
water conveyance facility located, entirely or partially, within 
100 feet of the Subdivision Plat. 
 
ii.(2)  The County shall not approve the Subdivision Plat for at least 
20 days after the day on which the County mails to each facility 
owner the notice to receive any comments from each facility 
owner regarding: 
 
1.(A)  Access to the water conveyance facility; and 
 
2.(B)  maintenance Maintenance of the water conveyance 
facility; and 
 
3.(C)  protection Protection of the water conveyance facility 
integrity; and 
 
4.(D)  safety Safety of the water conveyance facility; or 
 
5.(E)  any Any other issue related to water conveyance facility 
operations. 
 
c.  Subdivision Review: The CDD Director or designated planning staff 
member shall conduct a review that includes all affected Affected 
agencies Entities and Service Providers no later than 15 business 
days after the day on which an Applicant submits a complete 
Subdivision Application. Upon completion of the Subdivision Review, 
the CDD Director or designated planning staff member shall prepare 
a report and make findings and recommendations and shall schedule 
a public hearing before the Planning Commission as soon thereafter 
as may be practicable. 
 
d.  Subdivision Review Standards: The following Subdivision Rreview 
standards Standards apply. Because of the limited time frame for 
preliminary review, compliance with standards Standards may be 
written in the form of conditions of approval to be met during the 
20
Subdivision Plan Review part of the Final Subdivision plat. 
 
(1).  The Subdivision is compliant with the Snyderville Basin 
General Plan. 
 
(2).  The Subdivision is designed to fit into the topography of the 
site. Lots shall be sited to best fit into the natural terrain, to 
minimize excessive site grading and to mitigate impacts on the 
natural environment and resources of the surrounding area. 
The subdivision Subdivision layout shall demonstrate the 
preservation of watercourses, drainage areas, wooded areas, 
rough terrain and similar natural feature areas. 
 
(3).  The Subdivision considers adjacent Adjacent land uses. Site 
design shall mitigate any potential adverse Adverse impacts 
Impacts including, but not limited to flooding, erosion, 
subsidence, sloping of the soil or other dangers or nuisances. 
 
(4).  Where appropriate, subdivisions Subdivisions shall be 
designed to accommodate a variety of transportation modes. 
Vehicle/pedestrian/bicycle/equestrian circulation shall be 
demonstrated, and where possible 
pedestrian/bicycle/equestrian circulation should be separated 
from vehicular circulation. 
 
(5).  Each proposed Lot shall have legal Access access through a 
recorded Right-Of-Way or Easementeasement. The Applicant 
shall demonstrate that adequate Access access to the 
property from a Public public Road may be granted by the 
State or County, whichever is applicable. 
 
(6).  Compliance with the Standards for Approval of Development 
Permits in chapter 4 of this title. 
 
e.  Public Hearing: The Planning Commission may hold no more than one 
public hearing for a preliminary Subdivision Plat. 
 
f.  Preliminary Subdivision Approval: If a preliminary Subdivision Plat 
complies with this title and all other applicable standards Standards 
and specifications, the Planning Commission shall approve the 
preliminary Subdivision. The Applicant shall be notified of the 
approval in the form of a letter specifically identifying each condition 
of approval along with the approved preliminary Subdivision and any 
other accompanying documents determined to be relevant by the 
21
CDD Director or designated planning staff member. After preliminary 
approval, the Applicant may submit a Final Subdivision Application. 
 
9.  Final Subdivision: 
 
a. Upon approval of the preliminary subdivisionSubdivision Plat, the 
Applicant shall submit a final Final subdivision Subdivision Plat 
application Application with all required material for the Subdivision 
Plan Review, including Subdivision Improvement Plans, and any 
amendments required by the Planning Commission during 
preliminary review. 
 
b.  No later than 20 business days after the day on which an Applicant 
submits all the required materials for the final Final 
subdivisionSubdivision Plat, the CDD Director or designated planning 
staff member shall complete a Subdivision Plan Review subject to 
this Chapter. 
 
c.  Review Cycles: After conducting the Subdivision Plan Review, the 
CDD Director or designated planning staff member may require that 
the Applicant provide: 
 
i.(1)  additional information relating to an Applicant's plans to 
ensure compliance with County ordinances and approved 
standards Standards and specifications for construction of 
Public Improvements; and 
 
ii.(2)  modification to plans that do not meet current ordinances, 
applicable standardsStandards, or specifications, or do not 
contain complete information. 
 
d.  The CDD Director or designated planning staff member’s request for 
additional information or modifications to plans under (c)(i1), and (ii2) 
above shall be specific and refer to conditions of approval included in 
the preliminary approval, regulations, standardsStandards, or 
specifications that require the modifications to plans, and shall be 
logged in an index of requested modifications or additions. 
 
e.  Unless the change or correction is necessitated by the Applicant's 
adjustment to a plan set or an update to a phasing plan that adjusts 
the infrastructure needed for the specific developmentDevelopment, 
a change or correction not addressed or referenced in the County’s 
Subdivision Plan Review is waived, except if the modifications or 
corrections are necessary to protect public health and safety or to 
22
enforce state or federal law. 
 
f.  If an Applicant does not submit a revised plan within 20 business days 
after the CDD Director or designated planning staff member requires 
a modification or correction, the County shall have an additional 20 
business days to respond to the plans. 
 
g.  After the Applicant has responded to the final Review Cycle, and the 
Applicant has complied with each modification requested in the 
County’s previous review Review cycleCycle, the County may not 
require additional revisions if the Applicant has not materially 
changed the plan, other than changes that were in response to 
requested modifications or corrections. 
 
h.  Utah Code Annotated Section 17-27a-604.2(5)(c)17-79-706(8)(c) 
limits Review Cycles to no more than four. 
 
i.  The Review Cycle restrictions and requirements of this Chapter do 
not apply to review of Subdivision Applications affecting property 
within identified Geological Hazard Areas. 
 
j.  Applicant’s Reply to Community Development Department’s 
Response: 
 
k.(1)  In addition to revised plans submitted during Final Subdivision 
Plat Reviews, an Applicant shall provide a written explanation 
in response to the CDD Director or designated planning staff 
member’s review comments with each Review Cycle, 
identifying and explaining the Applicant's revisions and 
reasons for declining to make revisions, if any. 
 
l.(2)  The Applicant's written explanation shall be comprehensive 
and specific, including citations to applicable standards 
Standards and ordinances for the design and an index of 
requested revisions or additions for each required correction. 
 
m.(3)  If an Applicant fails to address a review comment in the 
response, the Review Cycle is not complete and the 
subsequent Review Cycle may not begin until all comments 
are addressed. 
 
nk.  Appeal: If, on the fourth or final Review Cycle, the Community 
Development Department fails to take final action on the Subdivision 
within 20 business days, the County shall, upon the request of the 
23
property ownerOwner, and within 10 business days after the day on 
which the request is received: 
 
i.(1)  For a dispute arising from the Subdivision Improvement Plans, 
assemble an appeal panel in accordance with Subsection 17-
27a-507(5)(d)17-79-812(5)(d) of Utah State Code Annotated to 
review and approve or deny the final revised set of plans; or 
 
ii.(2)  For a dispute arising from the subdivision Subdivision 
ordinance review, advise the applicant Applicant in writing of 
the deficiency in the application Application and of the right to 
appeal the determination to the Summit County Council. 
 
ol.  The County Manager shall approve a Final Subdivision Plat if the Final 
Subdivision Plat complies with the Planning Commission’s 
preliminary Subdivision approval, applicable Snyderville Basin 
Development Code regulations, and all other applicable standards 
Standards and specifications. 
 
10.  Plat Preparation: In addition to all requirements in Section C.2 of this 
chapter, prior to recordation, the final plat Plat shall contain the following: 
 
a.  Notarized signatures of each owner Owner of record of land 
described in the Plat in the owner’s Owner’s designation part of the 
Plat. 
 
b.  Notarized signatures on the Plat by every person having a security 
interest in the property which sets forth that he/she is subordinating 
his/her liens to all covenants, servitude and easements imposed on 
the property, and all conditions of Development approval proposed 
by the County. 
 
c.  Signatures of the County Recorder, Land Use Authority, County 
Engineer, Health Department, the Public Safety Answering Point, 
applicable Fire District and County Attorney. 
 
d.  Certification by a surveyor licensed in the State of Utah. 
 
11.  Plat Recordation 
 
1.a.  After the Plat has been acknowledged, certified and approved, the 
owner Owner of the land seeking to record the plat Plat shall record 
the plat Plat in the County Recorder’s office per the requirements in 
Section 11-6-1310-9-11 of this Title. 
24
 
2.b.  The County shall withhold an otherwise valid Plat approval until the 
owner Owner of the land provides the Community Development 
Department with a tax clearance indicating that all taxes, interest, 
and penalties owing for the land have been paid. 
 
3.c.  Within 30 days after approving a Final Plat, the County shall submit to 
the Utah Geospatial Resource Center: 
 
ii.(1)  An electronic copy of the approved Final Plat; or 
 
iii.(2)  Preliminary geospatial data that depicts any new streets and 
situs addresses proposed for construction within the bound of 
the approved Plat. 
 
10-3-15(A)(1) and (D)(2): PARCEL BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENTS FOR PARCELS OUTSIDE A 
SUBDIVISION: 
 
A. A property ownerOwner: 
 
1. May execute a parcel Parcel boundary Boundary adjustment Adjustment by 
quitclaim deed or by a boundary line agreement, as described in Utah Code 
Annotated section 17-27a-52217-79-806, 17-27a-52317-79-807, or 57-1-45. 
 
D. Division Of Land For Non-Development Purposes: 
 
2. A division of a parcel without conformance to the Subdivision Plat 
requirements of this Title or the certificate required by Utah Code Annotated 
section 17-27a-605(1),17-79-708, as amended, does not create a Lot of 
Record for the purposes of this Title. However, in conformance with Utah 
Code Annotated section 17-27a-605(3)17-79-708, as amended, such 
divisions of land can be recorded for the purposes of conveying property 
ownership. 
 
10-3-18(G)(1)(d)(1): BUILDING PERMIT AND CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY: 
 
G. Site Plan Requirements: 
 
(1) Agricultural exempt buildings Buildings that comply with section 17-27a-
60517-79-708 of the Utah Code Annotated are excluded from these site Site 
plan Plan requirements. However, agricultural Agricultural exempt buildings 
Buildings closer than three feet (3') to the required setback Setback line or 
are greater than twenty- eight feet (28') in height Height will require an 
inspection by the community Community development Development 
25
department Department to ensure that setback Setback and height Height 
requirements for the zone Zone district District in which they are located are 
being met. 
 
 
10-4-16(F)(2): PARKS, TRAILS, AND TRAILHEADS: 
 
F. Pedestrian Nonmotorized Trail Systems: 
 
2. In the event a community Community wide Wide trail Trail, as identified on 
the master trails plan adopted by the Snyderville Basin special recreation 
Recreation districtDistrict, is located on a development Development parcel, 
the county may, pursuant to the provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 
17-27a-50717-79-812, require as part of the development Development 
approval that the proportional share of the community Community wide 
Wide trail Trail system running through their site be provided by the 
developer Developer as a condition of approval. The proportional share may 
be provided by deed, easements or rights Rights of way Way for the 
community Community wide Wide public trail Trail system managed by the 
Snyderville Basin special recreation Recreation districtDistrict. When new 
development Development applications Applications require community 
benefits in exchange for increased density Density as a condition of 
approval, trail dedication and/or construction will qualify in the criteria to be 
considered. Trail construction shall be consistent with the design guidelines 
of the Snyderville Basin recreation Recreation district District and the 
Snyderville Basin trails master plan and community Community wide Wide 
trail Trail system development Development standardsStandards. 
 
 
10-4-20(C)(4): LANDSCAPING: 
 
C. Improvement Completion Assurance Required: 
 
4. This remaining ten percent (10%) shall constitute the warranty under Utah 
Code Annotated section 17-27a-604.5(3)17-79-707  and shall be for a period 
of two (2) years. 
 
 
10-7-2(C)(3)-(4): AMENDMENT TO GENERAL PLAN:  
 
C. Procedures For Amending General Plan Text Or General Plan Land Use Map: 
 
3. Prior to recommending the adoption, rejection or revision of any general 
General plan Plan amendment, the commission Planning Commission shall 
hold a public hearing in accordance with the procedures in Utah Code 
26
Annotated, section 17-27a-20517-79-205, after receiving the report of the 
CDD Director or designated planning staff member and providing reasonable 
notice. The CDD Director or designated planning staff member shall cause 
reasonable notice of the hearing to be published. 
 
4. After the commission Planning Commission has issued its recommendation, 
the CDD Director or designated planning staff member shall submit a copy 
of the general General plan Plan amendment, the recommendation of the 
commissionPlanning Commission, the report of the CDD Director or 
designated planning staff member, any proposed revisions to the general 
General plan Plan amendment, and the transcripts of the proceedings before 
the commission Planning Commission and its recommendation to the 
county County councilCouncil. Following receipt of a certified copy of the 
general General plan Plan amendment from the commissionPlanning 
Commission, the county County council Council shall schedule a public 
hearing to decide whether to adopt the amendment. The CDD Director or 
designated planning staff member shall cause reasonable notice to be 
published. The county County council Council shall consider the proposed 
amendment and the recommendation of the commission Planning 
Commission pursuant to the procedures established in Utah Code 
Annotated, section 17-27a-20517-79-205. The county County council 
Council shall approve the amendment, approve the amendment with 
modifications or reject the proposed amendment. The county County 
council Council may approve a general General Planplan amendment only 
upon the affirmative vote of a majority of its total membership. If the county 
County council Council approves the proposed amendment, as submitted or 
as modified, the county County council Council shall adopt the amendment 
by ordinance specifically referencing the same and shall cause to be affixed 
to the amendment the signature of the chairman chair of the county County 
councilCouncil. 
 
 
10-8-5(B)(1) and (2)(g): ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS, INTERNAL ACCESSORY 
DWELLING UNITS AND LIVE/WORK DWELLING UNITS:  
 
B. Internal Accessory Dwelling Units: As an alternative to the standards in 10-8-5(A), 
the following standards Standards apply. Internal Accessory Dwelling Units are an 
incidental residential use Use within the Building Footprint footprint of a Single-
Family Detached Dwelling Unit. 
 
1. Applicability: Internal Accessory Dwelling Units must comply with the 
standards found in Utah State Code Annotated Section section 17-27a-
52617-80-303 as amended. If an Accessory Dwelling Unit is within or 
attached to a Single-Family Detached Dwelling Unit but does not comply 
27
with all standards in Utah State Code Annotated Section section 17-27a-
52617-80-303 as amended, the standards Standards outlined in 10-8-5(A) of 
this Title shall apply. 
 
2.  General Standards: All Accessory Dwelling Units shall conform to the 
following standards: 
 
g.  Certificate of Occupancy: A certificate of occupancy for an Accessory 
Dwelling Unit shall only be granted concurrent with or after the 
issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the Single-Family Detached 
Dwelling Unit or the associated commercial Use. If an existing 
residence is proposed to be converted to an ADU Accessory Dwelling 
Unit in conjunction with a proposed primary Single-Family Detached 
Dwelling Unit, the Building Permit for the new primary Single-Family 
Detached Dwelling Unit shall not be issued until Staff has determined 
that the structure to be converted to an ADU Accessory Dwelling Unit 
complies with all applicable requirements. 
 
 
10-8-13(C): HAZARDOUS LIQUIDS OR MATERIALS TRANSMISSION PIPELINES:  
 
C. Definitions: 
 
JURISDICTIONAL WETLANDS: An area delineated and approved as a wetland by the 
United States army corps of engineers consistent with Utah Code Annotated 
section 17-27a-52017-79-608. 
 
10-9-1: PURPOSE: 
 
This title is adopted for the statutorily authorized purposes set forth in Utah Code 
Annotated, section 17-27a-10217-79-101, as such may be amended from time to time. 
 
 
10-9-2: AUTHORITY: 
 
This title implements the Snyderville Basin general General plan Plan of the county 
(hereinafter "plan"), which has been prepared and adopted pursuant to Utah Code 
Annotated, section 17-27a-40117-79-401. This title contains requirements for consistency 
with the general General planPlan, the processing and approval of subdivision Subdivision 
plats Plats and site Site plansPlans, building and development Development 
permitsPermits, variances, administrative relief and appeals, conditional Conditional use 
Use permits, amendments to the general General plan Plan and zoningZoning Districts, 
specific plans and development Development agreements Agreements as authorized by 
the county land use development and management act, Utah Code Annotated, section 17-
27a-10117-79-101 et seq. 
28
 
10-9-9(A), (B), and (C): AMENDMENT AND LEGAL EFFECT OF GENERAL PLAN: 
 
A. The county has adopted a general General plan Plan for development Development 
pursuant to the procedures set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 17-27a-
40117-79-401. The general General plan Plan is hereby declared to be binding for 
purposes of future amendments to this title, and all applications Applications for 
development Development approval, development Development permitsPermits, 
specific plans, administrative relief and appeals. All above applications 
Applications for development Development approval shall be consistent with the 
general General plan Plan pursuant to the authority granted in Utah Code Annotated 
section 17-27a-405.17-79-405. 
 
B. The general General plan Plan text and land use maps may be amended as provided 
by Utah Code Annotated section 17-27a-40417-79-404 and chapter 7 of this title. 
No amendment to the general General plan Plan may be recommended by the 
commission Planning Commission or approved by the county County council 
Council unless such amendment is internally consistent with the other elements of 
the general General planPlan, the general General plan Plan land use maps and the 
goals, objectives and policies of the general General planPlan. If any amendment is 
proposed that is inconsistent with any element or provision of the existing general 
General planPlan, such amendment shall include proposed additions, revisions or 
deletions to the other elements or provisions of the general General plan Plan as 
needed to maintain consistency between the various elements and provisions of 
the general General planPlan. 
 
C. This chapter and this title as adopted are hereby declared to be consistent with the 
general General plan Plan of the county pursuant to the provisions of Utah Code 
Annotated section 17-27a-40517-79-405. 
 
 
10-9-17(B)(4): DETERMINATIONS OF VESTED RIGHTS AND OTHER DISPUTES: 
 
B. Procedure And Approval: 
 
4. After the applicant Applicant has received approval or denial of a 
determination of vested rights, an appeal from the decision of the county 
County council Council shall be made by any aggrieved Aggrieved person 
Person to the district court of the county within thirty (30) days of such 
decision, in accordance with Utah Code Annotated, section 17-27-100117-
79-1009. 
 
 
 
 
29
10-9-20(B): VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES: 
 
B. The county attorney reserves the right to enforce this title using any of the remedies 
provided for in Utah Code Annotated, section 17-27-100217-79-901. 
 
 
10-9-21(A): REMEDIES: 
 
A. No person may challenge in district court a land use Use decision under this title 
until they have exhausted all of their administrative remedies provided herein. Any 
person adversely affected by any final administrative decision made pursuant to 
this title must file a petition for review of that final decision with the district court 
within thirty (30) days and comply with all other requirements of Utah Code 
Annotated, section 17-27-100117-79-1009. Failure to comply with this section of 
the state law divests the district court of the subject matter jurisdiction to review 
decisions of the countyCounty. 
 
10-9-22(D)-(G): APPEAL PROCEDURES: 
 
D. Timing: Unless otherwise specified in this section or under the County Land Use 
Management Act contained within Title 17, Chapter 27a 79 of the Utah Code 
Annotated, all appeal periods are based upon calendar days and appeals must be 
received on or before the close of business (5:00 p.m.) on the last day of the appeal 
period. Failure to file a completed appeal form (applicationApplication) within the 
time period specific shall act as a jurisdictional bar and render the appeal moot. 
Electronic submissions of completed applications Applications (.pdf, .jpg, .tif, etc.) 
will be accepted by the county County via email if time stamped as being received 
prior to 5:00 p.m. on the last day of the appeal period. 
 
G. Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated, section Ann. §17-27a-80117-79-1009 et. seq., an 
appeal of a county County council Council or board of adjustment Administrative 
Law Judge action goes to district court. 
 
 
CHAPTER 11: DEFINITIONS 
 
AFFECTED ENTITIES: A county, municipality, local district, special service district, school 
district, interlocal cooperation entity, property owners association, public utility, or the 
Utah Department of Transportation, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 17-79-
102(3) or successor law. 
 
CODE: Title 10 of the Summit County Code. 
 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT: The Summit County department of 
Commented [JS10]: Same definition as East Side 
Code 
30
community development. 
 
CONDITIONAL USE: A land Use that, because of the unique characteristics or potential 
impact of the land Use on the County, surrounding neighbors, or Adjacent land Uses, may 
not be compatible in some areas or may be compatible only if certain conditions are 
required that mitigate or eliminate the Adverse Impacts. 
 
DIRECTOR: The director of the Summit County department of community 
developmentCommunity Development Department, or authorized designee, with overall 
administrative control of the planning, building, and zoning functions of the County, under 
the direction of the County Manager. . The director can designate the planning and zoning 
administrator when appropriate to fulfill the responsibilities authorized in this title 
 
DWELLING UNIT, INTERNAL ACCESSORY: The definition of an Internal Accessory Dwelling 
Unit shall be identical to the definition used in Utah State Code Annotated section 17-27a-
526(117-80-303)(a) as amended. 
 
IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION ASSURANCE: The financial assurance for completion of all 
landscaping Landscaping consistent with Utah Code Annotated section 17-27a.17-79-707. 
 
LAND USE AUTHORITY: The Community Development Director, Planning Commission, 
Administrative Law Judge, County Manager or County Council, as the case may be, who is 
empowered under this title to make land use decisions on behalf of Summit County. 
 
OWNER: Any person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or corporations, or any 
other legal entity having legal title to or sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to 
be developed or subdivided under this title. 
 
PARCEL BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT: An adjustment to property boundaries as set forth in 
Utah Code Annotated section 17-79-806, 17-79-807, or 57-1-45. 
 
PLANNING COMMISSION: The Snyderville Basin planning Planning 
commissionCommission, the appointment and duties of which are provided for in section 
17-27-20417-79-302 et seq., of the Utah code Code Annotated and section 10-9-10 of this 
title. 
 
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: Any drainage ditch or system, roadway, parkway, sidewalk, 
pedestrian way, tree, lawn, off street parking area, lot improvement, water or sewer 
system, or other facility for which the County may ultimately assume the responsibility for 
maintenance and operation, or which may affect an improvement for which County 
responsibility is established. All such improvements shall be properly guaranteed and 
installed pursuant to County codes, specifications and regulations. 
 
RECREATION DISTRICT: The Snyderville Basin Special Recreation District 
Commented [JS11]: Same definition as East Side 
Code. 
31
Snyderville Basin Development Code 
10
-3-5: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
A. A
pplicability:
1. C
onditional Uses are those Uses which are generally compatible with the
permitted Uses in a Zone District, but which, because of their size, scale,
intensity of Use, traffic generation, or other characteristics, require
individual review of their location, design and configuration and the
imposition of conditions in order to ensure the appropriateness of the Use at
a particular location within a given Zone District.
2. O
nly those Uses that are enumerated as Conditional Uses in a Zone District
(section10-2-10 of this title) shall be authorized by the Planning
Commission.
3. C
onditional Uses may be established only upon approval of a Conditional
Use permit pursuant to this section.
B. C
riteria For Approval: No Conditional Use permit shall be approved unless the
Applicant demonstrates that:
1. T
he Use is in accordance with the General Plan;
2. T
he Use conforms to all applicable provisions of this title, including, but not
limited to, any applicable provisions of this section and chapter 4 of this title,
the General Plan, and state and federal regulations;
3. T
he Use is not detrimental to public health, safety and welfare;
4. T
he Use is appropriately located with respect to Public Facilities; and
5. T
he Use is compatible with the existing neighborhood character and with the
character and purpose provision of the applicable Zone District and will not
Adversely Impact surrounding land Uses.
C. Su
bmission Requirements: An Applicant shall submit a Conditional Use permit
Application and pay the fee for the review thereof; the Conditional Use permit shall
contain enough information, in graphic and text form to adequately describe the
Applicant's intentions with regard to site layout and compliance with the General
Plan, this title, and any applicable Development permit, consent agreement or
Development Agreement, including, but not limited to:
EXHIBIT B
32
 
1.  A detailed Site Plan, drawn to a scale, of not more than one inch equals one 
hundred feet (1" = 100') that includes: 
 
a.  A vicinity map and north arrow; 
b.  The location and arrangement of all proposed Uses, including the 
Building Area; 
c.  The Height and number of floors of all Buildings, other than Single-
Family Detached Dwellings, both above and below or partially below 
the Finished Grade; 
d.  A cross section elevation plat depicting all Buildings, Structures, 
monuments, and other significant natural and manmade features of 
the proposed Development; 
e.  Setbacks from the property lines for all Structures; 
f.  The traffic and pedestrian circulation system, including the location 
and width of all Roads, driveways, entrances to parking areas, trails, 
and pedestrian pathways; 
g.  Off road parking and loading areas and Structures, and Landscaping 
for parking areas; 
h.  Architectural elevations and features of typical proposed Structures, 
including lighting fixtures, Signs and Landscaping; 
i.  When the Development is to be constructed in stages or units, a final 
sequence of Development schedule showing the order of 
construction of such stages or units, and approximate completion 
date for the construction of each stage or unit; 
j.  A final statement in tabular form which sets forth the following data, 
when such data is applicable to a given Development plan: 
 
(1)  The area of the parcel, including total acreage of Roads or 
other easements; 
(2)  Total number of Dwelling Units, by Development phase or total 
amount of square footage for nonresidential Uses; 
(3)  Residential and/or nonresidential Density and units per acre; 
(4) Total Floor Area and Floor Area Ratio for each type of Use; 
(5)  Total area in open space and trails; 
(6) Total area in Development recreational open space; and 
(7)  Total number of off road parking and loading spaces. 
 
 
D.  Review Procedure: 
 
1.  The Director or designated planning staff member shall review the 
Conditional Use permit Application and make preliminary findings as to 
whether the Application complies with the Development approval criteria 
33
established in this title and all applicable provisions of the General Plan. 
 
2.  The Director or designated planning staff member shall secure input 
regarding the proposed Development from all affected agencies and Service 
Providers. Upon receiving such information, the Director or designated 
planning staff member shall prepare a report and make findings and 
recommendations and shall schedule a public hearing before the Planning 
Commission as soon thereafter as may be practicable. 
 
3.  The Planning Commission shall review the Application and staff report. After 
conducting a public hearing, the Planning Commission shall approve, 
approve with conditions, or deny the proposed Conditional Use permit. The 
Planning Commission may impose conditions or requirements in addition to 
those prescribed in this section and chapter 4 of this title in order to ensure 
that the proposed Use is compatible with other Uses permitted in the 
applicable Zone District and to mitigate or eliminate the Adverse Impacts of 
the proposed Use, as set forth in subsection D of this section. 
 
E.  Time Limit For Action: 
 
1.  An approval of a Conditional Use permit shall be valid for a period of time not 
to exceed one (1) year from the date of such approval, but said approval may 
be extended for a period not to exceed one (1) year by the Planning 
Commission upon the property Owner submitting to the Planning 
Commission satisfactory evidence indicating that reasonable progress is 
being made to provide project infrastructure and to complete construction. If 
a Conditional Use permit is allowed to expire, the Applicant or property 
Owner will be required to submit a new proposal for review and approval 
under the Development regulations in place at that time. 
 
F.  Mandatory Review Process: 
 
1.  Conditional Use permits are subject to periodic reviews by the Director or 
designated planning staff member to assess if the conditions of 
approval are being satisfied. If the original conditions associated with the 
Conditional Use permit are not being satisfied, the Planning Commission 
may commence the Conditional Use permit revocation process. 
 
G.  Establishment Of A Conditional Use Permit: Final approval of a Conditional Use 
permit shall be in the form of a letter to the Applicant specifically identifying each 
condition together with the approved Site Plan and any other accompanying 
documents determined to be relevant by the Director or designated planning staff 
member and stamped approved. 
 
34
H.  Amendments To Conditional Use Permits: 
 
1.  Minor Amendment: A "minor amendment" is defined as an amendment that 
does not increase the square footage, Density, or intensity of 
a previously approved Conditional Use permit, which may be approved 
administratively. A minor amendment may be commenced by filing a Low 
Impact Permit application and paying the fee for the review thereof. Refer to 
section 10-3-4 of this chapter for detailed submission requirements and 
review process. 
 
2.  Major Amendment: A "major amendment" is defined as an amendment that 
increases square footage, Density, and/or intensity of a previously approved 
Conditional Use permit. A major amendment may be commenced by filing a 
Conditional Use permit Application and paying the fee for the review thereof. 
Refer to this title for detailed submission requirements and review process. 
 
I.  Adult/Sex Oriented Facilities And Businesses1: 
 
1.  Findings; Zones Permitted As Conditional Use: The County Council finds that 
the appropriate location for Adult/Sex Oriented Facilities and Businesses 
within the County is within concentrated areas of the County where it can be 
better regulated by County officials and law enforcement, and outside of 
residential or recreational (park) areas where the quality of life will not be as 
greatly impacted. Within the unincorporated County, Adult/Sex Oriented 
Facilities and Businesses shall be allowed as specified herein, and shall 
conform to the criteria mandated under this subsection and title 3, chapter 5 
of this Code, governing such activities. This title is hereby amended to allow 
Adult/Sex Oriented Facilities and Businesses as outlined in section 10-2-10 
of this title. 
 
2.  Conditional Use Permit Required: Adult/Sex Oriented Facilities and 
Businesses must be approved in accordance with the provisions of this 
subsection and title 3, chapter 5 of this Code. In all cases, a design and Site 
Plan diagramming the premises shall be provided as part of the Application 
process. A public hearing shall be required in all cases prior to the issuance 
of a Conditional Use permit. The Applicant shall receive notice of the public 
hearing. The procedures for issuance of Conditional Use permits, as found in 
the appropriate Development Code, shall be followed in all cases. A final 
decision by the County as to the issuance of a Conditional Use permit for an 
Adult/Sex Oriented Facility or Business shall be made within ninety (90) days 
of receipt of a completed Application by Community Development 
Department, unless a delay is requested or agreed upon by the Applicant, or 
where the Applicant is causing the delay by not providing needed 
information. The Director or designated planning staff member shall 
35
communicate the final decision to the Applicant. 
 
3.  Nonconforming Uses: 
 
a.  Right To Continue: Adult/Sex Oriented Facilities and Businesses 
already existing within the unincorporated area of the County shall 
have the right to continue in their businesses without a Conditional 
Use permit. However, all such businesses shall be subject to 
compliance with the criteria, mandatory general conditions, and 
mandatory design of premises conditions, as provided in this 
subsection and title 3, chapter 5 of this Code, within ninety (90) days 
of the adoption of the ordinance codified herein. A time extension 
may be granted where the County Manager determines, on a case by 
case basis, that a hardship exists for a business owner/operator. 
 
b.  Change Or Extension/Enlargement Of Use: Any nonconforming use 
herein may not be materially changed, nor extended/enlarged 
unless it comes into compliance with the then existing development 
Code. 
 
c.  Cessation Of Use: If active and continuous operations are not carried 
on in a nonconforming use during a continuous period of one 
year, the Building or land where such nonconforming use previously 
existed shall thereafter be occupied and used only for a conforming 
use. Intent to resume active operations shall not affect the foregoing. 
 
4.  Right Of Appeal: All appeals from denials by the Planning Commission or 
County Manager of Conditional Use permit Applications shall be 
as provided in this title, the eastern summit County development code (as 
applicable), and Utah Code Annotated section 17-79-1009, to the district 
court within thirty (30) days of the Planning Commission/County Manager's 
final action. 
 
5.  Penalty: Violations of any of the provisions of this subsection J shall subject 
the offender to the penalties as provided in this title, other applicable state 
law, or where no penalty is otherwise provided, a fine of not more than seven 
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and a ninety (90) day jail sentence.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36
10-3-9 SUBDIVISIONS:    
 
A.  Purpose: The purposes of this section are to: 
 
1.  Guide the future growth of the Snyderville Basin Planning District in a manner 
consistent with the General Plan. 
 
2.  Advance the public health, safety, and welfare of the property Owners and 
residents who reside within the Snyderville Basin Planning District. 
 
3.  Provide Development opportunities for property Owners and residents to 
live, work, and conduct business within the Snyderville Basin Planning 
District. 
 
4.  To direct Development to areas readily accessible to adequate access, 
wastewater, and other necessary public infrastructure and services. 
 
5.  Encourage Development that adequately mitigates any potential Adverse 
Impacts on Adjacent properties. 
 
6.  Encourage clustered Development to protect Wetlands, riparian areas, 
steep slopes, Ridgelines, and other environmentally sensitive areas 
wherever practicable. 
 
7.  Provide reasonable and predictable Standards of review and preview 
processes and achieve responsible orderly Development. 
 
8.  Provide for the division of land for non-Development purposes. 
 
B.  Definitions: As used in this Chapter: 
 
1.  “Review Cycle” means the occurrence of: 
 
a.  the Applicant’s submittal of a complete Application for Subdivision to 
the Community Development Department; and 
 
b.  the Community Development Department’s review of that 
Application for Subdivision; and 
 
c.  the Community Development Department’s response to that 
Application for Subdivision, in accordance with this Chapter; and 
 
d.  the Applicant’s reply to the Community Development Department’s 
response that addresses each of the Community Development 
37
Department’s required modifications or requests for additional 
information. 
 
2.  "Subdivision Improvement Plans" means the civil engineering plans 
associated with required infrastructure improvements and County 
controlled utilities required for a Subdivision. 
 
3.  "Subdivision Ordinance Review" means review by a county to verify that a 
Subdivision Application meets the criteria of the county’s ordinances. 
 
4.  "Subdivision Plan Review" means a review of the Applicant's Subdivision 
Improvement Plans and other aspects of the Subdivision Application to verify 
that the Application complies with this title and applicable installation 
Standards and inspection specifications for infrastructure improvements. 
 
C.  Subdivisions: 
 
1.  Special Provision: When a single parcel includes multiple Zone Districts, 
Density may be located upon the parcel in the most appropriate manner 
irrespective of the boundaries of the Zone Districts. 
 
2.  Plat Application required when land is subdivided: Whenever any land is laid 
out and platted, the Owner of the land shall provide to the County an 
accurate Plat that describes or specifies: 
 
a.  A Subdivision name that is distinct from any Subdivision name on a 
Plat recorded in the County Recorder’s office; and 
 
b.  The boundaries course and dimensions of all the parcels of ground 
divided, by their boundaries, course and extent, whether the Owner 
proposed that any parcel of ground is intended to be used as a street 
or for any other public use, and whether any such area is reserved or 
proposed for dedication for a public purpose; and 
 
c.  The Lot or unit reference, block or building reference, street or site 
address, street name or coordinate address, acreage or square 
footage for all parcels, unit or Lots, and length and width of the blocks 
and Lots intended for sale; and 
 
d.  Every existing Right-of-Way and recorded easement located within 
the Plat for: 
 
(1)  an underground facility; and 
 
38
(2)  a water conveyance facility; or 
 
(3)  any other Utility Facility. 
 
e.  Any water conveyance facility located, entirely or partially, within the 
Plat that: 
 
(1)  is not recorded; and 
 
(2)  of which the Owner of the land has actual or constructive 
knowledge, including from information made available to the 
Owner of the land, in the State Engineer’s inventory of canals 
or from a licensed surveyor. The Owner of the land shall file an 
Application for approval of the Plat. The Application form is 
available at the Community Development Department. A 
complete Application shall include all elements of the 
Subdivision listed in this section and shall provide all 
information required by the Subdivision Application. The 
Director or designated planning staff member may waive or 
defer specific submittal requirements if it is determined that 
the submittal requirement(s) are not necessary to 
demonstrate compliance with the provisions of this chapter. 
 
3.  All Land Necessary for Density Required: All of the land required for the 
Density needed to create the Lots within the Subdivision, including a 
remnant parcel, which on its own would not be large enough to qualify for 
any Density, shall be contained within the boundaries of the Final 
Subdivision Plat, and any remnant parcel shall bear a Plat note stating that 
no Density exists on such remnant parcel until such time (if ever) as the Zone 
District is changed to permit additional Density rights and the remnant 
parcel is, if necessary, re-subdivided in accordance with this chapter; or the 
remnant parcel is otherwise vacated from the Final Subdivision Plat for the 
purposes of a parcel boundary adjustment, which shall constitute good 
cause for thereof under State law. 
 
4.  Remainder Parcel: In the event that the parcel(s) being Subdivided contain 
more land than that which is needed to establish the Density for the 
Subdivision, such remainder parcel(s) do not need to be included within the 
boundaries of the Final Subdivision Plat if each of such remainder parcel(s) 
(or such number of them if contiguous) conform to the minimum size 
requirement of the applicable Zone District at the time. In such cases, a 
certificate executed by the County shall be recorded with the County 
Recorder, at the same time as the Final Subdivision Plat is recorded, against 
the remainder parcel(s) located outside of the Final Subdivision Plat stating 
39
that such remainder parcel(s) are conforming parcels pursuant to this 
Chapter. 
 
5.  Separate Review: Preliminary Subdivision Plats and Final Subdivision Plats 
shall be processed as separate Applications. 
 
6.  Land Use Authority: The land use authority for Preliminary Subdivision Plats 
shall be the Planning Commission and the County Manager for Final 
Subdivision Plats. 
 
7.  Subdivision Improvement Plan: A Subdivision Improvement Plan shall be 
submitted and reviewed as part of the Subdivision Plan Review during the 
final Subdivision process. 
8.  Preliminary Subdivision: 
 
a.  Pre-Application Meeting. 
 
(1)  A pre-application meeting is not required for Subdivision 
Applications subject to this Chapter, but is recommended. If a 
pre-application meeting is requested by an Applicant for a 
Subdivision Application subject to this Chapter, the 
Community Development Department shall, within 15 
business days after the request, schedule the meeting to 
review the concept plan and provide initial feedback. 
 
(2)  The Director or designated planning staff member shall 
provide at the pre-application meeting or have available on the 
County website the following: 
 
(A)  copies of applicable land use regulations; and 
 
(B)  a complete list of Standards required for the project; 
and 
 
(C)  preliminary and final Application checklists; and 
 
(D)  feedback on the concept plan. 
 
b.  Notification of Water Conveyance Facility: 
 
(1)  Within 20 days after the day on which an Owner of land 
submits to the County a complete Subdivision Plat land use 
application, the County shall mail written notice of the 
proposed Subdivision to the facility owner or any water 
40
conveyance facility located, entirely or partially, within 100 
feet of the Subdivision Plat. 
 
(2)  The County shall not approve the Subdivision Plat for at least 
20 days after the day on which the County mails to each facility 
owner the notice to receive any comments from each facility 
owner regarding: 
 
(A)  Access to the water conveyance facility; and 
 
(B)  Maintenance of the water conveyance facility; and 
 
(C)  Protection of the water conveyance facility integrity; 
and 
 
(D)  Safety of the water conveyance facility; or 
 
(E)  Any other issue related to water conveyance facility 
operations. 
 
c.  Subdivision Review: The Director or designated planning staff 
member shall conduct a review that includes all Affected Entities and 
Service Providers no later than 15 business days after the day on 
which an Applicant submits a complete Subdivision Application. 
Upon completion of the Subdivision Review, the Director or 
designated planning staff member shall prepare a report and make 
findings and recommendations and shall schedule a public hearing 
before the Planning Commission as soon thereafter as may be 
practicable. 
 
d.  Subdivision Review Standards: The following Subdivision review 
Standards apply. Because of the limited time frame for preliminary 
review, compliance with Standards may be written in the form of 
conditions of approval to be met during the Subdivision Plan Review 
part of the Final Subdivision plat. 
 
(1)  The Subdivision is compliant with the General Plan. 
 
(2)  The Subdivision is designed to fit into the topography of the 
site. Lots shall be sited to best fit into the natural terrain, to 
minimize excessive site grading and to mitigate impacts on the 
natural environment and resources of the surrounding area. 
The Subdivision layout shall demonstrate the preservation of 
watercourses, drainage areas, wooded areas, rough terrain 
41
and similar natural feature areas. 
 
(3)  The Subdivision considers Adjacent land uses. Site design 
shall mitigate any potential Adverse Impacts including, but not 
limited to flooding, erosion, subsidence, sloping of the soil or 
other dangers or nuisances. 
 
(4)  Where appropriate, Subdivisions shall be designed to 
accommodate a variety of transportation modes. 
Vehicle/pedestrian/bicycle/equestrian circulation shall be 
demonstrated, and where possible 
pedestrian/bicycle/equestrian circulation should be separated 
from vehicular circulation. 
 
(5)  Each proposed Lot shall have legal access through a recorded 
Right-Of-Way or easement. The Applicant shall demonstrate 
that adequate access to the property from a public Road may 
be granted by the State or County, whichever is applicable. 
 
(6)  Compliance with the Standards for Approval of Development 
Permits in chapter 4 of this title. 
 
e.  Public Hearing: The Planning Commission may hold no more than one 
public hearing for a preliminary Subdivision Plat. 
 
f.  Preliminary Subdivision Approval: If a preliminary Subdivision Plat 
complies with this title and all other applicable Standards and 
specifications, the Planning Commission shall approve the 
preliminary Subdivision. The Applicant shall be notified of the 
approval in the form of a letter specifically identifying each condition 
of approval along with the approved preliminary Subdivision and any 
other accompanying documents determined to be relevant by the 
Director or designated planning staff member. After preliminary 
approval, the Applicant may submit a Final Subdivision Application. 
 
9.  Final Subdivision: 
 
a. Upon approval of the preliminary Subdivision Plat, the Applicant shall 
submit a Final Subdivision Plat Application with all required material 
for the Subdivision Plan Review, including Subdivision Improvement 
Plans, and any amendments required by the Planning Commission 
during preliminary review. 
 
b.  No later than 20 business days after the day on which an Applicant 
42
submits all the required materials for the Final Subdivision Plat, the 
Director or designated planning staff member shall complete a 
Subdivision Plan Review subject to this Chapter. 
 
c.  Review Cycles: After conducting the Subdivision Plan Review, the 
Director or designated planning staff member may require that the 
Applicant provide: 
 
(1)  additional information relating to an Applicant's plans to 
ensure compliance with County ordinances and approved 
Standards and specifications for construction of Public 
Improvements; and 
 
(2)  modification to plans that do not meet current ordinances, 
applicable Standards, or specifications, or do not contain 
complete information. 
 
d.  The Director or designated planning staff member’s request for 
additional information or modifications to plans under (c)(1), and (2) 
above shall be specific and refer to conditions of approval included in 
the preliminary approval, regulations, Standards, or specifications 
that require the modifications to plans, and shall be logged in an 
index of requested modifications or additions. 
 
e.  Unless the change or correction is necessitated by the Applicant's 
adjustment to a plan set or an update to a phasing plan that adjusts 
the infrastructure needed for the specific Development, a change or 
correction not addressed or referenced in the County’s Subdivision 
Plan Review is waived, except if the modifications or corrections are 
necessary to protect public health and safety or to enforce state or 
federal law. 
 
f.  If an Applicant does not submit a revised plan within 20 business days 
after the Director or designated planning staff member requires a 
modification or correction, the County shall have an additional 20 
business days to respond to the plans. 
 
g.  After the Applicant has responded to the final Review Cycle, and the 
Applicant has complied with each modification requested in the 
County’s previous Review Cycle, the County may not require 
additional revisions if the Applicant has not materially changed the 
plan, other than changes that were in response to requested 
modifications or corrections. 
 
43
h.  Utah Code Annotated Section 17-79-706(8)(c) limits Review Cycles to 
no more than four. 
 
i.  The Review Cycle restrictions and requirements of this Chapter do 
not apply to review of Subdivision Applications affecting property 
within identified Geological Hazard Areas. 
 
j.  Applicant’s Reply to Community Development Department’s 
Response: 
 
(1)  In addition to revised plans submitted during Final Subdivision 
Plat Reviews, an Applicant shall provide a written explanation 
in response to the Director or designated planning staff 
member’s review comments with each Review Cycle, 
identifying and explaining the Applicant's revisions and 
reasons for declining to make revisions, if any. 
 
(2)  The Applicant's written explanation shall be comprehensive 
and specific, including citations to applicable Standards and 
ordinances for the design and an index of requested revisions 
or additions for each required correction. 
 
(3)  If an Applicant fails to address a review comment in the 
response, the Review Cycle is not complete and the 
subsequent Review Cycle may not begin until all comments 
are addressed. 
 
k.  Appeal: If, on the fourth or final Review Cycle, the Community 
Development Department fails to take final action on the Subdivision 
within 20 business days, the County shall, upon the request of the 
property Owner, and within 10 business days after the day on which 
the request is received: 
 
(1)  For a dispute arising from the Subdivision Improvement Plans, 
assemble an appeal panel in accordance with Subsection 17-
79-812(5)(d) of Utah Code Annotated to review and approve or 
deny the final revised set of plans; or 
 
(2)  For a dispute arising from the Subdivision ordinance review, 
advise the Applicant in writing of the deficiency in the 
Application and of the right to appeal the determination to the 
County Council. 
 
l.  The County Manager shall approve a Final Subdivision Plat if the Final 
44
Subdivision Plat complies with the Planning Commission’s 
preliminary Subdivision approval, applicable Code regulations, and 
all other applicable Standards and specifications. 
 
10.  Plat Preparation: In addition to all requirements in Section C.2 of this 
chapter, prior to recordation, the final Plat shall contain the following: 
 
a.  Notarized signatures of each Owner of record of land described in the 
Plat in the Owner’s designation part of the Plat. 
 
b.  Notarized signatures on the Plat by every person having a security 
interest in the property which sets forth that he/she is subordinating 
his/her liens to all covenants, servitude and easements imposed on 
the property, and all conditions of Development approval proposed 
by the County. 
 
c.  Signatures of the County Recorder, Land Use Authority, County 
Engineer, Health Department, the Public Safety Answering Point, 
applicable Fire District and County Attorney. 
 
d.  Certification by a surveyor licensed in the State of Utah. 
 
11.  Plat Recordation 
 
a.  After the Plat has been acknowledged, certified and approved, the 
Owner of the land seeking to record the Plat shall record the Plat in 
the County Recorder’s office per the requirements in Section 10-9-11 
of this Title. 
 
b.  The County shall withhold an otherwise valid Plat approval until the 
Owner of the land provides the Community Development Department 
with a tax clearance indicating that all taxes, interest, and penalties 
owing for the land have been paid. 
 
c.  Within 30 days after approving a Final Plat, the County shall submit to 
the Utah Geospatial Resource Center: 
 
(1)  An electronic copy of the approved Final Plat; or 
 
(2)  Preliminary geospatial data that depicts any new streets and 
situs addresses proposed for construction within the bound of 
the approved Plat. 
 
 
45
10-3-15(A)(1) and (D)(2): PARCEL BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENTS FOR PARCELS OUTSIDE A 
SUBDIVISION: 
 
A. A property Owner: 
 
1. May execute a Parcel Boundary Adjustment by quitclaim deed or by a 
boundary line agreement, as described in Utah Code Annotated section 17-
79-806, 17-79-807, or 57-1-45. 
 
D. Division Of Land For Non-Development Purposes: 
 
2. A division of a parcel without conformance to the Subdivision Plat 
requirements of this Title or the certificate required by Utah Code Annotated 
section 17-79-708, as amended, does not create a Lot of Record for the 
purposes of this Title. However, in conformance with Utah Code Annotated 
section 17-79-708, as amended, such divisions of land can be recorded for 
the purposes of conveying property ownership. 
 
 
10-3-18(G)(1)(d)(1): BUILDING PERMIT AND CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY: 
 
G. Site Plan Requirements: 
 
(1) Agricultural exempt Buildings that comply with section 17-79-708 of the Utah 
Code Annotated are excluded from these Site Plan requirements. However, 
Agricultural exempt Buildings closer than three feet (3') to the required 
Setback line or greater than twenty-eight feet (28') in Height will require an 
inspection by the Community Development Department to ensure that 
Setback and Height requirements for the Zone District in which they are 
located are being met. 
 
 
10-4-16(F)(2): PARKS, TRAILS, AND TRAILHEADS: 
 
F. Pedestrian Nonmotorized Trail Systems: 
 
2. In the event a Community Wide Trail, as identified on the master trails plan 
adopted by the Recreation District, is located on a Development parcel, the 
county may, pursuant to the provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 17-
79-812, require as part of the Development approval that the proportional 
share of the Community Wide Trail system running through their site be 
provided by the Developer as a condition of approval. The proportional share 
may be provided by deed, easements or Rights of Way for the Community 
Wide Trail system managed by the Recreation District. When new 
46
Development Applications require community benefits in exchange for 
increased Density as a condition of approval, trail dedication and/or 
construction will qualify in the criteria to be considered. Trail construction 
shall be consistent with the design guidelines of the Recreation District and 
the Snyderville Basin trails master plan and Community Wide Trail system 
Development Standards. 
 
 
10-4-20(C)(4): LANDSCAPING: 
 
C. Improvement Completion Assurance Required: 
 
4. This remaining ten percent (10%) shall constitute the warranty under Utah 
Code Annotated section 17-79-707 and shall be for a period of two (2) years. 
 
 
10-7-2(C)(3)-(4): AMENDMENT TO GENERAL PLAN:  
 
C. Procedures For Amending General Plan Text Or General Plan Land Use Map: 
 
3. Prior to recommending the adoption, rejection or revision of any General 
Plan amendment, the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing in 
accordance with the procedures in Utah Code Annotated, section 17-79-
205, after receiving the report of the Director or designated planning staff 
member and providing reasonable notice. The Director or designated 
planning staff member shall cause reasonable notice of the hearing to be 
published. 
 
4. After the Planning Commission has issued its recommendation, the Director 
or designated planning staff member shall submit a copy of the General Plan 
amendment, the recommendation of the Planning Commission, the report of 
the Director or designated planning staff member, any proposed revisions to 
the General Plan amendment, and the transcripts of the proceedings before 
the Planning Commission and its recommendation to the County Council. 
Following receipt of a certified copy of the General Plan amendment from the 
Planning Commission, the County Council shall schedule a public hearing to 
decide whether to adopt the amendment. The Director or designated 
planning staff member shall cause reasonable notice to be published. The 
County Council shall consider the proposed amendment and the 
recommendation of the Planning Commission pursuant to the procedures 
established in Utah Code Annotated, section 17-79-205. The County Council 
shall approve the amendment, approve the amendment with modifications 
or reject the proposed amendment. The County Council may approve a 
General Plan amendment only upon the affirmative vote of a majority of its 
total membership. If the County Council approves the proposed 
47
amendment, as submitted or as modified, the County Council shall adopt 
the amendment by ordinance specifically referencing the same and shall 
cause to be affixed to the amendment the signature of the chair of the 
County Council. 
 
 
10-8-5(B)(1) and (2)(g): ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS, INTERNAL ACCESSORY 
DWELLING UNITS AND LIVE/WORK DWELLING UNITS:  
 
B. Internal Accessory Dwelling Units: As an alternative to the standards in 10-8-5(A), 
the following Standards apply. Internal Accessory Dwelling Units are an incidental 
residential Use within the Building footprint of a Single-Family Detached Dwelling 
Unit. 
 
1. Applicability: Internal Accessory Dwelling Units must comply with the 
standards found in Utah Code Annotated section 17-80-303 as amended. If 
an Accessory Dwelling Unit is within or attached to a Single-Family Detached 
Dwelling Unit but does not comply with all standards in Utah Code 
Annotated section 17-80-303 as amended, the Standards outlined in 10-8-
5(A) of this Title shall apply. 
 
2.  General Standards: All Accessory Dwelling Units shall conform to the 
following standards: 
 
g.  Certificate of Occupancy: A certificate of occupancy for an Accessory 
Dwelling Unit shall only be granted concurrent with or after the 
issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the Single-Family Detached 
Dwelling Unit or the associated commercial Use. If an existing 
residence is proposed to be converted to an Accessory Dwelling Unit 
in conjunction with a proposed primary Single-Family Detached 
Dwelling Unit, the Building Permit for the new primary Single-Family 
Detached Dwelling Unit shall not be issued until Staff has determined 
that the structure to be converted to an Accessory Dwelling Unit 
complies with all applicable requirements. 
 
 
10-8-13(C): HAZARDOUS LIQUIDS OR MATERIALS TRANSMISSION PIPELINES:  
 
C. Definitions: 
 
JURISDICTIONAL WETLANDS: An area delineated and approved as a wetland by the 
United States army corps of engineers consistent with Utah Code Annotated 
section 17-79-608.
 
 
 
48
10-9-1: PURPOSE: 
 
This title is adopted for the statutorily authorized purposes set forth in Utah Code 
Annotated, section 17-79-101, as such may be amended from time to time. 
 
 
10-9-2: AUTHORITY: 
 
This title implements the Snyderville Basin General Plan of the county (hereinafter "plan"), 
which has been prepared and adopted pursuant to Utah Code Annotated, section 17-79-
401. This title contains requirements for consistency with the General Plan, the processing 
and approval of Subdivision Plats and Site Plans, building and Development Permits, 
variances, administrative relief and appeals, Conditional Use permits, amendments to the 
General Plan and Zoning Districts, specific plans and Development Agreements as 
authorized by the county land use development and management act, Utah Code 
Annotated, section 17-79-101 et seq. 
 
 
10-9-9(A), (B), and (C): AMENDMENT AND LEGAL EFFECT OF GENERAL PLAN: 
 
A. The county has adopted a General Plan for Development pursuant to the 
procedures set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 17-79-401. The General Plan 
is hereby declared to be binding for purposes of future amendments to this title, 
and all Applications for Development approval, Development Permits, specific 
plans, administrative relief and appeals. All above Applications for Development 
approval shall be consistent with the General Plan pursuant to the authority granted 
in Utah Code Annotated section 17-79-405. 
 
B. The General Plan text and land use maps may be amended as provided by Utah 
Code Annotated section 17-79-404 and chapter 7 of this title. No amendment to the 
General Plan may be recommended by the Planning Commission or approved by 
the County Council unless such amendment is internally consistent with the other 
elements of the General Plan, the General Plan land use maps and the goals, 
objectives and policies of the General Plan. If any amendment is proposed that is 
inconsistent with any element or provision of the existing General Plan, such 
amendment shall include proposed additions, revisions or deletions to the other 
elements or provisions of the General Plan as needed to maintain consistency 
between the various elements and provisions of the General Plan. 
 
C. This chapter and this title as adopted are hereby declared to be consistent with the 
General Plan of the county pursuant to the provisions of Utah Code Annotated 
section 17-79-405.
 
 
 
 
49
10-9-17(B)(4): DETERMINATIONS OF VESTED RIGHTS AND OTHER DISPUTES: 
 
B. Procedure And Approval: 
 
4. After the Applicant has received approval or denial of a determination of 
vested rights, an appeal from the decision of the County Council shall be 
made by any Aggrieved Person to the district court of the county within thirty 
(30) days of such decision, in accordance with Utah Code Annotated, 
section 17-79-1009. 
 
 
10-9-20(B): VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES: 
 
B. The county attorney reserves the right to enforce this title using any of the remedies 
provided for in Utah Code Annotated, section 17-79-901.
 
 
 
10-9-21(A): REMEDIES: 
 
A. No person may challenge in district court a land Use decision under this title until 
they have exhausted all of their administrative remedies provided herein. Any 
person adversely affected by any final administrative decision made pursuant to 
this title must file a petition for review of that final decision with the district court 
within thirty (30) days and comply with all other requirements of Utah Code 
Annotated, section 17-79-1009. Failure to comply with this section of the state law 
divests the district court of the subject matter jurisdiction to review decisions of the 
County. 
 
 
10-9-22(D)-(G): APPEAL PROCEDURES: 
 
D. Timing: Unless otherwise specified in this section or under the County Land Use 
Management Act contained within Title 17, Chapter 79 of Utah Code Annotated, all 
appeal periods are based upon calendar days and appeals must be received on or 
before the close of business (5:00 p.m.) on the last day of the appeal period. Failure 
to file a completed appeal form (Application) within the time period specific shall 
act as a jurisdictional bar and render the appeal moot. Electronic submissions of 
completed Applications (.pdf, .jpg, .tif, etc.) will be accepted by the County via 
email if time stamped as being received prior to 5:00 p.m. on the last day of the 
appeal period.
 
 
G. Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated, section17-79-1009et. seq, an appeal of a County 
Council or  Administrative Law Judge action goes to district court. 
 
 
50
 
 
CHAPTER 11: DEFINITIONS 
 
AFFECTED ENTITIES: A county, municipality, local district, special service district, school 
district, interlocal cooperation entity, property owners association, public utility, or the 
Utah Department of Transportation, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 17-79-
102(3) or successor law. 
 
CODE: Title 10 of the Summit County Code. 
 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT: The Summit County department of 
community development. 
 
CONDITIONAL USE: A land Use that, because of the unique characteristics or potential 
impact of the land Use on the County, surrounding neighbors, or Adjacent land Uses, may 
not be compatible in some areas or may be compatible only if certain conditions are 
required that mitigate or eliminate the Adverse Impacts. 
 
DIRECTOR: The director of the Community Development Department, or authorized 
designee, with overall administrative control of the planning, building, and zoning 
functions of the County, under the direction of the County Manager.  
 
DWELLING UNIT, INTERNAL ACCESSORY: The definition of an Internal Accessory Dwelling 
Unit shall be identical to the definition used in Utah Code Annotated section 17-80-303 as 
amended.
 
 
IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION ASSURANCE: The financial assurance for completion of all 
Landscaping consistent with Utah Code Annotated section17-79-707. 
LAND USE AUTHORITY: The Community Development Director, Planning Commission, 
Administrative Law Judge, County Manager or County Council, as the case may be, who is 
empowered under this title to make land use decisions on behalf of Summit County. 
 
OWNER: Any person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or corporations, or any 
other legal entity having legal title to or sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to 
be developed or subdivided under this title. 
 
PARCEL BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT: An adjustment to property boundaries as set forth in 
Utah Code Annotated section 17-79-806, 17-79-807, or 57-1-45. 
 
PLANNING COMMISSION: The Snyderville Basin Planning Commission, the appointment 
and duties of which are provided for in section 17-79-302 et seq., of Utah Code Annotated 
and section 10-9-10 of this title. 
 
51
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: Any drainage ditch or system, roadway, parkway, sidewalk, 
pedestrian way, tree, lawn, off street parking area, lot improvement, water or sewer 
system, or other facility for which the County may ultimately assume the responsibility for 
maintenance and operation, or which may affect an improvement for which County 
responsibility is established. All such improvements shall be properly guaranteed and 
installed pursuant to County codes, specifications and regulations. 
 
RECREATION DISTRICT: The Snyderville Basin Special Recreation District. 
 
 
52
 Community Development Department 
P.O. Box 128 
60 North Main Street 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
summitcountyutah.gov 
STAFF REPORT 
To:
  Snyderville Basin Planning Commission 
From:  Tiffanie N. Robinson 
Date of Meeting: January 13, 2026 
Type of Item:  Plat Amendment - Public Hearing, Possible Action 
Process: Administrative Review 
File #:  25-200
Proposal 
The applicant, Brandon Brady, Summit County  Engineer, on behalf of the property  owner , is 
requesting an amendment to lot SCO -C-AM-7A, located in the Silver Creek Commerce Center. 
The amendment would designate a public right -of-way at the southwest corner of the lot for 
acceptance by the Summit County Highway Authority, securing sufficient right-of-way for future 
development and the construction of a roundabout at the intersection of Silver Creek Drive and 
Promontory Ranch Road. EXHIBIT A  
Project Description 
Project Name: Silver Creek Commerce Center Plat C Lot 7A Subdivision  
Project #   25-200
Property Owner: Silver Creek Commerce Park LLC, Don Craig 
Applicant:  Brandon Brady, County Engineer 
Parcel #:  SCO-C-AM-7A, 2.02 acres 
Parcel Address:  6324 Silver Creek Drive, Silver Summit 
Zone District:   Community Commercial – CC 
Type of Process: Plat Amendment 
Final Land Use Authority: Snyderville Basin Planning Commission 
Vicinity Map
53
2 
 
 
Background 
The Silver Creek Commerce Center Plat C subdivision was recorded  in 1991 and included nine 
lots ranging from approximately 2.72  acres to 21.52 acres. In 1998, Lot 7  was subdivided into 
two lots: Lot 7A and Lot 7B, each approximately 2.02 acres. EXHIBIT B 
 
 Parcel SCO -C-AM-7A is a legal lot  in the Community Commercial (CC) zone. The property is 
currently undeveloped.   
 
On November 4, 2025, the applicant, Brandon Brady, submitted a Plat Amendment to designate 
a right-of-way on the southwest corner of parcel SCO -C-AM-7A for a future roundabout at the 
intersection of Silver Creek Drive and Promontory Ranch Road.   
 
Analysis and Findings 
The Planning Commission may approve, approve with conditions, or deny an Amendment to a 
Recorded Subdivision Plat based upon written findings of fact according to each of the 
following standards. It is the responsibility of the applicant to provide written and graphic 
evidence demonstrating compliance:   
  
Standard 1: If the land use authority is satisfied that neither the public nor any person will be 
materially injured by the proposed vacation, alteration or amendment, and that there is good 
cause for the vacation, alteration or amendment, the county manager or land use authority 
may vacate, alter or amend the plat, any portion of the plat, or any road or lot. COMPLIES 
  
Analysis: There is good cause for the amendment, as the proposed plat amendment will 
designate a public right of way for the construction of a future roundabout. 
 
Standard 2: No plat amendment shall be approved that  results in an increase in density. 
COMPLIES  
 
Analysis: There is no increase in density. 
 
Public Notice, Meetings and Comments  
This item was publicly noticed as a public hearing with possible action by the Snyderville Basin 
Planning Commission. Notice of the public hearing was published in the Park Record. Courtesy 
postcards were mailed to all property owners within a 1,000-foot radius of the subject Parcel. 
 
As of the date of this report, no public comment has been received. 
 
Recommendation 
54
3 
 
Staff has reviewed the application for compliance with the applicable standards in the 
Snyderville Basin Development Code and has found that it meets the minimum requirements  
for approval.  
 
Staff recommends that the Snyderville Basin  Planning Commission review the proposed Plat 
Amendment, conduct a public hearing , and vote to approve the proposal pursuant to the 
Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Conditions of Approval found in this Staff Report.   
 
Findings of Fact: 
1. Silver Creek Commerce Park LLC is listed as the fee title owner of SCO-C-AM-7A. 
2. SCO-C-AM-7A is addressed as 6324 Silver Creek Drive. 
3. SCO-C-AM-7A is 2.02 acres in size. 
4. SCO-C-AM-7A is in the Community Commercial (CC) Zone.  
5. Silver Creek Commerce Plat C, containing 9 lots, was recorded on  August 15, 1991. 
6. Lot 7 was divided into two (2) lots by recording the Amended Plat of Lot 7  Silver Creek 
Commerce Center, on November 18, 1998.  
7. On November 14, 2025, the Summit County Community Development Department 
received a Plat Amendment application for Parcel SCO -C-AM-7A called the Silver Creek 
Commerce Plat C Lot 7A Subdivision.  
8. The applicant, Brandon Brady,  Summit County Engineer,  on behalf of the property 
owners, submitted a plat amendment application to amend the lot  to include a public 
road easement.  
9. The proposed plat amendment would designate a right- of-way for a future roundabout 
on the southwest corner of the lot. 
10. Staff and service providers reviewed the project for all applicable criteria. As 
conditioned, the proposed plat amendment complies with the standards set forth.  
 
Conclusions of Law:  
1. There is good cause for the amendment, as the proposed plat amendment would 
formally amend the Silver Creek Commerce Plat C Lot 7A Amended subdivision, 
designating a Right- of-Way for a future roundabout, which would not impact or 
materially injure any person.  
2. No increases in density would occur as a result of this amendment. 
 
Conditions of Approval: 
1. All necessary service provider requirements shall be noted on the plat prior to 
recordation. 
2. Final plat amendment recordation documents shall be in a form that is acceptable to 
and approved by the County Attorney’s Office and the County Recorder’s Office. 
  
Attachment(s)  
Exhibit A – Silver Creek Commerce Plat C Lot 7A Amended Plat  
Exhibit B –  Original and Amended Plats 
55
189
80
248
Coalville
Kamas
Echo
Reservoir
Junction
Snyderville
Kimball
40
248
80
224
Junction
Jordanelle
Reservoir
Rockport
Reservoir
City
Silver Creek
Heber
PARK
SALT LAKE
CITY
CITY
PROJECT SITE
Junction
Quinns
Wanship
Peoa
Oakley
Δ
∆
∆
∆
∆
VICINITY MAP
NO SCALE
NORTH0 30 60 120 180
SCALE: 1"=60'
LOCATED IN THE NORTHEAST QUARTER OF  SECTION 22, TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 4 EAST,
SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN, SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
SILVER CREEK COMMERCE CENTER 2ND AMENDED PLAT OF LOT 7A.
FOR REVIEW
DO NOT RECORD
11/3/2025
22 23
1515
22
14
POINT OF
BEGINNING
SILVER CREEK COMMERCE CENTER
2ND AMENDED PLAT OF LOT 7A
SHEET 1 OF 1
CORNERPOINT
SILVER CREEK DRIVE
(PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY)
RIGHT OF WAY
DEDICATED TO THE PUBLIC
LOT 7A
1.945 ACRES
84,721 SQ. FT.
6324 SILVER CREEK DRIVE
LOT 7B
PROMONTORY RANCH ROAD
(PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY)
LOT 8
JUSTICE CENTER DRIVE
(PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY)
LOT 5
LOT 6B
LOT 4A
·
·
·
LOT 2A-AM
SILVER CREEK COMMERCE
CENTER - PLAT 'A'
ENTRY No. 295032
LOT 9
22
AMENDED PLAT OF LOT 7 SILVER CREEK
COMMERCE CENTER PLAT 'C'
ENTRY No. 524275
LEGEND:
PLAT "C" AMENDED SILVER CREEK
COMMERCE CENTER
ENTRY No. 345364
PLAT "C" AMENDED SILVER CREEK
COMMERCE CENTER
ENTRY No. 345364
EXHIBIT A
56
EXHIBIT B1
57
EXHIBIT B2
58
 
STAFF REPORT 
     
To:   Snyderville Basin Planning Commission   
From:   Laura Kuhrmeyer, County Planner 
Date of Meeting: January 13, 2026 
Type of Item: Development Agreement Amendment 
Process:  Legislative Review 
File #:   25-111 
    
 
Project Description 
Project Name: 4th Amendment to the Development Agreement for the Utah 
Olympic Park Specially Planned Area  
Applicant(s): Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation (c/o Colin Hilton) 
Property Owner(s): Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation 
Location: 3419 Olympic Parkway  
Zone District: Resort Center (RC)  
Parcel Number and Size: PP-63-A (254.40 acres), PP-62-3-UAF (2.00 acres),                          
KJS-6-1AM (3.00 acres), PP-62-KJS (5.20 acres),                                
PP-62-4 (3.00 acres), and PP-62-KJS (11.31 acres) 
Type of Process: Specially Planned Area Development Agreement Amendment 
Final Land Use Authority: Summit County Council (Council) 
 
Proposal 
The applicant, Colin Hilton, is requesting several amendments to the Utah Olympic Park Specially 
Planned Area Development Agreement (DA). The redlined Development Agreement is attached 
as Exhibit 2 with supplemental documents attached as additional exhibits. 
 
There are five primary changes proposed: 
1. Replacing the Final Site Plan with a Master Conceptual Development Plan (MCDP) that 
shows all existing buildings in their as -built locations and planned areas of future 
development. This includes rearranging the parcels shown on the original Final Site Plan.  
2. Modifying the Land Use & Zoning Chart 1 to adjust the maximum building height, 
maximum gross floor area, and principal uses for several parcels.  
3. Modifying the Land Use & Zoning Chart 2 to move three uses (Hotel, Inn; Ski Lift, New; 
and Ski Run, New) from Conditional to Low Impact. 
4. Modifying the way that Affordable Athlete and Workforce Housing Units are calculated. 
5. Requesting the County Council designate the UOP as a “Major Sporting Event Venue,” 
pursuant to SB333, 2025 General Legislative Session. 
 
 
59
 
Vicinity Map 
 
 
Background 
Most of the existing development on the site was done prior to the 2002 Olympic Games and 
largely approved through the State. The Utah Olympic Park (UOP) Specially Planned Area (SPA) 
designation and rezone was approved by the Council in 2013 (Ordinance 820).  
 
On August 26, 2025, the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission (Commission) held a work 
session to discuss the proposed amendments (see August 26th Meeting Minutes).  
Following the work session, the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission (SBPC) reviewed the 
proposed amendments with the applicant and opened a public hearing on October 14, 2025 
(see October 14th Draft Meeting Minutes). Ultimately the Commission requested that the item 
be continued to the November 25th, 2025 meeting in order to allow the Applicant time to 
provide additional information as requested by members of the public and the Commissioners.  
 
Table A: October 14th Discussion Items & Applicant’s Response 
TOPIC QUESTION/CONCERN APPLICANT’S RESPONSE 
Parcel 6  
There were several 
concerns raised for 
proposed Parcel 6 
including: ridgeline 
development, wildlife 
impacts, trail impacts, 
maximum height, etc. 
“The updated proposed conceptual master 
development plan reverts the proposed 
‘Parcel 6’ back to the size and location 
originally approved in Parcels 13 and 14 in the 
2013 approved agreement with an updated 
maximum building height of 35 feet.” 
60
 
Ridgeline Development 
(Parcel 7 & 8) 
How will ridgeline 
development be limited, 
specifically for Parcels 7 
and 8? 
“The proposed amendment to 
the Development agreement specifically 
addresses ridgeline impacts that mirror 
Summit County Code language.” 
 
The Snyderville Basin Development Code (10-
4-3(C)(1)) includes an exception that allows 
development to occur within the ridgeline 
overlay zone so long as it complies with 
specific criteria listed in 10-4-3(C)(1)(a). 
Traffic 
Verify that the trip 
generation memo is 
based on a Maximum 
Floor Area and not a 
Building Footprint total. 
Staff has included Condition of Approval #4g to 
require that the Applicant meet with the Summit 
County Transportation Department to review the 
Traffic Memo prior to County Council. 
Open Space 
Clearly identify the 
required open space 
areas on the Conceptual 
Master Development 
Plan. 
“Exhibit H States ‘As required in Chapter 5.1 of 
the General Plan Utah Olympic Park provides 
meaningful open space.’ 
82% of Utah Olympic Park Site is provided as 
Open Space. Open Space is proposed in large 
contiguous areas and includes near view 
buffers as identified in the General 
Plan.  Required Open Space is located to 
protect the most important attributes and 
character of the site. Utah Olympic Park 
preserves:   
• Scenic hillside viewsheds and 
ridgelines.    
• Provides open space connections to 
and through the village linking 
adjacent neighborhoods to  
amenities, parks and trails.” 
Wildlife 
Impacts/Environmental 
Study 
Summarize the wildlife 
impacts and required 
environmental studies 
from previous approvals, 
and how they apply to 
the current proposal. 
“The vast majority of the current proposed 
update does not impact any wildlife habitat or 
migration areas as defined in the Snyderville 
Basin General Plan and the State of Utah 
Department of Natural Resources. “ 
Staff has included Condition of Approval #4a 
to ensure that where there is a potential 
impact to wildlife area, UOLF will work with 
DWR to enact best mitigation practices. 
61
 
Old vs Proposed 
Parcels 
Provide a map overlaying 
the previous vs. 
proposed parcel 
locations and sizes. 
Attached as Exhibit 4. 
Trails 
Detail any proposed 
additions, relocations, or 
modifications to the trail 
network. 
Attached as Exhibit 6. 
Exemptions of Gross 
Floor Area  
“Support uses are secondary, subordinate, 
and incidental to the principal use and are not 
intended to function as independent, 
standalone uses. They exist only to serve, 
enhance, or enable the primary function. 
Excluding support uses will allow the park to 
provide adequate parking, staff facilities, 
storage, maintenance areas, and amenities, 
Improve safety, operations, guest experience, 
ensure developers do not cut corners to stay 
within density caps. 
This is consistent with other development 
agreements and RC Zones within the County 
and is especially important for resorts, hotels, 
mixed-use villages, and institutional uses, 
which require substantial ancillary areas.” 
Hotel 
Operation/Ownership 
Define the operational 
parameters: who will be 
able to use it, maximum 
stay length, whether 
units are individually 
owned, and the mix of 
market rate vs. deed 
restricted/affordable 
units? 
“Hotel is a for-profit, private facility, open to 
the public. Units will be platted as a 
condominium and individually owned. CCRs 
will restrict usage by owners to maximize 
rental revenue for the park and the operator 
as is customary in every condominium 
building in Summit County.” 
Ski Runs 
Clarify what the lights-
out time will be to 
address resident 
concerns about lighting 
impacts. 
“The UOP lighted ski runs will look to follow 
the previously approved lighting plan. This 
allows for use up to 11:00pm, per existing 
County lighting ordinance. We envision 
9:00pm to be the routine cut off time.” 
62
 
Refine Athlete Support 
definition 
Provide a refined, clear 
definition of "Athlete 
Support" uses. 
The applicant has refined the definition of 
Athlete Support Areas to better specify uses 
that serve athletes and workforce. Because 
these uses are not feasible as independent 
projects, they are designated as support uses. 
Public Benefit 
What additional public 
benefits are being 
provided? 
“All previous public benefits will be 
maintained. Additional public benefits include 
additional hospitality amenities for the park 
and improved sustainability to the UOLF 
business model.” 
AUEs 
Compare previous 
obligation vs proposed 
obligation  
Staff finds that the proposed amendments 
result in a reduced total AUE obligation. 
Transfer of density 
around site 
Where is development 
limited to? 
“The Updated LUZ Chart note specifies that 
density can only be transferred between 
Parcels 1-5, limiting the proposed density on 
Parcels 6-8 to only what is listed in the table.” 
Low Impact Permit 
Review Oversight  
All Low Impact Permits (LIPs) within this DA 
are subject to review by the Development 
Review Committee (DRC) – which consists of 
two UOP staff members, two Planning 
Commissioners, and one County Planning staff 
member. Additionally, LIPs must comply with 
the Development Code, specifically regarding 
the mitigation of noise, lighting, traffic, safety, 
wildlife, and other impacts. 
Items of Concern that are Outside of Planning Commission’s purview in the DA Amendment. 
Gate Use 
While we understand the concern of the gate usage, Bear Hollow Drive is 
a Class B Public Road and cannot be legally closed without a formal 
approval from County Council as the Road Authority 
Pool Operations The County does not have jurisdiction to control the closure of the pool.  
Proprietary financial 
Information of UOLF 
Proprietary financial information is not within the purview of the Planning 
Commission. 
 
 
 
 
 
63
 
Process for Amending the DA  
The DA outlines a process for a substantial amendment and a process for an administrative 
amendment as shown below. Due to the various proposed changes, Staff finds that the 
proposed amendment falls under the substantial amendment process.  
    
  Image B: Process for Amending the DA 
 
   
 
Applicable Development Code Requirements  
The original approval of the Utah Olympic Park was done through a Specially Planned Area 
(SPA) process which also requires a Master Planned Development. According to Development 
Code 10-3-11, a Major SPA Plan Modification shall be reviewed by the Snyderville Basin 
Planning Commission who will make a recommendation to County Council. 
Major SPA Plan Modification Standards 10-3-11(6) 
Standard 1: Circumstances relevant to the request have changed or were unknown at the time 
of the original SPA plan approval.  
 
COMPLIES: At the time of the original SPA approval, the Final Site Plan in Exhibit C was 
created based on anticipated development plans. Since that time, the location of several 
buildings has been moved. The proposed Master Conceptual Development Plan (MCDP) 
would accurately reflect as-built locations for existing buildings and update the 
anticipated building locations for future development. 
 
 
 
 
64
 
Standard 2: The modification will not otherwise alter any of the findings required for the 
approval of the original SPA. 
 
COMPLIES: Staff finds that with the proposed modifications, the Development 
Agreement is still in line with the Snyderville Basin General Plan. Since the proposed 
amendments will increase density, Staff reviewed the amendments under Development 
Code 10-2-12(D) – outlines the criteria for density in excess of base density. The Code 
states that maximum density (5 units per one acre) can only be achieved through 
significant accomplishment of the community benefits listed in section 10-2-12(D)(2). 
The listed community benefits include: Environmental enhancements, restricted 
affordable housing, contribution to community trails and parks, exceeding open space 
requirements for project, tax base and economic enhancements, and compatibility with 
town, resort, village design. Staff finds that the project does provide community benefits 
as outlined in 10-2-12(D). 
 
Standard 3: The modification is generally consistent with the efficient development and 
preservation of the entire SPA Plan.  
 
COMPLIES: The amendments are consistent with the original SPA plan and guiding 
principles. The modifications will clarify and refine the document as well as ensure long-
term viability of the park.   
 
Standard 4: The modification does not affect in a substantially adverse manner either the 
enjoyment of land abutting upon or in the general vicinity of the property in question.  
 
COMPLIES: The Applicant hosted two open houses in November to educate the 
neighbors about the details of the project and to hear their concerns. For example, 
several concerns were raised relating to Parcel 6. To address these concerns, the 
Applicant has removed this requested new parcel from the proposed amendments and 
has instead gone back to the original parcel locations of parcels 13 & 14 (though they 
are now labeled 6A and 6B). This will significantly reduce any adverse impacts on 
surrounding neighbors. The Applicant is also working on addressing the other concerns 
raised by neighbors, to the best of their abilities, prior to a Council hearing. 
 
Standard 5: The public health, safety and general welfare are not adversely impaired by the 
modification.  
 
COMPLIES, as conditioned: Staff finds that if the Applicant provides the necessary items 
to alleviate/mitigate any new impacts, then public health, safety and general welfare 
will not be adversely affected by the proposed amendments. 
 
 
 
 
65
 
Master Planned Development Standards 10-2-18(D)(6) 
Additionally, Development Code 10-2-18(D)(6) states that a major amendment to a Master 
Planned Development (MPD) is defined as an amendment that increases square footage, 
density, or intensity of the previously approved MPD.  
 
Table B: Master Planned Development Standards (10-2-18) 
MPD REQUIREMENT ANALYSIS FINDINGS 
Affected Properties 
All MPD applications shall include all 
contiguous holdings by the owner, 
unless specifically waived by the 
planning commission. 
The Development Agreement Amendment 
does not propose to modify the properties 
that are already included in the 
Development Agreement. 
COMPLIES 
 
Density  
The type of development and 
number of units created shall be 
determined by a site suitability 
analysis. 
While the proposed modifications result in 
an increase in the density allowed in the 
original Development Agreement, Staff 
finds that the project does provide 
additional community benefits as 
required in 10-2-12(D). 
COMPLIES 
Setbacks 
Setbacks for all Structures within an 
MPD shall be determined by the 
requirements found in each 
individual zone district. 
There are no proposed amendments to the 
Setbacks. COMPLIES 
Building Height 
The maximum Building Height for 
all structures within an MPD shall 
not exceed the requirements found 
in each individual zone district. 
The proposed amendments to building 
heights for individual parcels are consistent 
with other parcels within the Development 
Agreement. 
COMPLIES 
Designing with Topography 
MPDs shall be designed to fit into 
the topography of the site. 
 
The proposed amendments are intended to 
relocate the building height in order to 
better screen it from the view of Kimball 
Junction. 
 
COMPLIES 
Designing with Adjacent Uses 
The MPD site plan shall take 
adjacent land uses into 
consideration. Development 
along the project perimeter shall 
adequately mitigate any potential 
impacts. 
The proposed amendments relocate some 
of the existing “parcels” or building areas to 
be largely clustered at the bottom of the 
site, which should result in a reduced visual 
impact to adjacent uses.  
COMPLIES 
Building Location 
Buildings shall be located to 
avoid Critical Lands and be 
oriented to encourage solar 
design principles. 
The proposed amendments relocate some 
of the existing “parcels” or building areas to 
be largely clustered at the bottom of the 
site to avoid critical lands. 
COMPLIES 
66
 
Access 
Access to be provided from a 
state highway or county road.  
There are currently no proposed changes to 
Access. The primary access will still be via 
Olympic Parkway. The access via Bear 
Hollow Drive was included in the original 
DA and will remain a secondary access. 
COMPLIES 
Trails 
Existing trails should be 
incorporated into the project. 
Trails easements for existing trails 
may be required. Construction of 
new trails may be required.  
Per Exhibit H, “Contributions for 
community parks and trails shall be made 
according to the Snyderville Basin 
Recreation and Trails Master Plan.” Staff 
has included Condition of Approval #4b to 
ensure that any new parks and trails are 
consistent with the Snyderville Basin 
Recreation and Trails Master Plan. 
COMPLIES, as 
conditioned 
Connectivity 
All MPDs shall provide a means of 
direct, and safe pedestrian and 
bicycle linkages within the project 
as well as connections to 
adjacent sidewalks, bike paths, 
etc. 
The proposed amendments involve 
clustering a majority of the proposed 
development at the bottom of the site in 
order to create better pedestrian and 
bicycle connections. 
COMPLIES 
Snow Removal 
Uncovered parking lots shall 
provide snow storage equal to 
10% of the uncovered parking lot 
surface. 
 
At this time there are no proposed changes 
to existing uncovered parking lots. Staff has 
included Condition of Approval #4c to 
reiterate that any future additional 
uncovered parking lots shall be compliant 
with 10-4-9 and provide snow storage 
equal to 10% of the uncovered parking lot 
surface. 
COMPLIES, as 
conditioned 
Waste Disposal/Recycling 
Garbage and recycling container 
locations shall be shown on the 
site plan and are required to be in 
a fully enclosed structure. 
At this time there are no proposed changes 
to existing waste disposal/recycling. Staff 
has included Condition of Approval #4d to 
reiterate that any future waste 
disposal/recycling must be within a fully 
enclosed structure. 
 
COMPLIES, as 
conditioned 
Service and Delivery Access 
Service and delivery areas must 
be shown on the site plan and 
kept separate from pedestrian 
areas. 
At this time, there are no proposed 
changes to existing service and delivery 
access. Staff has included Condition of 
Approval #4e to reiterate that any future 
additional service and delivery areas must 
be kept separate from pedestrian areas. 
COMPLIES, as 
conditioned 
Utilities 
Existing and proposed utilities will 
be adequate to support the 
proposed project at normal 
service levels. 
 
Staff has included Condition of Approval 
#4f to reiterate that sufficient utilities be 
provided for each future development at 
the time of application. 
COMPLIES, as 
conditioned 
67
 
Transportation 
MPDs shall include 
transportation amenities 
including drop off areas, bike 
racks, bikes lanes, etc. 
 
Staff has included Condition of Approval 
#4g to require that the Applicant meet with 
the Summit County Transportation 
Department to review the Traffic Memo 
prior to County Council.  
COMPLIES, as 
conditioned 
Employee/Affordable Housing  
All MPD applications shall include 
a housing mitigation plan as 
required by Chapter 5 of the 
Code. 
The proposed amendments will affect the 
previously calculated Affordable Housing 
obligations. Staff has included Condition of 
Approval #4h to ensure an amendment to 
the Housing Agreement (Entry Number 
01118683) be agreed upon and recorded. 
COMPLIES, as 
conditioned 
Open Space/Public Spaces 
All MPDs shall provide at least the 
minimum zone-required open 
space.  
The proposed amendments do not 
decrease the Open Space below the 
minimum zone-required open space. 
COMPLIES 
Off-Street Parking  
Unless modified pursuant to 
Development Code 10-2 or an 
individual zone district, all MPDs 
shall meet the parking 
requirements set forth in Section 
10-4-9. 
There are no proposed changes to Off-
Street Parking at this time. Staff has 
included Condition of Approval #4i to 
ensure that sufficient Off-Street Parking is 
provided for any future additional 
development on the site at the time of 
application for such development. 
COMPLIES, as 
conditioned 
 
Recommendation 
Staff recommends that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission review the proposed 
amendments, discuss the items outlined in the staff report. If the Snyderville Basin Planning 
Commission finds that the provided information is sufficient to forward a recommendation to 
Summit County Council, Staff has included the following draft findings of fact, conclusions of 
law, and conditions of approval. 
 
Draft Findings of Fact: 
1. The following Parcels are subject to the Utah Olympic Park Specially Planned Area 
Development Agreement. 
a. PP-63-A (254.40 acres), PP-62-3-UAF (2.00 acres), KJS-6-1AM (3.00 acres), PP-62-
KJS (5.20 acres), PP-62-4 (3.00 acres), and PP-62-KJS (11.31 acres) 
2. Most of the existing development on the site was done prior to the 2002 Olympic 
Games and largely approved through the State.  
3. The Utah Olympic Park (UOP) Specially Planned Area (SPA) designation and rezone was 
approved by the Council in 2013 (Ordinance 820). 
4. The Development Agreement states that “any amendment to the DA that alters or 
modifies the Term of the Development Agreement, permitted uses, addition or removal 
of any lands, increased density or intensity of use, deletion of any major public amenity 
described herein, or provisions for reservation and dedication of land, including open 
space dedications, shall be deemed a Substantial Amendment and shall require a 
68
 
noticed public hearing and decision by the County Council pursuant to the Equal 
Dignities Rule prior to the execution of such an amendment.”  
5. There have been several approved amendments to the DA since its original approval.  
6. In June 2025, the Summit County Planning Department received a Development 
Agreement Amendment application.  
7. The applicant, Colin Hilton, on behalf of Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation, requests 
several amendments to the Utah Olympic Park Specially Planned Area Development 
Agreement (DA). 
8. The five primary changes proposed include: 
a. Replacing the Final Site Plan with a Master Conceptual Development Plan (MCDP) 
that shows all existing buildings in their as -built locations and planned areas of 
future development. This includes r earranging the parcels shown on the original 
Final Site Plan.  
b. Modifying the Land Use & Zoning Chart 1 to adjust the maximum building height, 
maximum gross floor area, and principal uses for several parcels.  
c. Modifying the Land Use & Zoning Chart 2 to move three uses (Hotel, Inn; Ski Lift, 
New; and Ski Run, New) from Conditional to Low Impact. 
d. Modifying the way that Affordable Athlete and Workforce Housing Units are 
calculated. 
e. Requesting the County Council designate the UOP as a “Major Sporting Event 
Venue,” pursuant to SB333, 2025 General Legislative Session. 
9. The originally approved DA included a Land Use & Zoning Chart 1 that outlined the 
maximum building height, maximum gross building area, and principal uses for each 
parcel identified on the Final Site Plan. The total combined Maximum Gross Building 
Area was listed as 295,515 square feet. 
10. According to the new proposed Land Use and Zoning Chart 1, the total potential floor area 
for the site would be approximately 568,832 square feet. 
11. On August 26, 2025, the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission (SBPC) held a work 
session to discuss the proposed amendments.   
12. On October 14, 2025, the SBPC reviewed the proposed amendments with the applicant, 
opened a public hearing, and ultimately requested that the item be continued to 
November 25th, 2025. 
13. On November 25, 2025, the SBPC reviewed the additional information, re-opened the 
public hearing, closed the public hearing, and ultimately requested that the discussion 
be continued to a date uncertain.  
 
Draft Conclusions of Law: 
1. As conditioned, the proposed amendments are compliant with Development Code 10-
2-12 (Development within a Town Center of Resort Center Zone District). 
2. As conditioned, the proposed amendments are compliant with Development Code 10-
2-18 (Master Planned Developments), including the following conclusions, as required 
by Development Code 10-2-18(F). 
69
 
a. The MPD has been designed to fit well into the natural terrain, minimize 
excessive site grading and protect, preserve, and enhance the level of quality of 
the surrounding area.  
b. The MPD makes suitable provisions for the protection, preservation, and 
enhancement of watercourses, drainage areas, wooded areas, rough terrain and 
similar natural features and areas.  
c. The MPD takes adjacent land uses into consideration and mitigates potential 
impacts, including, but not limited to flooding, erosion, subsidence, sloping of 
the soil or other dangers and nuisances, through careful planning. 
d. The MPD has direct vehicular access from a County road, meeting all 
requirements of the County Engineer and Park City Fire District. 
e. The MPD has a secondary point of access/emergency access satisfactory to the 
Summit County Engineer and Park City Fire District. 
f. All roads/streets within the MPD follow the natural contours of the site 
wherever possible to minimize the amount of grading. 
g. Proposed utility and public services are adequate to support the proposed MPD 
at normal service levels and have been designed in a manner to avoid adverse 
impacts on adjacent land uses, public services, and utility resources. 
h. The proposed structures within the MPD are located on the most developable 
and least environmentally sensitive portions of the site. The open areas within 
the MPD are designed so that existing significant vegetation can be maintained 
to the greatest degree possible. 
i. The MPD includes adequate internal vehicular and pedestrian circulation. 
j. The Buildings within the Development provide good quality internal and external 
environments for their users, promoting health and welfare. 
k. The proposed project integrates existing and incorporates new natural features 
into a multifunctional network that supports quality of place, biodiversity, and 
water management. 
l. The MPD, as conditioned, complies with the requirements of Chapter 4 of the 
Code. 
m. The MPD, as conditioned, is consistent with the General Plan. 
n. The MPD has been noticed and a public hearing held in accordance with the 
Code.  
o. The use is not detrimental to the public health, safety, and welfare. 
p. The use is appropriately located with respect to public facilities. 
q. The use is compatible with the existing neighborhood character and with the 
character and purpose provision of the applicable zoning district and will not 
adversely affect surrounding land uses.  
3. As conditioned, the proposed amendments are compliant with Development Code 10-
3-11 (Specially Planned Area Review for Residential and Commercial Densities in the TC 
and RC Zone Districts). 
4. As conditioned, the proposed amendments are compliant with Development Code 10-
3-19 (Development Agreements). 
70
 
5. As conditioned, the proposed amendments are compliant with Development Code 
Chapter 10-4 (Standards for Approval of Development Permits). 
 
Draft Conditions of Approval: 
1. All necessary land use application approvals must be obtained prior to a Building Permit 
submittal. 
2. All service provider requirements shall be met. 
3. All Mail Delivery requirements shall be met per the Park City Post Master. 
4. All other criteria and conditions contained in this Staff Report shall be included in the 
Development Agreement. This includes but is not limited to: 
a. Where there is a potential impact to a designated wildlife area, the Applicant shall 
work with Department of Wildlife Resources (DWR) to enact best mitigation 
practices. 
b. Any new parks or trails shall be consistent with the Snyderville Basin Recreation 
and Trails Master Plan. 
c. Any future uncovered parking lots shall be compliant with 10 -4-9 and provide 
snow storage equal too 10% of the uncovered parking lot surface. 
d. Any future waste disposal/recycling must be within a fully enclosed structure. 
e. Any future additional service and delivery areas must be kept separate from 
pedestrian areas. 
f. Sufficient utilities for any future development shall be provided at the time of 
application. 
g. The Applicant shall coordinate with the Summit County  Transportation 
Department to review the Traffic Memo prior to County Council. 
h. An amendment to the Housing Agreement (Entry Number 01118683) be agreed 
upon and recorded. 
i. Sufficient Off -Street Parking shall be  provided for any future additional 
development on the site at the time of application for such development. 
5. The final Development Agreement documents shall be in a form that is acceptable to 
the County Attorney’s Office and the County Recorder’s Office and shall contain the 
following:  
a. A legal description of the land; 
b. All relevant zoning and Development Code parameters, including all findings, 
conclusions, and conditions of approval, specifying any exceptions outlining 
more or less restrictive Height or Setbacks; 
c. An express reservation of the future legislative powers and zoning authority of 
the County; 
d. A copy of the approved Site plan, architectural plans, Landscaping plans, Grading 
plan, trails and Open Space plans, and other plans, which are part of the 
approval; 
e. A description of all Developer exactions or agreed upon public dedications; 
f. The Developers agreement to pay all specified impact fees; 
g. The form of ownership anticipated for the project; 
h. A specific project phasing plan.   
71
 
Attachments 
Exhibit 1: Proposed Master Conceptual Site Plan 
Exhibit 2: Draft of Redlined Proposed DA 4th Amended 
Exhibit 2a: Proposed Land Use and Zoning Chart 
Exhibit 3: Revised Trip Generation Memo 
Exhibit 4: Proposed Site Plan with Wildlife Area & Previous Parcel Overlay 
Exhibit 5: DWR Letter 
Exhibit 5a: DWR Wildlife Habitat Analysis Tool Report 
 Exhibit 6: Trails 
 Exhibit 7: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation: A Living Legacy (Kem C. Gardner Policy 
       Institute – University of Utah) 
 Exhibit 8: Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute U of U Technical Memo 
72
73
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT 
FOR THE UTAH OLYMPICNWIC PARK SPECIALLY PLANNED AREA 
KIMBALL JUNCTION, SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH 
THIS DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT is entered into as of this ____day of 
______, 20132025, between the Utah Athletic Foundation, dba Utah Olympic Legacy 
Foundation (“UOLF”) , a Utah non-profit corporation ("Developer") and Summit County, 
a political subdivision of the State of Utah, by and through its County Council (the 
"County"), for the Utah Olympic Park Specially Planned Area ("Olympic Park SPA"). The 
County and Developer are individually referred to herein as a "Party" and jointly referred 
to herein as the "Parties." 
Article 1 
DEFINITIONS 
*Any term not defined herein shall default to the definition within the Snyderville 
Basin Development Code 
1.1 Affordable Athlete and Workforce Housing Unit (“AAWHU”) means an 
AWHU that is dedicated to fulfilling affordable housing requirements as 
delineated in Exhibit H. 
 
1.2 Approved Uses means the approved uses which are shown on the Land Use 
and Zoning Charts, which are included in the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of 
Exhibits as Exhibit C and may or may not be shown on the Conceptual Master 
Plan included as Exhibit B. 
 
1.11.3 Architectural Design Guidelines means the Architectural Design Guidelines for 
the Project, a copy of which is included in the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of 
Exhibits as Exhibit D. 
 
1.4 Athlete and Workforce Housing Unit (“AWHU”) means a housing 
unit as designated by Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation for the use of 
Athletes and Workforce training or working at the Utah Olympic Park. 
AWHUs can leased on a long-term or short-term basis with priority 
given to Workforce, Athletes, Teams, Partner Organizations and 
Community Members in priority order. For the purposes of this 
Agreement AWHU are classified as Dwelling Units.  
 
1.5 Athlete Dormitory Dwelling Unit means Athlete and Workforce 
Housing Unit (AWHU). 
 
74
1.21.6 Athlete Support Uses  means means AWHU, AAWHU 
and may include any uses substantially related to the conduct of 
operating a winter sports training facility, winter sports training, 
hosting of competitions and athletic events and that comply with all 
other covenants and restrictions applicable to the Utah Olympic Park. 
Such areas shall not be included in the calculation of Estimated 
"Affordable" Gross Developed Floor Area or Estimated "Attainable" 
Gross Developed Floor  
 
1.31.7 Building Permit means a permit issued pursuant to the requirements of the 
Snyderville Basin Development Code, International Building Code and related 
building codes as applicable in the Snyderville Basin Planning District, including 
permits for grading, footings and foundations and construction of other 
improvements. 
 
1.8 Code means the Snyderville Basin Development Code. 
1.41.9 Commercial Support Uses mean uses that are secondary, subordinate, and 
incidental to the Principal Use and exist only to serve, enhance, or enable the 
Principal Use.  Support uses are not intended to function as independent, 
standalone uses, but to support the associated principal uses. Support Uses 
shall be consistent with the Principal Use and shall be proportionate in size and 
scope. Support Uses include but are not limited to : the portions of a building that 
are necessary for the safe, functional, and mechanical operation of the building, 
parking facilities, staff facilities, storage and back of house areas, maintenance 
areas, conference and meeting spaces, and amenities consistent with the 
principal use to improve guest experience. Support Uses shall be categorized as 
Common Areas. Support uses shall not be included in the calculation of 
Maximum Floor Area. 
 
1.51.10 Comprehensive Sign Plan means the Comprehensive Sign Plan for the 
Project which is included in the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits as 
Exhibit G. 
1.61.11 County means Summit County, a political subdivision of the State of Utah, 
by and through its County Council. 
1.71.12 Developer means the Utah Athletic Foundation, a Utah non-profit 
corporation, its affiliate entities, and its assignees or transferees. The Utah 
Athletic Foundation operates under the d.b.a. Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation 
operating facilities and programs at the Utah Olympic Park in Park City, Utah and 
the Utah Olympic Oval in Kearns, Utah, and Soldier Hollow in Wasatch County, 
Utah. 
1.81.13 Development Agreement means this Development Agreement and any 
amendments. 
75
1.91.14 Director means the Summit County Community Development Director. 
1.101.15 Final Site Plans Master Conceptual Site Plan means the Final Ssite 
Pplans which are included in the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits as 
Exhibit B, establishing anticipated development layout, architectural, 
landscaping, lighting, and other development details for the Project, as such 
Final Site Plans are amended. 
1.16 General Plan means the Snyderville Basin General Plan of the County. 
1.17 Gross Developed Floor Area means the developed square footage allowable 
under the Maximum Building Height as shown in Exhibit C.  
1.18 Hotel, Inn means amenities may include but are not limited to conference areas, 
retail support, food and beverage, locker rooms, storage, and other uses 
customarily associated with hotels and recreational lodging. Hotel/Lodging units 
may be professionally or independently branded, managed, or operated.  
  
 
1.18.1 Hotel Room means a unit consisting of one room that may contain 
a kitchen, intended for temporary living and sleeping purposes and 
including a separate, exclusive bathroom.  
  
1.111.18.2 Hotel Suite means a unit consisting of more than one room 
that may contain a kitchen, intended for temporary living and 
sleeping purposes and including at least one separate, exclusive 
bathroom. 
1.121.19 Land Use Laws means zoning, subdivision, development, growth 
management, platting, environmental, open space, transportation and other land 
use plans, policies, ordinances and regulations existing and in force for the 
County as of the date of this Development Agreement, and as may be amended 
from time to time. 
1.131.20 Landscaping Plan means the Landscaping Plan based on the Master 
Conceptual Site Plan, as amended, for the Project which is included in the 
Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits as Exhibit E.  
1.141.21 Lighting Plan means the Lighting Plan for the Project based on the 
Master Conceptual Site Plan, as amended, which is included in Exhibit F of the 
Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits. 
1.22 Low Impact Development means when specifically designated as a low impact 
activity in the Development Agreement or in the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of 
Exhibits, such uses shall be subject to a Low Impact Permit review and approval 
by the Director in accordance with the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits 
and all applicable provisions of the Snyderville Basin Development Code. 
76
1.23 Max Gross Building Area means the first floor horizontal area, measured 
in square feet, of a building as measured from the exterior faces of the 
enclosing walls, including all exterior columns and structural supports as 
shown in Exhibit C.  
 
1.24 Multi-family Dwelling Unit means a structure containing two or more 
individual dwelling units sharing common horizontal floors/ceilings 
that are intended for separate households, where each unit provides 
independent facilities for one or more persons, including provisions 
for sleeping, cooking, and sanitation. This term expressly includes, 
but is not limited to: 
1.14.11.24.1 Condominium Units: Individually owned 
residential units within a multi-family structure or 
complex governed by a condominium association or 
similar common interest community organization, where 
ownership includes a fractional interest in common 
amenities included in the building. 
1.151.25 Olympic Park means the Utah Winter Sports Park, Summit County, Utah. 
1.161.26 Olympic Park SPA means the zone district adopted and approved on 
March 14, 2012 by Ordinance No. 821; and on November 6, 2013, by Ordinance 
No. 819; and any additional amendments. 
1.171.27 Olympic Park SPA Plan means a comprehensive plan, set forth in this 
Development Agreement and SPA Plan Book of Exhibits and amendments 
hereto, establishing the Approved Uses and Final Site Plans and providing 
processes for obtaining Building Permits and other approvals for implementing 
the Olympic Park SPA. 
1.28 Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits means that portion of the Olympic 
Park SPA Plan which contains the Final Site Plans, Landscaping Plan, Lighting 
Plan, Land Use and Zoning Charts and all other guidelines and standards that 
shall be used to guide all development in the Olympic Park SPA and all other 
specific development parameters and regulations, including developer 
obligations, commitments, and contributions for carrying out the development in 
accordance with the Olympic Park SPA Plan. 
1.181.29 Olympic Park Operational Support Area means means service and 
recreational uses that are customarily incidental and directly related to the 
operation, maintenance, and visitor experience of a ski resort or winter sports 
training facility. Such uses may include, but are not limited to, ski schools, ski 
rental and repair shops, ticketing offices, equipment storage and maintenance 
facilities, parking, shuttle and transit services, guest services, childcare facilities, 
sports medicine facilities, and UOLF and related parties administrative offices. 
Olympic Park Support Uses shall be designed and operated primarily to serve 
77
Olympic Park program participants, employees, and residents, and are 
distinguished from general commercial uses that are intended to serve the 
broader community or regional market. Such areas shall not be included in the 
calculation of  Proposed "Olympic Park Operational Support Area" Gross 
Developed Floor Area.  
1.191.30 Phase means one of the proposed individual Phases as shown on the 
Final Site Plans. 
1.201.31 Phases means, collectively, the individual proposed Phases as shown on 
the Final Site Plans. 
1.32 Planning Commission means the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission. 
1.211.33  
1.221.34 Project means the development of approximately 393 acres of land and 
appurtenant real property rights located in Summit County, Utah, the legal 
description of such land is attached hereto as Exhibit A of the Olympic Park SPA 
Plan Book of Exhibits, pursuant to the Olympic Park SPA Plan and this 
Development Agreement and any of its Exhibits hereto. 
1.35 Public Benefits means public infrastructure or public service facilities at the 
Project benefitting the public as further set forth and described in Article 7 below 
and in Exhibit H of the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits. 
1.36 Ridgeline Structures means structures located on ridgelines as viewed from 
Interstate 80, SR-224, SR-248, and U.S.-40. Development of Ridgeline 
Structures shall be prohibited except as outlined for Athlete Support uses in 
existing agreements with adjacent property owners, previous approved site 
plans, and resort lifts and runs.  
1.37 Ski Lifts, New means a mechanical device to transport passengers and cargo 
by means of chairs or enclosed compartments attached to a cable or to rails, 
including each of the devices described in Section 72-11-102 of the Utah Code 
Annotated, as amended. Includes ski tows and ski lifts. 
1.38 Ski Lifts, Modification means a minor modification of a lawfully created Ski Lift 
which is less than a fifteen percent (15%) increase of the existing total acreage of 
disturbed area for said Ski Lift but no greater than five (5) acres. 
1.39 Ski Run, New means a designated slope, trail, or course on a mountain or hill 
that is intended, prepared and maintained for snow sports. 
1.23 Ski Run, Modification means a minor modification of a lawfully created Ski Run 
which is less than a fifteen percent (15%) increase of the existing total acreage of 
said Ski Run but no greater than five (5) acres.  
78
 
Article 2 
RECITALS 
2.1 The recitals in the remainder of this Article 2, together with the findings set forth 
in Article 3, are an integral part of this Development Agreement and are a part of 
the consideration for each Party's entry into this Development Agreement. 
2.2 Developer is the record owner of the Project or has contractual rights to acquire 
any such portions thereof as are not owned of record by Developer. Developer, 
County and the Snyderville Basin Special Recreation District have entered into 
that certain Exchange Agreement, dated November 6,2013, attached hereto as 
Exhibit J, whereby various parcels of property have been exchanged between 
the entities. Such exchanges have enabled Developer to relocate portions of the 
proposed residential uses at the Project in order to, among other benefits, further 
minimize visibility to and from Kimball Junction. It is further agreed that such 
exchange will not alter the overall density rights for the Project. 
2.3 This Development Agreement serves to implement the Olympic Park SPA and 
Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits which are incorporated by reference 
herein. 
2.4 This Development Agreement and the Olympic Park SPA Plan resolve all issues 
associated with the development and construction of the Project except, as to the 
performance of any additional obligations which shall be specified in this 
Development Agreement. 
2.5 The County has adopted through Ordinance No. 819 an amendment to the 
General Plan, the Code and the Zoning Map classifying the Project as a Resort 
Center (RC) zone and setting forth therein such land use classifications and 
development locations as are permitted under thethis Development Agreement. 
2.6 Developer has proposed specific plans and plats with respect to the Project in 
response to direction and  guidance from the Director and the Planning 
Commission. 
2.7 The County therefore desires to establish the Olympic Park SPA under the SPA 
provisions of the Code and the General Plan for the purpose of implementing 
development standards and processes that are consistent therewith. 
2.8 The Development Agreement, which implements the Olympic Park SPA, provides 
detailed data regarding the Final Site Plans for the Project. The County and 
Developer agree that each shall comply with the standards and procedures 
contemplated by the Olympic Park SPA, this Development Agreement and its 
79
accompanying Exhibits, the Code, and the General Plan with respect to obtaining 
future Building Permits for any Phases or new construction within the Project. 
2.9 Developer and the County desire to clarify certain standards and procedures that 
will be applied to approvals of Building Permits for the Phases of the 
development and construction and to address requirements for certain Public 
Benefits. 
2.10 The County also desires to receive certain Public Benefits, and Developer is 
willing to provide these Public Benefits in consideration of the agreement of the 
County for increased intensity of uses in the Olympic Park SPA pursuant to the 
terms of this Development Agreement. 
2.11 The County, acting pursuant to its authority under Utah Code Annotated, Section 
17-27a-101 et seq., the Code and the General Plan, has made certain 
determinations with respect to the Olympic Park SPA, and, in the exercise of its 
legislative discretion, has elected to approve the uses, density, and general 
configuration of the Project and its future development pursuant to the Olympic 
Park SPA, resulting in  the negotiation, consideration and approval of this 
Development Agreement, after all necessary public hearings. 
Article 3 
FINDINGS 
The County Council of the County, acting in its legislative capacity, has made the 
following determinations with respect to the Olympic Park SPA Plan set forth in this 
Article 3, including all findings of fact and conclusions of law as are necessary to make 
each of such determinations: 
3.1 Following a lawfully advertised public hearing, Developer received a positive 
recommendation for approval of the Project through aamendments to this 
Development Agreement by action of the Planning Commission taken on 
December 18, 2012_____________, 2025. 
3.2 The County Council held a lawfully advertised public hearing on ____________, 
2025November 6, 2013, and during a lawfully advertised public meeting on that 
same date, approved this Amended Development Agreement under the 
processes and procedures set forth in the Code and General Plan. 
3.3 The terms and conditions of approval are incorporated fully into this 
Development Agreement. In making such approval, the County Council made 
such findings of fact and conclusions Of law as are required as a condition to the 
approvals, as reflected in the staff recommendation, as reflected in the minutes 
of the above referenced public meetings, and as reflected by the other 
enumerated findings herein. 
80
3.4 The Olympic Park SPA provides substantial, tangible benefits to the general 
public of the Snyderville Basin that significantly outweigh those that would be 
derived if the development occurred under the provisions of the existing zone. 
The provisions of those benefits and amenities have been taken into 
consideration by Summit County in granting increased residential and 
commercial densities on the Project. 
3.5 The Olympic Park SPA Plan, as reflected in and conditioned by the terms and 
conditions of the Development Agreement and the amendments thereto, is in 
conformity and compliance with the General Plan, any existing capital 
improvement programs, the provisions of the Code (including concurrency and 
infrastructure requirements), and all other development requirements of the 
County. 
3.6 The Olympic Park SPA Plan contains outstanding features which advance the 
policies, goals and objectives of the General Plan beyond mere conformity, 
including the following: (i) agreements with respect to design controls and 
limitations to minimize the visual impact of the Project; (ii) dedication and 
preservation of view shed and environmental features; (iii) taking advantage of 
natural depressions in topography to minimize the visual prominence and 
potential for ridge lining; (iv) appropriate location of density and uses; (v) the 
preservation of critical open space areas; (vi) the promotion of recreation uses 
and resort related Public Benefits that are appropriate to support the community 
and recreational nature of the area; (vii) contribution to community trails and 
parks including working with the Snyderville Basin Special Recreation District to 
identify possible trail linkages and trail heads; (viii) exceeding open space 
requirements for the Project; and (ix) using efforts to minimize visibility of the 
residential housing to and from Kimball Junction; (x) incent private  development 
partners  to avoid depleting  the endowment  established  to fund the operation 
of the venues operated by the Developer . 
3.7 There are unique circumstances that justify the use of a SPA, including 
preserving the long- term viability of the Olympic Park. County and Developer 
acknowledge that the existing facilities were built by the State of Utah without 
any zoning or building approvals. In order to preserve the long- term viability of 
the Olympic Park, additional funding is needed to avoid depleting the 
endowment established to fund the operation of the Olympic Park. Expanded 
commercial development within the Olympic Park SPA is one way to provide this 
funding. 
3.8 Developer has committed to comply with all Affordable Housing Requirements  
consistent with other resort areas in Summit County and as delineated in Exhibit 
H herein.of Chapter 5 of the Code. County acknowledges and agrees that to the 
extent that Developer exceeds the minimum unit equivalent Affordable Housing 
Requirements under Exhibit Hthe Code, Developer may use such additional 
housing in any manner it sees fit consistent with the terms of this Agreement 
including or the existing Code provisions for residential uses or Hotel, 
81
Inn/Lodging, including, but not limited to, charging a higher rental rate and 
utilizing such housing as nightly rentals for visiting athletes, Olympic Park 
guests, or officials. 
3.9 Subject to the terms of this Development Agreement, Developer has committed 
to comply with all appropriate concurrency and infrastructure requirements of the 
Code, and all appropriate criteria and standards described in the Development 
Agreement and the amendments thereto, including any applicable impact fees of 
the County and its Special Districts (subject to Articles 6.1 and 6.2 below). 
3.10 There exist adequate provisions for mitigation of all fiscal and service impacts on 
the general public. 
3.11 Any construction management impacts shall be addressed in the Construction 
Management and Mitigation Plan established for the Olympic Park SPA and 
approved by the County Engineer, as required in Article 4.6 hereof. 
3.12 The approval of the Olympic Park SPA Plan will not adversely affect the public 
health, safety and general welfare of the residents of Summit County, it being 
acknowledged that the proposed Project will substantially enhance and benefit 
the public health, safety and general welfare of the residents of Summit County. 
3.13 The Olympic Park SPA Plan meets or exceeds development quality and 
aesthetic objectives of the General Plan and the Code, is consistent with the 
goal of orderly growth in the Snyderville Basin, and minimizes construction 
impacts on public infrastructure within the Snyderville Basin. 
3.14 The proposed development reasonably assures life and property within the 
Snyderville Basin is protected from any adverse impact of its development, it 
being acknowledged that the proposed Project will substantially enhance and 
benefit life and property within the Snyderville Basin. 
3.15 Developer shall take reasonably appropriate measures to prevent harm to 
neighboring properties and lands from development, including nuisances. 
3.16 Exemption from Code. The County Council acting pursuant to its authority under 
Utah Code Annotated 17-27a-101 et seq., as well as its regulations and 
guidelines, in the exercise of its legislative discretion, has determined that the 
Olympic Park SPA is exempt from the application of the Code solely to the extent 
that such a finding may be a condition precedent to approval of this 
Development Agreement. Where there is a direct conflict between an express 
provision of this Development Agreement and the Code or General Plan or other 
Land Use Laws, this Development Agreement shall take precedence; otherwise, 
the Code, General Plan, or other Land Use Laws shall control. 
 
82
Article 4 
APPROVALS/PHASED DEVELOPMENT OF THE PROJECT 
4.1 Approval. The approval and execution of this Development Agreement by the 
County and Developer constitutes approval of the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book 
of Exhibits (listed below), as if fully set forth herein at length and shall be binding 
upon the Parties hereto. 
 
4.1.1 Project and Legal Description of the Project (Exhibit A) – Amended 2025 
4.1.2 Final Site Plans (Exhibit B) – Amended 2025 
4.1.3 Land Use and Zoning Charts (Exhibit C) – Amended 2025 
4.1.4 Architectural Guidelines (Exhibit D) 
4.1.5 Landscaping Plan (Exhibit E) – consistent with amendments to 4.1.2 
4.1.6 Lighting Plan (Exhibit F) – consistent with amendments to 4.1.2 
4.1.7 Comprehensive Sign Plan (Exhibit G) – consistent with amendments to 
4.1.2 
4.1.8 Community Benefits (Exhibit H) – Amended 2025 
4.1.9 Future Olympic Transportation and Security Staging Areas (Exhibit I) 
4.1.10 Exchange Agreement (Exhibit J) 
4.1.11 Supplementary SPA Submittal Materials (Exhibit K) 
4.2 Project Phasing. The Project may be constructed in Phases by Developer as 
shown in Exhibit B of the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits 
4.3 Parking. Parking of vehicles on the Property shall be in accordance with the 
Final Site Plans. The parking and display of UAF Sponsor vehicles shall be 
limited to the areas on the Property designated in the foregoing sentence and as 
identified in Exhibit B of the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits. 
4.4 Building Permit Required. Subject to Article 6. l, prior to the commencement of 
each structure, a Building Permit shall be required from the County in 
accordance with all applicable requirements of the Code, the International 
Building Code, and other related codes applicable to the Snyderville Basin 
Planning District. 
4.5 Compliance of Building Permits with Development Agreement. A Building Permit 
for each structure shall comply with the conditions specified in this Development 
Agreement. 
4.6 Construction Mitigation and Management Plan Required. A Building Permit will 
not be issued for any facility or structure within the Olympic Park SPA until an 
adequate Construction Management and Mitigation Plan has been established 
for the Olympic Park SPA and approved by the County Engineer, who may 
require changes to address any unforeseen impacts that occur during 
construction. The plan shall address the following matters specifically, together 
with any other related matters identified by the Summit County Community 
83
Development Director and Developer. A separate plan may be established for 
each Phase.  
4.6.1 Revegetation/erosion protection/runoff control 
4.6.2 Site grading 
4.6.3 Dust and debris control 
4.6.4 Recycling construction material waste 
4.6.5 Damage to public roadways as a result of construction 
4.6.6 Traffic control/construction management control 
4.6.7 Hours of construction 
4.6.8 Staging and screening of construction materials and equipment 
4.6.9 Construction lighting, construction security, and fire protection 
4.6.10 Solid Waste Disposal for construction wastes 
4.6.11 Parking 
4.7 Compliance with Concurrency Management Standards Required. In addition to 
compliance with the criteria required under the Code, the following service 
provider and concurrency information shall also be required and reviewed along 
with any Building Permit. Upon receiving such information, the Director shall 
prepare a report(s) identifying issues and concerns related to the proposal. The 
following additional information toshall be provided is as follows: 
4.7.1 Water Service. 
4.7.1.1 A Feasibility letter for the proposed water supply issued by the 
State Division of Drinking Water. 
4.7.1.2 Evidence of coordination with the public or private water service 
provider, including an  agreement for service and an indication of 
the service area of the proposed water supplier, commitment 
service letter or other binding arrangement for the provision of 
water services. 
4.7.1.3 Evidence that water rights have been obtained including an 
application for appropriation or change application endorsed by 
the State Engineer pursuant to Section 73-3-10 of the Utah Code, 
and a certificate of appropriation or certificate of change issued in 
accordance with Section 73-3-16 of the Utah Code. The County 
84
shall not accept an application or certificate that has lapsed, 
expired or been revoked by the State Engineer. 
4.7.1.4 A certificate of convenience and necessity or an exemption 
therefrom, issued by the State Public Service Commission, for 
the proposed water supplier. 
4.7.2 Fire Protection. 
4.7.2.1 A letter from the Park City Fire Special Service District (PCFD)  
indicating that fire hydrants, water lines sizes, water storage for 
fire protection, and minimum flow for fire protection are adequate. 
These shall be determined using the standards of the Insurance 
Services Office which are known as the Fire System Grading 
Standards. In no case shall minimum fire flow be less than 1,000 
gallons per minute for a period of two (2) hours. 
4.7.2.2 Written evidence to the County and the Park City Fire Special 
Service District (PCFD) verifying that an authorized water 
company shall be responsible for the perpetual and continual 
maintenance of all fire protection appurtenances, including 
annual flagging of all hydrants prior to November 1st of each year. 
4.7.3 Recreation. A letter from the Snyderville Basin Special Recreation District 
(Recreation District) indicating that all requirements of the Recreation 
District and the terms of this Development Agreement have been 
satisfied. 
4.8 Comprehensive Sign Plan Required. Although not currently permitted under the 
Development Code, the County Council, in their legislative capacity hereby finds: 
l ) that there exists currently, a comprehensive sign plan for the Project; and 2) 
that the existing sign regulations do not and cannot meet the needs of the 
Project and that given the nature of the Project and its uses, the Comprehensive 
Sign Plan which is included in the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits as 
Exhibit G, is appropriate for the Project. The Comprehensive Sign Plan 
addresses all design, size, location, lighting, and other related standards for all 
commercial business identification signs, residential development identification 
signs, directional signs, and any other signs that may be contemplated by the 
Developer. 
4.9 Lighting Plan Required. The Lighting Plan which is included in the Olympic Park 
SPA Plan Book of Exhibits as Exhibit F, is appropriate for the Project. The 
adopted Lighting Plan includes requirements that to the maximum extent 
possible, there be no bleeding or spillover from the lighting and that as 
technology and energy efficiency improves, use of those technologies areis 
encouraged but not required so long as the intent to limit the impacts of lighting 
are met. 
85
4.10 Land Use and Zoning Charts. There is hereby adopted Land Use and Zoning 
Charts which sets forth the uses, densities and processes by which development 
at the Project shall occur. The Land Use and Zoning Charts are included in the 
Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of Exhibits as Exhibit C. 
4.11 Design Review Committee. There is hereby established a Design Review 
Committee ("DRC") which shall be made up of five (5) members. The 
membership shall include two (2) members of the Snyderville Basin Planning 
Commission and one (1) planner from the Summit County Community 
Development Department. The remaining membership shall be appointed by the 
Developer. 
4.11.1 Prior to the submission of any development application for the Project, the 
DRC shall meet, review and confirm compliance with the Olympic Park 
SPA and the Architectural Guidelines. In addition to its compliance review, 
the DRC may make additional comments or recommendations to 
Developer with respect to the development application and Developer 
shall reasonably consider any such comments or recommendations and 
shall use reasonable efforts to address such comments or 
recommendations in the final development application for the Project filed 
with the County. 
4.11.2 Upon receiving notice from the Developer of any development application, 
the DRC shall meet and confer within sixty (60) days of that notice. 
Failure to meet within that time period shall be deemed an "approval" of 
the application which may then be filed with the County. 
4.12 Low Impact Permit Approval. Whenever in this Development Agreement a low 
impact activity or approval process is designated or required, the Developer shall 
submit for approval and review by the County all applicable information and 
documents in accordance with the provisions of Section 10-3-43.4 of the Code, 
as amended. With regard to this Development Agreement, the qualifications set 
forth in Section 10-3-43.4 of the Code shall be expanded to allow compliance 
with the terms and provisions of this Development Agreement. 
4.13 Conditional Use Permit Approval. Whenever in this Development Agreement a 
conditional use or approval process is designated or required, the Developer 
shall submit for approval and review by the County all applicable information and 
documents in accordance with the provisions of Section 10-3-53.5 of the Code, 
as amended. With regard to this Development Agreement, the qualifications set 
forth in Section 10-3-53.5 of the Code shall be expanded to allow compliance 
with the terms and provisions of this Development Agreement. 
4.14 Temporary Use Permit Approval. Whenever in this Development Agreement a 
temporary use or approval process is designated or required, Developer shall 
submit for approval and review by the County all applicable information and 
documents in accordance with the provisions of Section 10-3-33.3 of the Code, 
86
as amended. With regard to this Development Agreement, the qualifications set 
forth in Section 10-3-33.3 of the Code shall be expanded to allow compliance 
with the terms and provisions of this Development Agreement. 
4.15 Development Improvements Agreement Required. A Development 
Improvements Agreement ("DIA") shall be required. No building, grading, or 
other related development permit shall be issued for any project or structure 
within the Project until a Development Improvements Agreement in a form 
acceptable to Summit County has been accepted by the County. The Staff shall 
review the Developer's proposal for a Development Improvements Agreement 
and provide its recommendation to the County Engineer for approval. A separate 
Development Improvements Agreement may be established for each Phase of 
the development. Improvements which shall be guaranteed include: 
4.15.1 All utilities, including water and sewer service. 
4.15.2 All Public and Private roads, inclusive of all "Civil Improvements" 
associated with the roadway. 
4.15.3 All "Civil Improvements" associated with individual project Final Ssite 
Pplans. 
4.15.4 Temporary and permanent, structural and non-structural soil conservation 
measures. 
4.15.5 Bus Shelters. 
4.15.6 Temporary and permanent, structural and non-structural run off control 
measures. 
4.15.7 Required buffering, screening, and landscaping. 
4.15.8 All public trails shall be constructed, with respect to timing and design, as 
required by this Development Agreement. 
4.15.9 All private trails. 
4.15.10 The County shall have the option of using the guarantee for Site 
Restoration, should development not be completed within the required 
construction schedule or complete the project per the approved Final Site 
Plans. The Development Improvements Agreement, in athe form and 
amount of guarantee to be approved by the County Engineer, shall 
establish a security to complete improvements, warranties after 
completion, schedules for completing all improvements, and remedy 
provisions in the event of a default. It is understood by the Parties that 
Developer has previously installed most of the public improvements and 
that the security herein pertains in large part to site restoration and re-
vegetation. Said improvements shall be warranted by the Developer for a 
87
period of one full year of normal operation from the date of completion, as 
established by the County Engineer. The County shall retain 40% of the 
security for a period of 12 months from the date of completion of the 
improvements. 
4.16 Other Service Providers. Prior to the issuance of Building Permits, the Director 
shall secure input regarding the Project from all other affected agencies and 
service providers, including but not necessarily limited to the County Health 
Department and Rocky Mountain Power. 
 
Article 5 
VESTED RIGHTS 
5.1 Vested Rights/Approved Use, Density, and Configuration. Subject to the terms, 
conditions and requirements of this Development Agreement, Developer is 
hereby vested with respect to the Olympic Park SPA as to the uses, densities, 
design guidelines and methods, development standards, the Final Site Plans 
and other approval processes, as reflected in the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book 
of Exhibits and all other provisions of this Development Agreement and 
amendments hereto. Subject to the conditions and requirements of this 
Development Agreement, Developer shall have the vested right to construct the 
Project in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Development 
Agreement and amendments hereto. 
5.2 Reserved Legislative Powers/Future Changes of Laws and Plans/Compelling 
Countervailing Public Interest. Nothing in this Development Agreement shall limit 
the future exercise of the police power of  the County in enacting zoning, 
subdivision, development, growth management, platting, environmental, open 
space, transportation and other master plans, policies, ordinances and 
regulations after the date of the Development Agreement. Notwithstanding the 
retained power of the County to enact such legislation under the police power, 
such legislation shall only be applied to modify the vested rights described in 
Article 5.1, as well as other provisions of this Development Agreement, based 
upon policies, facts and circumstances meeting the compelling, countervailing 
public interest exception to the vested rights doctrine in the State of Utah. 
(Western Land Equities Inc v. City of Logan, 617 P . 2d 388 (Utah 1980), U.C.A. 
17-27a-508, or other successor case and statutory law). Any such proposed 
change affecting the vested rights of Developer and other provisions of this 
Development Agreement shall be of general application to all development 
activity in the Snyderville Basin; and, unless the County declares an emergency, 
Developer shall be entitled to prior written notice and an opportunity to be heard 
with respect to the proposed change and its applicability to the Olympic Park 
under the compelling, countervailing public policy exception to the vested rights 
doctrine. In the event that the County does not give prior written notice, 
88
Developer shall retain the' right to be heard before an open meeting of the 
County Council in the event Developer alleges that its rights under this 
Development Agreement have been adversely affected.  
5.3 Normal Operating Capacity / Special Event Permits. County acknowledges and 
agrees that there is existing operating capacity within the Olympic Park to 
accommodate up to 2,000 people at any one point and therefore the facility is 
recognized for having that approved normal operating capacity. 
5.3.1 Accordingly, the County Council in its legislative capacity hereby waives 
the requirement under the Code that Developer apply for and obtain a 
special event permit for events and activities it is hosting within the 
Olympic Park for capacities of 2,000 people and less. Developer shall use 
every reasonable effort to encourage trip reduction including: car pool, 
transit, HOV, and non-motorized access. 
5.3.2 Developer shall ensure that at least one first aid station staffed and 
equipped with the minimum equipment and staffing level of at least two 
(2) state-licensed or certified medical providers, such as an emergency 
medical technician, paramedic, nurse, physician's assistant or medical 
doctor are present to staff each first aid station over the duration of the 
event. 
5.3.2.1 The first aid station(s) shall be clearly marked, identifiable and 
strategically located to provide expedient medical care for those 
attending or participating in the events at the Olympic Park. 
5.3.2.2 The first aid station(s) shall be easily accessible by emergency 
vehicles. The Developer shall provide the Park City Fire Special 
Service District (PCFD) a map of the gathering site which 
includes the locations of first aid station(s), emergency vehicle 
ingress and egress routes, landing zones (if applicable) and 
rendezvous locations. 
5.3.2.3 Developer shall ensure that the staff person in charge of the first 
aid station(s) keeps accurate records of patients and treatment, 
and that the health officer is notified of all cases involving 
serious injury or communicable disease in accordance with 
R386-702 (Communicable Disease Rule) and R3 86-703 (Injury 
Reporting Rule). 
5.3.3 Temporary structures and/or facilities, such as tents, food vendor carts, 
etc., that are part of any such activities, shall be required to apply for and 
receive standard use permits as required by the County and the Park City 
Fire Special Service District.  
89
5.3.4 At the discretion of the County's Community Development Director, should 
the Olympic Park show repeated failures to satisfy local regulatory 
agencies (such as Health and Fire District), then the Community 
Development Director shall have the ability to require traditional special 
event permits of the Developer up until regular compliance has been met 
for any events under 2,000 people. 
5.3.5 Expected crowds greater than 2,000 people for any given event (i.e., an 
Olympic event) must comply with County regulations regarding the 
application for and the obtaining of a sSpecial eEvent pPermit for such 
event. 
5.4 Towers and Recreational Structures. Non-building structures at the Olympic Park 
SPA that are in excess of thirty-two (32) feet such as existing chairlift towers, 
adventure course towers and recreational towers and non-building structures of 
a similar type and nature shall be deemed support infrastructure and shall be 
deemed a conforming use. The Developer shall follow the permitting process as 
outlined in Exhibit C to obtain any appropriate permit from the County for future 
non-building structures. 
5.5 Interconnection. Developer supports and shall work in good faith to coordinate 
with the Master Developer of Canyons Resort and other parties involved, to 
make a physical transportation interconnect between Canyons Resort, Olympic 
Park, and Kimball Junction. Such an interconnect shall be reviewed through the 
Low Impact Permit approval process. 
Article 6 
FEES AND MITIGATIONS 
 
6.1 SPA Rezone Application. Development Agreement Application. Development 
Review. Engineering and Related Fees. Pursuant to the provisions of Resolution 
2010-13, Developer agrees to pay the sum of prior to final approval of the 
Development Agreement by the County Council. Except as expressly provided 
below in this Article 6, Developer shall receive no further credits or adjustments 
toward any other development review, platting, site planning, or similar standard 
engineering review fees or other fees generally applicable to development 
application or building permit review and approval. The County may charge such 
standard planning and engineering review fees, standard building permit review 
fees, and other fees as are generally applicable at the time of application, 
pursuant to the provisions of Resolution 2010-13, as amended, or other 
applicable statutes, ordinances, resolutions, or administrative guidelines. County 
acknowledges and agrees that, pursuant to the terms of the Exchange 
Agreement between County and Developer as more particularly described in 
Article 2.2 above, Developer is entitled to a credit against the above described 
development fees in the amount of Thirty-five Thousand Dollars ($35,000.00). 
90
6.2 Impact Fees: The Olympic Park SPA shall be subject to all impact fees which are 
currently imposed and are in effect as of the date of this Development 
Agreement. The fees shall be payable in accordance with the payment 
requirements of the particular impact fee ordinance and implementing resolution. 
Notwithstanding the agreement of Developer to subject the Olympic Park SPA to 
impact fees under the above-stated conditions, Developer does not waive 
Developer' s rights under any applicable law to challenge the reasonableness of 
the amount of the fees within thirty (30) days following imposition of the fees on 
the Olympic Park SPA based upon the application of the Rational Nexus Test (as 
defined in Article 6.2.1). 
6.2.1 Rational Nexus Test. For purposes of this Development Agreement, the 
Rational Nexus Test shall mean and refer to a standard of 
reasonableness whereby the Olympic Park shall not bear more than an 
equitable share of the capital costs financed by an impact fee or exaction 
in relation to the benefits conferred on and impacts of the Project. The 
interpretation of "rational nexus" shall be governed by the federal or Utah 
case law and statutes in effect at the time of any challenge to an impact 
fee or exaction imposed as provided herein including, but not limited to, 
the standards of Banberry Development Corp. v. South Jordan City or its 
successor case law. 
6.3 Considerations for Community Benefits. The County acknowledges that 
Developer is a not-for-profit entity and will be supplying a substantial benefit to 
the community. In addition, it is a central purpose of the Project to preserve the 
long term viability of the Olympic Park by obtaining additional funding and to 
incent private development partners to avoid depleting the endowment 
established to fund the operation of the Olympic Park. Accordingly, the County 
agrees to reasonably consider, to the extent allowed by applicable law, the 
following avenues of potential assistance: 
6.3.1 Economic Development Tools such as Tax Increment Financing, 
Redevelopment Areas (RDA's), enterprise zones, public infrastructure 
districts, special service district designations, creation of political 
subdivision of the State,and or similar land designations that would assist 
the Utah Athletic Foundation in its long-term sustainability efforts. 
6.3.2 County merit-based grant allocations, (such as or similar to Transient 
Room Tax (TRT) or resort communities sales and use tax, to assist the 
Utah Athletic Foundation in efforts to further enhance the outlined 
community benefits. 
6.4 Future Olympic Games In the event that, during the term of this Development 
Agreement, the State of Utah is chosen to host another Olympic Games and, as 
a result of such Olympic Games, the Olympic Park is identified as an official 
competition venue, the County will look to assist these efforts by: 
91
6.4.1 Allowing transportation and security staging areas in designated areas of 
property located below the Olympic Park and in the surrounding Kimball 
Junction area, as conceptually outlined in the Olympic Park SPA Plan 
Book of Exhibits as Exhibit I, subject to any terms and conditions deemed 
necessary by the County and the Snyderville Basin Special Recreation 
District togethér with any releases or waivers required by that certain 
Declaration and Notice of Use Restrictions, dated November 20, 2008, to 
ensure that any area of disturbance is immediately and effectively 
mitigated restored upon termination of the Olympic Games. 
6.4.2 Provide planning support and assistance to any bid / organizing committee 
efforts. 
6.4.3 Fairly negotiate any community services agreements and support to 
staging a future effort. 
6.4.36.4.4 Designate the Utah Olympic Park as a “Major Sporting Event Venu” 
pursuant to SB333, 2025 General Legislative Session. 
6.5 Transportation Special Service District. When public bus service to the Olympic 
Park is made available by the County, Developer agrees to be annexed into the 
Kimball Area Transportation Special Service District and pay such assessments, 
on an equal basis, as are required of other property owners therein. 
6.6 Traffic Capacity. Developer's traffic report, Exhibit K. 1, acknowledged limitations 
in traffic capacity with the accessing area. Limitations for Phase I of the project, 
as identified in the traffic report, have been corrected with the cooperative efforts 
of Summit County and UDOT by implementing dual lefts at Olympic Park and 
SR-224. The Developer acknowledges the need for additional access capacity 
prior to construction of Phase 2 as identified in Exhibit K.1. The Snyderville Basin 
Transportation Master Plan identifies means to provide the required capacity. 
These concepts or others as amended in the Transportation Master Plan will 
need to be implemented in advance of Phase 2 construction. 
 
 
 
Article 7  
PUBLIC BENEFITS 
7.1 Contribution of Public Benefits. As a consideration for the County's entry into the 
Development Agreement, Developer shall provide the following Public Benefits 
beyond those public impacts created by the Project: 
92
7.1.1 UAF Property Open Space Preservation. Developer shall preserve the 
natural open space areas owned by the Developer and shown on the 
Master Conceptual Development PlanFinal Site Plans in the same 
general condition as those areas are presently found. Any disturbance of 
those areas for construction staging or the installation of utility lines shall 
be restored within one (1) year of completion of said construction or 
installation. 
7.1.2 Trails. Developer shall contribute to community trails and parks including 
working with the Snyderville Basin Special Recreation District to identify 
possible trail linkages and trail heads. 
7.1.3 Recreational Programs. Provide affordable, subsidized long term 
community recreation programs (especially for Summit County's youth). 
7.1.4 Olympic  Winter  Sport.  Provide unique  public program offerings  that 
highlight our  region's support and interest in Olympic Winter Sport s. 
7.1.5 Olympic  Legacy  Foundation.  Provide local  organizational  leadership  
towards  initiatives  of Utah's Olympic Legacy Foundation  that ties in 
statewide interests to  Summit County.  
7.1.6 Education  Outreach.  The nature of the Utah Athletic  Foundation (d.b.a.  
"Utah Olympic  Legacy Foundation") is  to promote an ongoing legacy 
of the Olympic movement's efforts, to include efforts to  promote sport  
and physical activity  for all (especially for  the community's youth)  and 
to promote  educational curriculum and  community  partner  programs  
that have similar interests. It is  the intent  of the leadership of  the Utah 
Athletic Foundation to  utilize the Olympic  Park for numerous  and 
diverse  community meetings  and educational  components  that will 
serve a broad regional and statewide interest.  
 
Article 8 
SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS 
8.1 Binding Effect. This Development Agreement shall be binding on the successors 
and assigns of Developer in the ownership or development of any portion of the 
Olympic Park SPA. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a purchaser of the Project or 
any portion thereof shall be responsible for performance of Developer's 
obligations hereunder as to the portion of the Project so transferred in 
accordance with the provisions of Article 8.2 hereinof. 
8.2 Transfer of the Project. Developer shall be entitled to transfer any portion of the 
Project subject to the terms of the Development Agreement and any 
93
amendments upon written notice to the County. In the event of any such 
complete transfer of all or a portion of Developer's interests in the Project, the 
transferee shall be deemed to be Developer for all purposes under this 
Development Agreement with respect to that portion of the Project transferred. 
Developer's obligation to notify the County shall terminate with respect to 
portions of the Project on which all of the improvements required by this 
Development Agreement have been substantially completed as evidenced by a 
certificate of occupancy granted by the County. 
8.3 Release of Developer. In the event of a transfer of all or a portion of the Project, 
Developer shall obtain an assumption by the transferee of Developer's 
obligations under this Development Agreement, and, in such event, the 
transferee shall be fully substituted as Developer under the Development 
Agreement, and Developer shall be released from any further obligations with 
respect to this Development Agreement as to the parcel so transferred. 
8.4 Obligations and Rights of Mortgage Lenders. The holder of any mortgage, deed 
of trust, or other security arrangement with respect to the Project, or any portion 
thereof, shall not be obligated under this Development Agreement to construct or 
complete improvements or to guarantee such construction or completion, but 
shall otherwise be bound by all of the terms and conditions of this Development 
Agreement and any amendments which pertain to the Project or such portion 
thereof in which it holds an interest. Any such holder who comes into possession 
of the Project, or any portion thereof, pursuant to a foreclosure of a mortgage or 
a deed of trust, or deed in lieu of such foreclosure shall take the Project, or such 
portion thereof, subject to any pro rata claims for payments or charges against 
the Project, or such portion thereof, deed restrictions, or other obligations which 
accrue prior to the time such holder comes into possession. Nothing in this 
Development Agreement shall be deemed or• construed to permit or authorize 
any such holder to devote the Project, or any portion thereof, to any uses, or to 
construct any improvements thereon, other than those uses and improvements 
provided for or authorized by the Development Agreement and any 
amendments, and, as would be the case in any assignment, the purchaser of the 
Project from the holder shall be subject to all of the terms and conditions of the 
Development Agreement, including the obligation to complete all required 
amenities and improvements and to comply with all parking provisions. 
  
94
 
Article 9 
DEFAULT, TERMINATION AND ARBITRATION 
 
9.1 Default. 
9.1.1 Events of Default. Default under this Development Agreement occurs 
upon the happening ofn one or more of the following events or conditions: 
9.1.1.1 A warranty, representation or statement made or furnished by 
Developer to the County in this Development Agreement, including 
any attachments hereto, is materially false or proves to have been 
materially false in any material respect when it was made. 
9.1.1.2 A finding and determination made by the Summit County Manager 
by substantial evidence that the Developer has not complied in 
good faith with one or more of the material terms or conditions of 
this Development Agreement. 
9.1.1.3 Any other event, condition, act or omission by Developer, which 
materially interferes with the intent and objective of this 
Development Agreement, after the expiration of all notice and cure 
periods. 
9.1.2 Notice and Cure of Default. Within ten (10) days after the occurrence of 
default, the County shall give Developer (the "defaulting party'.') written 
notice specifying the nature of the alleged default and, when appropriate, 
the manner in which the default must be satisfactorily cured. Developer 
shall have sixty (60) days after receipt of written notice to cure the default. 
After proper notice and expiration of the sixty (60) day cure period without 
cure, the County may terminate or amend this Development Agreement 
by giving written notice in accordance with the procedure adopted by the 
County. Failure or delay in giving notice of default shall not constitute a 
waiver of any default, nor shall it change the time of default. 
Notwithstanding the sixty (60) day cure period provided above, in the 
event more than thirty (30) days is reasonably required to cure a default 
and Developer, within the sixty (60) day cure period, commences actions 
reasonably designed to cure the default, then the cure period shall be 
extended for such additional period as Developer is prosecuting those 
actions diligently to completion. 
9.1.3 Non-Waiver.  Neither Party waives any claim of defect in performance of 
this Development Agreement by the other Party. 
95
9.1.4 Other Remedies. All other remedies at law or in equity which are 
consistent with the provisions of this Development Agreement are 
available to the Parties to pursue in the event there is a breach. 
9.2 Termination 
9.2.1 Termination Upon Repudiation. An express repudiation, refusal or 
renunciation of this Development Agreement, if the same is in writing and 
signed by the Developer, shall be sufficient to terminate this Development 
Agreement and a public hearing on the matter shall not be required. 
9.2.2 Termination Upon Completion of Development. This Development 
Agreement shall terminate when the Project has been fully developed and 
Developer's and the County's obligations in connection therewith are 
satisfied, or at the expiration of the term of this Development Agreement 
as set forth in Article 10.5. The County shall record a notice that this 
Development Agreement has been fully performed and therefore has 
been terminated. 
9.2.3 Effect of Termination on Developer Obligations. Termination of the 
Development Agreement as to any Developer of the Project or any portion 
thereof shall not affect any such Developer's obligations under this 
Agreement or obligations to comply with the terms and conditions of any 
applicable zoning, or subdivision plat, site plan, Building Permit, or other 
land use entitlements approved with respect to the Project, nor shall it 
affect any other covenants or any other development requirements 
specified or created pursuant to the Development Agreement. Termination 
of the Development Agreement shall not affect or invalidate in any manner 
Developer's obligations of mutual release under Article 10.8 or 
indemnification and hold harmless under Article 10.16. 
9.2.4 Effect of Termination on the County Obligations. Upon any termination of 
the Development Agreement, the entitlements (including density), 
conditions of development, limitations on fees, and all other terms and 
conditions of the Development Agreement and any amendments shall no 
longer be vested by reason of the Development Agreement with respect 
to any portion of the Project then undeveloped and not then covered by a 
Building Permit application. Those undeveloped portions of the Project 
may be subject to then existing planning and zoning law. Upon such a 
termination, the County shall no longer be 'prohibited by the Development 
Agreement from making any changes or modifications to such 
entitlements, conditions, or fees applicable to such undeveloped portions 
of the Project. Further, with respect to the improved portions of the 
Project, the County shall remain obligated to recognize and apply the 
development standards and configuration contained in the Olympic Park 
SPA Plan Book of Exhibits. 
96
9.2.5 Reversion to Regulations for Unimproved Portions of the Project. Should 
the County terminate the Development Agreement under the provisions 
hereof, Developer's remaining unimproved portions of the Project will 
thereafter comply with and be governed by the applicable County 
Development Code and General Plan then in existence, as well as with all 
other provisions of Utah State law. 
Article 10 
GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
10.1 No Addition to Project. No property may be added to the Project or to the 
Olympic Park SPA for purposes of the Development Agreement, except by 
written amendment. This Development Agreement shall not affect any land other 
than the Project. 
10.2 Development Agreement to run with the Land. The Development Agreement and 
any amendments shall be recorded against the Olympic Park. The agreements 
contained herein shall be deemed to run with the land and shall be binding on 
and shall inure to the benefit of all successors in ownership of the Project. 
10.3 Construction of Development Agreement. The Development Agreement shall be 
construed so as to effectuate the public purpose of resolving disputes, 
implementing long-range planning objectives, obtaining public benefits, and 
protecting any compelling, countervailing public interest, while providing 
assurances of continued vested development rights under the Development 
Agreement. 
10.4 Laws of General Applicability. Where the Development Agreement refers to laws 
of general applicability to the Olympic Park SPA and other properties, that 
language shall be deemed to refer to laws, which apply to, all other developed 
and subdivided properties within the Snyderville Basin of Summit County. 
10.5 Duration. The term of this Development Agreement shall commence on, and the 
effective date of this Development Agreement shall be, the effective date of the 
Ordinance approving this Development Agreement. The initial term shall be for a 
ten (10) year period. Prior to the expiration of any ten (10) year term, the 
Developer may request in writing an additional ten (I 0) year extension of this 
Development Agreement from the County Council. The written request may be 
made no more than two (2) times for a total duration of thirty (30) years if both 
extensions are granted. The County Council shall review the extension 
request(s) to ensure that the Developer is in compliance with this Development 
Agreement and that the request does not jeopardize the health, safety and 
welfare of the citizens of Summit County. Absent any negative determination 
from the County Council in the course of the above described review, the County 
Council shall approve the extension request. At the expiration of this 
Development Agreement, or the renewal period, the Olympic Park shall become 
97
subject to the then existing Development Code and General Plan and all 
development rights vested under this Development Agreement shall expire. 
10.510.5.1 Permitted Extension Requests 
 
 Entry Number Summary of 
Amendment 
Adopted 
Original 
Development 
Agreement 
00989488 
(Ordinance 820) 
N/A November 
6, 2013 
First 
Amendment 
01097502 Amendments to 
Exhibit H and 
Engineering 
Standards 
July 16, 
2018 
Second 
Amendment 
01117394 Amendments to 
Exhibit H and 
restricted 
affordable 
housing 
August 
30, 2019 
Third 
Amendment 
01216610 Extends original 
DA term for an 
additional ten 
years 
August 3, 
2023 
    
    
 
10.6 Amendments. 
10.6.1 Substantial Amendments. Any amendment to the Development 
Agreement that alters or modifies the Terms of the Development 
Agreement, or permitted uses, addsition or removesal of any lands, 
increasesd density or intensity of use, deletesion of any major public 
amenity described herein, or provisions for reservation and dedication of 
land, including open space dedications, shall be deemed a "Substantial 
Amendment" and shall require a noticed public hearing and 
recommendation by the Planning Commission and a noticed public 
hearing and decision by the County Council pursuant to the Equal 
Dignities Rule prior to the execution of such an amendment. 
10.6.2 Administrative Amendments. Unless otherwise provided by law, all 
amendments to the Development Agreement that are not Substantial 
Amendments shall be Administrative Amendments and shall not require 
a public hearing or recommendation of the Planning Commission prior 
to the execution by the Parties of such an amendment. The Director is 
98
hereby empowered to make all final Administrative Amendment 
decisions. 
10.6.3 Effect of Amendments. Any amendment to the Development Agreement 
shall be operative only as to those specific portions of this Development 
Agreement expressly subject to the amendment, with all other terms 
and conditions remaining in full force and effect without interruption. 
10.7 Conflicts. 
10.7.1 To the extent there is any ambiguity in or conflict with the provisions of 
the Development Agreement and the Olympic Park SPA Plan Book of 
Exhibits (including, without limitation, the Final Site Plans, Lighting 
Guidelines, Landscaping Plan, and Architectural Design Guidelines 
therein), the more specific and/or more restrictive provision or language 
shall take precedence over more general provisions or language. 
10.7.2 The County has reviewed the Code and General Plan and has 
determined that Developer has substantially complied with the 
provisions thereof and hereby finds that the Olympic Park SPA is 
consistent with the purpose and intent of the relevant provisions of the 
Snyderville Basin Development Code and General Plan. The Parties 
further agree that the omission of a limitation or restriction herein shall 
not relieve Developer of the necessity of complying with all applicable 
County Ordinances and Resolutions not in conflict with the provisions of 
this Development Agreement, along with all applicable state and federal 
laws. 
10.8 Mutual Releases. At the time of, and subject to, (i) the expiration of any 
applicable appeal period with respect to the approval of this Development 
Agreement without an appeal having been filed or (ii) the final determination of 
any court upholding this Development Agreement, whichever occurs later, and 
excepting the Parties' respective rights and obligations under this Development 
Agreement, Developer, on behalf of itself and Developer's partners, officers, 
directors, employees, agents, attorneys and consultants, hereby releases the 
County and the County's council members, officials, employees, agents, 
attorneys and consultants, and the County, on behalf of itself and the County's 
council members, officials, employees, agents, attorneys and consultants, herby 
releases Developer and Developer's partners, officers, directors, employees, 
agents, attorneys and consultants, from and against any and all claims, 
demands, liabilities, costs, expenses of whatever nature, whether known or 
unknown, and whether liquidated or contingent, arising on or before the date of 
this Development Agreement in connection with the application, processing or 
approval of the Olympic Park SPA, Olympic Park SPA Plan, and the 
Development Agreement and amendments, to include any claims for vested 
development rights by any Developer on property which is within the Olympic 
Park SPA. 
99
10.9 State and Federal Law. The Parties agree, intend and understand that the 
obligations imposed by the Development Agreement are only such as are 
consistent with state and federal law. The Parties further agree that if any 
provision of the Development Agreement becomes, in its performance, 
inconsistent with state or federal law or is declared invalid, the Development 
Agreement shall be deemed amended to the extent necessary to make it 
consistent with state or federal law, as the case may be, and the balance of the 
Development Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. 
10.10 Enforcement. The Parties to this Development Agreement recognize that the 
County has the right to enforce it rules, policies, regulations, and ordinances, 
subject to the terms of this Development Agreement, and may, as its option, 
seek an injunction to compel such compliance. In the event that Developer or 
any user of the subject property violates the rules, policies, regulations or 
ordinances of the County or violates the terms of the Development Agreement as 
amended, the County may, without electing to seek an injunction and after thirty 
(30) days written notice to correct the violation (or such longer period as may be 
established in the discretion of the County Council or a court of competent 
jurisdiction if Developer has used its reasonable best efforts to cure such 
violation within such thirty (30) days and is continuing to use its reasonable best 
efforts to cure such violation), take such actions as shall be deemed appropriate 
under law until such conditions have been honored by Developer. The Parties 
further recognize that Developer has the right to enforce the provisions of the 
Development Agreement by seeking an injunction to compel compliance to the 
extent not inconsistent with the County's reserved legislative and police powers, 
as well as the County's discretionary administrative decision-making functions 
provided for herein. Both Parties shall be free from any liability arising out of the 
exercise of its rights under this paragraph; provided, however, that any Party 
may be liable to the other for the exercise of any rights in violation of Rule 11 of 
the Utah Rules of Civil1 Procedure, Rule 11 of the Federal Rules of Civil 
Procedure and/or Utah Code Annotated Section 78-27-56, as each may be 
amended. 
10.11 No Waiver. Failure of a Party hereto to exercise any right hereunder shall not be 
deemed a waiver of any such right and shall not affect the right of such Party to 
exercise at some future time said right or any other right it may have hereunder. 
Unless the Development Agreement is amended by vote of the County Council 
taken with the same formality as the vote approving this Development 
Agreement, no officer, official or agent of the County has the power to amend, 
modify or alter this Development Agreement or waive any of its conditions as to 
bind the County by making any promise or representation not contained herein. 
10.12 Entire Agreement. This Development Agreement constitutes the entire 
agreement between the Parties with respect to the issues addressed herein and 
supersedes all prior agreements, whether oral or written, covering the same 
subject matter. The Development Agreement may not be modified or amended 
100
except in writing mutually agreed to and accepted by both Parties to the 
Development Agreement and recorded. 
10.13 Notices. Any notice, confirmation or other communication hereunder (each, a 
"Notice") shall be given in writing by certified mail, postage prepaid, or personally 
or by nationally-recognized overnight courier, at the following addresses, or by 
facsimile to the following facsimile numbers provided the transmitting facsimile 
machine shall automatically prepare a confirmation or successful facsimile 
transmission: 
 
To the County: 
 
The County Council  
Summit County Courthouse 
P .O Box 128 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
Facsimile: (435) 336-3030 
 
 
Summit County Director of Community Development 
P .O Box 128 
Coalville, Utah 84017  
 
With a copy to: 
David L. Thomas 
Chief Civil Deputy Summit County Attorney 
P .O. Box 128 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
Facsimile: (435) 336-3287  
 
To Developer: 
Colin Hilton  
President / CEO 
Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation  
PO Box 980337 
3419 Olympic Parkway  
Park City, Utah 84098  
Facsimile: (435) 658-4250 
 
With a copy to: 
 
Allison BehjaniIra B. Rubinfeld, Esq. 
Ray Quinney & Nebeker P .C. 
36 South State Street, Suite 1400 
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111  
101
Facsimile: (801) 532-7543 
 
 
Or to such other addresses, such other facsimile numbers, or the attention of 
such other person as either Party or their successors may designate by written 
notice. Notice shall be deemed given upon actual receipt, if personally delivered, 
when transmitted if delivered by facsimile, one (1) business day following deposit 
with a reputable overnight courier that provides a receipt, or on the third (3rd) 
day following deposit in the United States mail in the manner described above. 
 
 
10.14  Applicable Law. This Development Agreement is entered into under and 
pursuant to, and is to be construed and enforceable in accordance with, the laws 
of the State of Utah. 
10.15 Execution of Development Agreement. This Development Agreement and any 
amendments may be executed in multiple counterparts or originals or by 
facsimile copies of executed originals; provided, however, if executed and 
evidence of execution is made by facsimile copy, then an original shall be 
provided to the other Party within seven (7) days of receipt of said facsimile 
copy. 
10.16 Indemnification and Hold Harmless. Developer agrees to and shall indemnify 
and hold County, its officers, agents, employees, consultants, attorneys, special 
counsel and representatives harmless from liability: (1) for damages, just 
compensation, restitution, judicial or equitable relief arising out of claims for 
personal injury, including death, and claims for property damage which may arise 
from the direct or indirect operations of Developer or its contractors, 
subcontractors, agents, employees or other persons acting on their behalf; and 
(2) from any claim of damages, just compensation, restitution, judicial or 
equitable relief due by reason of the terms of or effect arising from the 
Development Agreement. Developer agrees to pay all costs for the defense of 
the County and its officers, agents, employees, consultants, attorneys, special 
counsel and representatives regarding any action for damages, just 
compensation, restitutions, judicial or equitable relief caused or alleged to have 
been caused by reason of Developer's actions in connection with the Olympic 
Park SPA or any claims arising out of the Development Agreement. This hold 
harmless agreement applies to all claims for damages, just compensation, 
restitution, judicial or equitable relief suffered or alleged to have been suffered by 
reason of the events referred to in this paragraph or due by reason of the terms 
of, or effects arising from the Development Agreement regardless of whether or 
not the County prepared, supplied or approved the Development Agreement, 
plans or specifications, or both, for the Project. Developer further agrees to 
indemnify, hold harmless, and pay all costs for the defense of the County, 
including fees and costs for special counsel to be selected by the County, 
regarding any action by a third party challenging the validity of the Development 
102
Agreement or asserting that damages, just compensation, restitution, judicial or 
equitable relief is due by reason of the terms of, or effects arising from the 
Development Agreement. County may make all reasonable decisions with 
respect to its representation in any legal proceeding. 
10.16.1 Exceptions to Hold Harmless. The agreements of Developer in Article 
10.16 shall not be applicable to (i) any claim arising by reason of the 
negligence or intentional actions of the County, or (ii) any claim reserved 
by Developer under the terms of this Development Agreement for just 
compensation. 
10.16.2 Hold Harmless Procedures. The County shall give written notice of any 
claim, demand, action or proceeding which is the subject of Developer's 
hold harmless agreement as soon as practicable but not later than ten 
(10) business days after the assertion or commencement of the claim, 
demand, action or proceeding. In the event any such notice is given, the 
County shall be entitled to participate in the defense of such claim. Each 
Party agrees to cooperate with the other in the defense of any claim and 
to minimize duplicative costs and expenses. 
10.17 Relationship of Parties. The contractual relationship between the County and 
Developer arising out of the Development Agreement is one of independent 
contractor and not agency. It is specifically understood by the Parties that: (a) the 
Olympic Park SPA Plan is a private development; (b) County has no interest in, 
responsibilities for, or duty to third parties concerning any improvements to the 
Olympic Park unless the County accepts the improvements pursuant to the 
provisions of this Development Agreement or in connection with subdivision plat, 
site plan, deed, or map approval; and (c) Developer shall have the full power and 
exclusive control of the Project subject to the obligations of Developer set forth in 
the Development Agreement. 
10.18 No Third Party Beneficiaries. This Development Agreement is not intended to 
affect or create any rights or obligations on the part of third parties. 
10.19 Computation of Time. In computing any period of time pursuant to the 
Development Agreement, the day of the act, event or default from which the 
designated period of time begins to run shall be included, unless it is a Saturday, 
Sunday, or legal holiday, in which event the period shall begin to run on the next 
day which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday. 
10.20 Titles and Captions. All section titles or captions contained in the Development 
Agreement are for convenience only and shall not be deemed part of the context 
nor affect the interpretation hereof. 
10.21 Savings Clause. If any provision of the Development Agreement, or the 
application of such provision to any person or circumstance, shall be held invalid, 
the remainder of the Development Agreement, or the application of such 
103
provision to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is held 
invalid, shall not be affected thereby. 
10.22 Force Majeure. Any default or inability to cure a default caused by strikes, 
lockouts, labor disputes, acts of God, inability to obtain labor or materials or 
reasonable substitutes therefore, enemy or hostile governmental action, civil 
commotion, fire or other casualty, or other similar causes beyond the reasonable 
control of the Party obligated to perform, shall excuse the performance by such 
Party for a period equal to the period during which any such event prevented, 
delayed or stopped any required performance or effort to cure a default. 
10.23 Severability. If any provision of the Development Agreement, or the application of 
such provision to any person or circumstance, is held invalid, void, or 
unenforceable, but the remainder of this Development Agreement can be 
enforced without failure of material consideration to any Party, then the 
remainder of the Development Agreement shall not be affected thereby and it 
shall remain in full force and effect, unless amended or modified by mutual 
consent of the Parties. If any material provision of the Development Agreement 
is held invalid, void, or unenforceable or if consideration is removed or 
destroyed, the Developer or the County shall have the right in their sole and 
absolute discretion to terminate the Development Agreement by providing written 
notice of such termination to the other Party. 
10.24 Project is a Private Undertaking. It is agreed among the Parties that the Project 
is a private development and that the County has no interest therein except as 
authorized in the exercise of its governmental functions. The Project is not a joint 
venture, and there is no such relationship involving the County. Nothing in the 
Development Agreement shall preclude the Developer and any participating 
landowner from forming any form of investment entity for the purpose of 
completing any portion of the Project. 
  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Development Agreement has been executed by Summit 
County, acting by and through the County Council of Summit County, State of Utah, 
pursuant to Ordinance No. 820, authorizing such execution, and by a duly authorized 
representative of Developer, as of the above stated date. 
104
Parcel Ref #
Proposed 
Parcel 
Ref #
Maximum 
Building Height 
Proposed 
Maximum 
Building 
Height Max Gross Building  
Area
Proposed Maximum 
"Commercial" Gross 
Developed Floor Area 
Proposed Maximum 
"Affordable" Gross 
Developed Floor Area
Proposed Maximum 
"Attainable" Gross 
Developed Floor Area
Proposed Maximum 
"Olympic Park 
Operational Support 
Area" Gross 
Developed Floor Area
Proposed Total 
Maximum Gross 
Developed Floor Area 
Per Parcel Principle Uses Proposed Principle Uses
1 55 18,400 workforce/athlete housing
2 55 23,950 workforce/athlete housing
3 55 22,080 30,000 60,000 30,000 0 120,000 workforce/athlete housing
4 2 40 40 2,800 0 30,000 30,000 workforce/athlete housing Olympic Park Operational Support Area
5 40 40,000 office medical
6 32 6,200 athlete support/reception
7 63 68,275 office/athlete support/commercial
8 63 38,000 190,000 0 0 55,000 245,000 office/athlete support
9 63 6,700 office/athlete support
10 63 20,110 athlete support
11 50 6,000 25,000 0 0 42,852 67,852 athlete support
12 5 50 50 0 21,980 20,000 10,000 51,980 athlete support
Affordable & Attainable Housng + 
Olympic Park Operational Support Area
20,500 athlete support/residential -
13 50 35' 15,000 athlete support/residential
Affordable & Attainable Housng + 
Residential
14 50 7,500 10,000 15,000 25,000 0 50,000 athlete support/residential -
- 7 50 0 0 0 0 2,000 2,000 Olympic Park Operational Support Area
- 8 50 0 2,000 0 0 0 2,000 Commercial - hospitality 
295,515 257,000 96,980 75,000 139,852
Square Footage 
Reduction -38,515
Notes: For Parcels 1-5, development square footages may be placed in any development parcel  within the SPA. No maximum square footages within development parcels 1-5 are established or required provided the proposed development meets all SPA and/or Summit County 
Development Standards. The Proposed Commercial Gross Developed Floor Area does not include Commercial  Use support areas as defined in Section 1.30
Land Use and Zoning: Chart 1
4
55
63
6-A
6-B
Affordable and Attainable housing / 
lodging
Commercial - 
conference/lodging/office/sports 
performance/welcome center
Olympic Park Operational Support Area + 
Commercial + Maintenance 
63
1
3
105
 
Memo 
Date:  January 9, 2026 
To:  Christopher M. Conabee; Utah Development and Construction 
From:  Fiona Dunn, Preston Stinger; Fehr & Peers 
Subject:  Utah Olympic Park Trip Generation 
 
Introduction 
This memorandum evaluates the differences in trip generation between the original land use program 
included in the 2011 Traffic Impact Study (TIS) for the Utah Olympic Park (UOP) development in 
Summit County, Utah, and the updated site plan as of 2025. The original TIS, submitted in November 
2011, was approved by Summit County. Since that time, minor modifications have been made to the 
land use assumptions. As a result, a new trip generation analysis has been conducted to reflect the 
changes associated with the updated development plan. 
General Update 
At the time of the 2011 TIS, UOP had the following proposed land uses set to be built over two phases. 
The first phase of the project included: 
• 112 residential units 
• 40,000 square feet of medical office 
• 6,200 square feet day lodge expansion, including 3,100 feet of athlete support and 3,100 feet 
of conference/reception/flex space 
The second phase (full build out) of the project included: 
• 13,900 square feet of indoor recreation 
• 3,875 square feet of commercial  
• 9,000 square feet of school approximately 90 students (including 45 existing students) 
• 103,710 square feet of office 
• 2,600 square feet of luge facility 
• 6,000 square feet of lift/recreation base 
• 29 residential units 
Since 2011, UOP has constructed an athlete housing residential building which contains 72 dwelling 
units. These units are estimated to generate 23 AM peak hour, 25 PM peak hour, and 282 daily trips. 
106
  UOP Trip Generation | 2 
These trips are included in the new (2025) land use program trip generation as they currently exist 
and can explain some of the differences between the number of trips generated by each program. 
Land Use Program Update 
Per the 2011 and 2025 land use programs, the proposed development is slated to be built adjacent to 
the existing Utah Olympic Park facilities along Olympic Parkway between Olympic Parkway (New Park 
Boulevard) and Bear Hollow Drive. Access to the development will occur by way of Olympic Parkway, 
under existing roadway geometry. However, according to the Summit County Long Range 
Transportation Plan (LRTP) from 2022, there is a proposed project to connect Olympic Parkway to 
Bear Cub Drive. If completed, this will distribute traffic generated by the development onto two 
roadways and two intersections. As such, there is potential that this distribution of traffic will improve 
existing traffic conditions despite any increase in land uses and trip generation. 
Key differences in the land use programs between 2011 and 2025 include: 
Phase 1: 
1. Reduction in medical office space; the 2011 land use program included over double the 
amount of square footage devoted to medical office space as proposed in the 2025 land use 
program. 
2. Increase in general office space; the 2011 land use program included all general office spaces 
as part of Phase 2, however, in the 2025 update this land use has been moved to Phase 1. As 
such, there is an increase during Phase 1, but under a full build out, the general office land use 
decreases approximately by half. 
3. Addition of a hotel; the 2025 land use program includes a 120-key hotel, which was absent 
from the original land use program. 
Full Build Out: 
1. Increase in athlete support uses; the 2025 land use program more than doubles the amount 
of square footage available as athlete support. 
2. Removal of the school; the 2011 land use program included a school, which is absent from the 
updated land use program. 
3. Reduction in general office space; the 2011 land use program included over 100,000 SF 
devoted to general office space in Phase 2. In the 2025 land use program, all general office 
space is in Phase 1, however, the total amount, between the two phases, decreases by nearly 
half. 
4. Increase in commercial/flex space; the 2011 land use program had a minimal amount of space 
devoted to a small café, staging, or pro shop - all of which were intended serving existing 
Olympic Park users. The square footage devoted to these uses is proposed to be increased. 
However, as is stated in the 2011 TIS, these uses do not generate trips as they are for guests 
who are already on site at the UOP for a variety of other uses. 
The differences between the two programs are outlined below in Table 1 which includes all of the 
2025 potential land uses. 
107
  UOP Trip Generation | 3 
Table 1. Land Use Program Comparison 
Land Use 2011 Land Use 
Program 
2025 Land Use 
Program Difference Percent 
Difference 
Phase 1 
Residential3 112 DU 72 DU -40 DU -36% 
Medical Office 40,000 SF 15,400 SF -24,600 SF -62% 
General Office - 69,600 SF +69,600 SF - 
Athlete Support 6,200 SF 15,000 SF +8,800 SF +142% 
Hotel - 120 Keys +120 Keys - 
Full Build Out (including Phase 1) 
Residential 141 DU 222 DU +81 DU +57% 
Athlete Support/Indoor 
Recreation 20,100 SF 45,500 SF +25,400 SF +126% 
Medical Office 40,000 SF 15,400 SF -24,600 SF -62% 
General Office 103,700 SF 69,600 SF -61,100 SF -33% 
Hotel - 120 Keys +120 Keys - 
Winter School 45 Students - -45 Students - 
Commercial/Flex 3,900 SF 12,000 SF  +8,100 SF +207% 
1. Rounded to the nearest 100th.  
2. Luge Facilities and Lift/Recreation Base land uses from the 2011 Program are excluded as they are not 
destination uses and as such are not anticipated to generate trips from outside the development. 
3. The 72 dwelling units in the 2025 Phase 1 land use program have already been built since 2011. 
Source: Fehr & Peers, 2025. 
Trip Generation 
The trip generation rates for the 2025 land use program were based on the Institute of Transportation 
Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation, 12th Edition (2025), which provides the most current and up-to-
date data available. This represents an update from the 8th Edition (2008) used in the original 2011 
Traffic Impact Study (TIS). 
Consistent with the TIS methodology, trip generation for athlete support uses was derived from data 
collected during the original study. These custom rates were maintained as the travel behavior 
associated with these uses is unique. It has been observed that residents of the development will 
primarily access these facilities, resulting in relatively few trips from outside the development. 
In addition, Fehr & Peers applied the Mixed-Use Development (MXD+) methodology designed to 
account for the traffic benefits of mixed-use projects. MXD+ evaluates interactions among land uses 
and the share of trips made by alternative modes (e.g., transit, bicycling, walking). Based on MXD+ 
outputs for Phase 1, internal capture trip reductions of 8.6% (daily), 10.2% (AM peak), and 6.1% (PM 
peak) were applied—reflecting cases where a single visitor engages with multiple land uses within the 
development during one trip. Further trip reductions of 1.9% (daily), 2.2% (AM peak), and 1.9% (PM 
peak) were applied to account for mode shifts to active transportation and transit. MXD+ outputs for 
Full Build Out estimated internal capture trip reduction rates of 11% (daily), 14.4% (AM peak), and 7.5% 
(PM peak) which were applied to the trip generation. With further trip reductions of 2% (daily), 2 % 
(AM peak), and 1.8% (PM peak) also applied to account for mode shifts. Together, these adjustments 
108
  UOP Trip Generation | 4 
provide a more realistic estimate of total external trip generation for the project under Phase 1 and 
Full Build Out conditions. 
Table 2 shows the difference and percentage difference between the daily, AM, and PM trips 
generated by the 2011 and 2025 land use programs. The full 2011 and 2025 trip generation tables can 
be found in the appendix. 
Table 2: Trip Generation Comparison 
Time Period 2011 Trip 
Generation 
2025 Trip 
Generation1 Difference Percent 
Difference 
Phase 1 
Daily 1,730 2,334 +604 +35% 
AM Peak Period 93 223 +130 +140% 
PM Peak Period 105 237 +132 +126% 
Full Build Out (including Phase 1) 
Daily 3,522 3,762 +240 +7% 
AM Peak Period 257 341 +84 +33% 
PM Peak Period 323 358 +35 +11% 
1. Inclusive of the existing 72 dwelling units built since 2011. 
Source: Fehr & Peers, 2025. 
Summary 
Table 2 indicates that the updated (2025) land use program – inclusive of all potential land use being 
considered (including the existing 72 dwelling units that have been built since 2011)- would generate 
more daily and AM and PM peak hour vehicle trips than the original (2011) land use program under the 
Full Build Out conditions. The increase in vehicle trips can be attributed to residential land uses that 
have been and are proposed to be built, the inclusion of the hotel, and increase in athlete support 
square footage. The inclusion and increase of the land uses during daily and AM and PM peak hours 
are not fully offset by the reduction in office space, and other uses.  
UDOT is planning to make updates to SR-224 and the I-80 / SR-224 interchange to alleviate 
congestion and accommodate future growth. The County may also proceed with connecting Olympic 
Parkway to Bear Cub Drive as recommended in the County’s LRTP. As the currently proposed project 
would generate more daily, AM, and PM peak hour trips than were estimated in the November 2011 
TIS, and with the proposed roadway improvements, it is unlikely that any new or more severe impacts 
would occur as a result of the minimal increase of peak hour trips. Accordingly, it is our 
recommendation that no updates to the 2011 TIS are needed. 
  
109
  UOP Trip Generation | 5 
Appendix 
2011 Trip Generation Table: 
 
 
1 Apartments 62 Dwelling Units 378 50% 50% 5% 180 180 360
2 Apartments 18 Dwelling Units 110 50% 50% 5% 52 52 104
3 Apartments 30 Dwelling Units 183 50% 50% 5% 87 87 174
4 Apartments 2 Dwelling Units 12 50% 50% 5% 6 6 12
5 Medical Office (720) 40,000 Square Feet 926 50% 50% 5% 440 440 880
6 Athlete Support 6,200 Square Feet 211 50% 50% 5% 100 100 200
Indoor Recreation Facility (492) 13,900 Square Feet 458 50% 50% 5% 217 217 434
Commercial/Flex 3,875 Square Feet - - - - - - -
Winter School 45 Students 112 50% 50% 5% 53 53 106
Office (710) 41,500 Square Feet 457 50% 50% 5% 217 217 434
8 Office (710) 38,000 Square Feet 418 50% 50% 5% 199 199 398
Office (710) 4,100 Square Feet 45 50% 50% 5% 21 21 42
Luge Facility 2,600 Square Feet - - - - - - -
10 Office (710) 20,110 Square Feet 221 50% 50% 5% 105 105 210
11 Lift/Recreation Base 6,000 Square Feet - - - - - - -
12 Apartments 14 Dwelling Units 85 50% 50% 5% 41 41 82
13 Apartments 10 Dwelling Units 61 50% 50% 5% 29 29 58
14 Apartments 5 Dwelling Units 31 50% 50% 5% 14 14 28
Net Weekday Daily Peak Hour Trips 1,761 1,761 3,522
1 Apartments 62 Dwelling Units 24 20% 80% 5% 5 18 23
2 Apartments 18 Dwelling Units 7 20% 80% 5% 1 5 6
3 Apartments 30 Dwelling Units 12 20% 80% 5% 2 9 11
4 Apartments 2 Dwelling Units 1 20% 80% 5% 0 1 1
5 Medical Office (720) 40,000 Square Feet 34 79% 21% 5% 26 7 33
6 Athlete Support 6,200 Square Feet 20 73% 27% 5% 14 5 19
Indoor Recreation Facility (492) 13,900 Square Feet 5 45% 55% 5% 2 3 5
Commercial/Flex 3,875 Square Feet - - - - - - -
Winter School 45 Students 36 61% 39% 5% 21 14 35
Office (710) 41,500 Square Feet 48 88% 12% 5% 40 5 45
8 Office (710) 38,000 Square Feet 44 88% 12% 5% 37 5 42
Office (710) 4,100 Square Feet 5 88% 12% 5% 4 1 5
Luge Facility 2,600 Square Feet - - - - - - -
10 Office (710) 20,110 Square Feet 23 88% 12% 5% 19 3 22
11 Lift/Recreation Base 6,000 Square Feet - - - - - - -
12 Apartments 14 Dwelling Units 5 20% 80% 5% 1 4 5
13 Apartments 10 Dwelling Units 4 20% 80% 5% 1 3 4
14 Apartments 5 Dwelling Units 2 20% 80% 5% 0 1 1
Net Weekday AM Peak Hour Trips 173 84 257
1 Apartments 62 Dwelling Units 30 65% 35% 5% 19 10 29
2 Apartments 18 Dwelling Units 9 65% 35% 5% 5 3 8
3 Apartments 30 Dwelling Units 15 65% 35% 5% 9 5 14
4 Apartments 2 Dwelling Units 1 65% 35% 5% 1 0 1
5 Medical Office (720) 40,000 Square Feet 39 27% 73% 5% 10 27 37
6 Athlete Support 6,200 Square Feet 16 24% 76% 5% 4 12 16
Indoor Recreation Facility (492) 13,900 Square Feet 51 57% 43% 5% 28 21 49
Commercial/Flex 3,875 Square Feet - - - - - - -
Winter School 45 Students 8 43% 57% 5% 3 4 7
Office (710) 41,500 Square Feet 62 17% 83% 5% 10 49 59
8 Office (710) 38,000 Square Feet 57 17% 83% 5% 9 45 54
Office (710) 4,100 Square Feet 6 17% 83% 5% 1 5 6
Luge Facility 2,600 Square Feet - - - - - - -
10 Office (710) 20,110 Square Feet 30 17% 83% 5% 5 24 29
11 Lift/Recreation Base 6,000 Square Feet - - - - - - -
12 Apartments 14 Dwelling Units 7 65% 35% 5% 4 2 6
13 Apartments 10 Dwelling Units 5 65% 35% 5% 3 2 5
14 Apartments 5 Dwelling Units 2 65% 35% 5% 2 1 3
Net Weekday PM Peak Hour Trips 113 210 323
1.  (XXX) Indicates ITE Land Use Code. Land Use Code from the Institute of Transportation Engineers - 8th Edition Trip Generation Manual (ITE Manual) 
2.  Traffic Generated by the development according to trip generation rates provided in the ITE Manual 
3.  Percentage of trips Entering and Exiting the development according to the ITE Manual.
SOURCE:  Fehr & Peers, August 2011
Transit 
Capture
Trips 
Entering
Trips 
Exiting
New PM Peak 
Hour Trips
% 
Entering3
% 
Exiting3
% 
Entering3
PM Peak Hour 
Trip Generation2
9
7
7
7
Transit 
Capture
New AM Peak 
Hour Trips
9
Parcel 
Number Land Use1 Number of 
Units Unit Type
9
Parcel 
Number Land Use1 Number of 
Units Unit Type AM Peak Hour 
Trip Generation2
% 
Exiting3
Utah Olympic Park
Full Build Out (2030) Trip Generation 
Number of 
Units
Parcel 
Number
Trips 
EnteringLand Use1 % 
Entering3
% 
Exiting3
Trips 
Exiting
New Daily Peak 
Hour Trips
Daily Peak Hour 
Trip Generation2Unit Type Transit 
Capture
Trips 
Entering
Trips 
Exiting
110
  UOP Trip Generation | 6 
2025 Trip Generation Table: 
 
1. (XXX) Indicates ITE Land Use Code. Land Use Code from the Institute of Transportation Engineers - 12th 
Edition Trip Generation Manual (ITE Manual) 
2. Traffic Generated by the development according to trip generation rates provided in the ITE Manual 
3. Percentage of trips Entering and Exiting the development according to the ITE Manual. 
4. Internal capture rates come from F&P's MXD+ tool. 
5. Shift to Transit and Bike/Walk percentages come from F&P's MXD+ tool. 
Source: Fehr & Peers, 2025. 
1 221 (Multifamily Housing (Mid-Rise) - Not Close to Rail Trans 72                Dwelling Unit 321 50% 50% 11.00% 2.0% 140 140 280
2 Athlete Support 6,126          Square Feet 209 50% 50% 11.00% 2.0% 91 91 182
Athlete Support 35,438       Square Feet 1208 50% 50% 11.00% 2.0% 527 527 1054
720 (Medical Office Building) 15,438       Square Feet 525 50% 50% 11.00% 2.0% 229 229 458
710 (General Office Building) 69,576       Square Feet 545 50% 50% 11.00% 2.0% 238 238 476
310 (Hotel) 120             Keys 701 50% 50% 11.00% 2.0% 306 306 612
Commercial/Flex 12,000 Square Feet - - - - - - - -
5-6 221 (Multifamily Housing (Mid-Rise) - Not Close to Rail Trans 150             Dwelling Unit 669 50% 50% 11.00% 2.0% 292 292 584
7 Athlete Support 3,900          Square Feet 133 50% 50% 11.00% 2.0% 58 58 116
Net Weekday Daily Peak Hour Trips 1,881       1,881       3,762                                             
1 221 (Multifamily Housing (Mid-Rise) - Not Close to Rail Trans 72                Dwelling Unit 27 23% 77% 14.40% 2.0% 5 18 23
2 Athlete Support 6,126          Square Feet 20 73% 27% 14.40% 2.0% 12 4 16
Athlete Support 35,438       Square Feet 113 73% 27% 14.40% 2.0% 69 26 95
720 (Medical Office Building) 15,438       Square Feet 50 78% 22% 14.40% 2.0% 32 9 41
710 (General Office Building) 69,576       Square Feet 86 88% 12% 14.40% 2.0% 64 9 73
310 (Hotel) 120             Keys 41 52% 48% 14.40% 2.0% 18 16 34
Commercial/Flex 12,000 Square Feet - - - - - - - -
5-6 221 (Multifamily Housing (Mid-Rise) - Not Close to Rail Trans 150             Dwelling Unit 57 23% 77% 14.40% 2.0% 11 37 48
7 Athlete Support 3,900          Square Feet 12 73% 27% 14.40% 2.0% 8 3 11
Net Weekday AM Peak Hour Trips 219           122           341                                                 
1 221 (Multifamily Housing (Mid-Rise) - Not Close to Rail Trans 72                Dwelling Unit 27 64% 36% 7.50% 1.8% 16 9 25
2 Athlete Support 6,126          Square Feet 16 24% 76% 7.50% 1.8% 3 11 14
Athlete Support 35,438       Square Feet 92 24% 76% 7.50% 1.8% 20 64 84
720 (Medical Office Building) 15,438       Square Feet 53 30% 70% 7.50% 1.8% 14 34 48
710 (General Office Building) 69,576       Square Feet 82 16% 84% 7.50% 1.8% 12 63 75
310 (Hotel) 120             Keys 56 51% 49% 7.50% 1.8% 26 25 51
Commercial/Flex 12,000 Square Feet - - - - - - - -
5-6 221 (Multifamily Housing (Mid-Rise) - Not Close to Rail Trans 150             Dwelling Unit 57 64% 36% 7.50% 1.8% 33 19 52
7 Athlete Support 3,900          Square Feet 10 24% 76% 7.50% 1.8% 2 7 9
Net Weekday PM Peak Hour Trips 126           232           358                                                 
3
3
3
% Entering3 % 
Exiting3
Internal 
Capture4
Shift to Transit / 
Walk / Bike 5
Trips 
Entering
Trips 
Exiting
Trips 
Entering
Trips 
Exiting New AM Peak Hour Trips
Parcel 
Number Land Use1 Number of 
Units Unit Type PM Peak Hour Trip 
Generation2
% Entering3 % 
Exiting3
Internal 
Capture4
Shift to Transit / 
Walk / Bike 5
New PM Peak Hour Trips
Parcel 
Number Land Use1 Number of 
Units Unit Type AM Peak Hour Trip 
Generation2
Utah Olympic Park
Trip Generation (Full Build Out)
Parcel 
Number Land Use1 Number of 
Units Unit Type Daily Peak Hour Trip 
Generation2 % Entering3 % 
Exiting3
Internal 
Capture4
Shift to Transit / 
Walk / Bike 5
Trips 
Entering
Trips 
Exiting New Daily Peak Hour Trips
111
6910
6910
6900
2025DA AMENDMENTS EXHIBIT
SHEET
SEALDESIGNED BY:CHECKED BY:PROJECT No.:P.O. BOX 2664 | 2700 W. HOMESTEAD RD. STE 50,PARK CITY, UT 84098 | 435-649-9467
#DATEDESCRIPTION JARDRAWING BY:
NOT FORCONSTRUCTIONFOR REVIEW ONLYMD12/10/2512/10/25
X:\UTAHOLYMPICPARK\DWG\HOTEL\2025 DA AMENDMENT EXHIBITS\DA AMENDEMNTS EXHIBITS CIVIL.DWG
MD12/10/25
1 OF 1
CAUTION: NOTICE TO CONTRACTORTHE CONTRACTOR IS SPECIFICALLY CAUTIONED THAT THE LOCATION AND/OR ELVATION OFEXISTING UTILITIES AS SHOWN ON THESE PLAN IS BASED ON RECORDS OF THE VARIOUS UTILITYCOMPANIES AND, WHERE POSSIBLE, MEASUREMENTS TAKEN IN THE FIELD. THE INFORMATION ISNOT TO BE RELIED ON AS BEING EXACT OR COMPLETE. THE CONTRACTOR MUST CALL THELOCAL UTILITY LOCATION CENTER AT LEAST 48 HOURS BEFORE ANY EXCAVATION TO REQUESTEXACT FIELD LOCATIONS OF THE UTILITIES. IT SHALL BE THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THECONTRACTOR TO RELOCATE ALL EXISTING UTILITIES WHICH CONFLICT WITH THE PROPOSEDIMPROVEMENTS SHOWN ON THE PLANS.NNORTH
UTAH OLYMPIC PARKHOTEL2855 OLYMPIC PKWY.PARK CITY, UTAH
112
113
Utah Division of Wildlife Resources
1594 W. North Temple
Salt Lake City, UT 84116
(801) 538-4700, wildlife.utah.gov
 Report Number: jse_18075
Report Date: 2025-11-20 15:45:24
Utah Olympic Park
Location: Park City
Description: Proposed new Development at Utah Olympic Park, Park City
Project Area of Interest with a half-mile and two-mile radius.
Half-Mile Radius
Species
Name
Scientific
Name UWAP Status ESA Status
Last
Reported
Date
SDHM
Flammulated
Owl
Psiloscops
flammeolus
SGCN None 2021-06-13
NOT FOR CONSULTATION
114
Two-Mile Radius
Species
Name
Scientific
Name UWAP Status ESA Status
Last
Reported
Date
SDHM
Great Horned
Owl
Bubo virginianus None None 2014-07-13
Red-tailed Hawk Buteo
jamaicensis
None None 2013-04-22
Swainson's
Hawk
Buteo swainsoni None None 2007-06-01
Monarch
butterfly
Danaus
plexippus
SGCN None 2022-08-23
Full View
New Zealand
Mudsnail
Potamopyrgus
antipodarum
None None 2021-07-21
Mountain
Marshsnail
Stagnicola
montanensis
None None 1938
Bombus
appositus
None None 2023-07-26
Rocky
Mountainsnail
Oreohelix
strigosa
None None 2021-07-21
Western Bumble
Bee
Bombus
occidentalis
SGCN None 2022-08-04
NOT FOR CONSULTATION
115
Species
Name
Scientific
Name UWAP Status ESA Status
Last
Reported
Date
SDHM
Big-ear Radix Radix auricularia None None 2021-07-21
Ruddy Copper
Butterfly
Tharsalea
rubidus
SGCN None 2021-07-27
Silver-bordered
Fritillary
Boloria myrina
tollandensis
None None 2024-07-13
Glossy Valvata Valvata
humeralis
None None 2021-07-21
Silver-haired Bat Lasionycteris
noctivagans
None None 2006-06-23
Wasatch
Biscuitroot
Lomatium
bicolor
None None 2007-06-01
00:00:00
Sweet-marsh
Butterweed
Senecio
hydrophiloides
None None 2014-08-25
00:00:00
Small Bedstraw Galium trifidum None None 2009-08-13
00:00:00
Long-stalk
Starwort
Stellaria
longipes var.
monantha
None None 2007-06-01
00:00:00
Comb-leaf
Cinquefoil
Potentilla
gracilis var.
elmeri
None None 2007-06-01
00:00:00
Menzies' Pink Silene menziesii None None 2006-07-12
00:00:00
NOT FOR CONSULTATION
116
Species
Name
Scientific
Name UWAP Status ESA Status
Last
Reported
Date
SDHM
Wasatch
Fitweed
Corydalis
caseana ssp.
brachycarpa
SGCN None 2014-07-03
00:00:00
American
Redstart
Setophaga
ruticilla
None None 1869-08-16
Northern River
Otter
Lontra
canadensis
None None 1990-08-18
Turkey Vulture Cathartes aura None None 2001-04-02
Rubber Boa Charina bottae None None 2020-05-02
Speckled Dace Rhinichthys
osculus
None None 2023-09-29
Redside Shiner Richardsonius
balteatus
None None 2008-10-07
Common
Yellowthroat
Geothlypis
trichas
None None 1876
Eastern Kingbird Tyrannus
tyrannus
None None 1875-SU
Columbia
Spotted Frog
Rana luteiventris SGCN None 2009-05-05
Flammulated
Owl
Psiloscops
flammeolus
SGCN None 2021-06-13
NOT FOR CONSULTATION
117
Species
Name
Scientific
Name UWAP Status ESA Status
Last
Reported
Date
SDHM
American
Bittern
Botaurus
lentiginosus
SGIN None 2016-05-02
Bonneville
Cutthroat Trout
Oncorhynchus
clarkii utah
None None 2000
Definitions
State Status
SGCN, SGIN Species of greatest conservation need (SGCN) or the specialsubcategory, species of greatest Information need (SGIN), arelisted in the Utah Wildlife Action Plan (UWAP) and also included inthe Utah Field Guide
U.S. Endangered Species Act
LE A taxon that is listed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service as"endangered" with the probability of worldwide extinction
LT A taxon that is listed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service as"threatened" with becoming endangered
LE;XN An "endangered" taxon that is considered by the U.S. Fish andWildlife Service to be "experimental and nonessential" in itsdesignated use areas in Utah
C A taxon for which the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has on filesufficient information on biological vulnerability and threats tojustify it being a "candidate" for listing as endangered orthreatened
PT/PE A taxon "proposed" to be listed as "endangered" or "threatened" bythe U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Species Distribution and Habitat Suitability Models
Species distribution and habitat suitability models (SDHMs) can inform wildlife management decisions such as habitat
protection, enhancement, and restoration. They may also help assess environmental impacts by identifying species'habitats. When reevaluating SDHMs with new information, they can help identify or track changes or trends in habitatquality. SDHMs assess habitats' spatial arrangement and connectivity, identify crucial habitats, or describe the
environmental conditions a species selects. SDHMs provide an understanding of the impacts of invasive species spreadand identify suitable areas for species translocations/re-introductions.
SDHMs show a predicted suitable habitat for a species based on various biotic and abiotic environmental factors. Thesemodels may be useful for statewide evaluation but should not be considered verified species presence or absence. Fieldsurvey information should be utilized to verify the presence or absence of taxa when making species-specific decisions.
Models produced by the Utah Division of Wildlife Resources (DWR) were conducted using a blend of Generalized Linear
NOT FOR CONSULTATION
118
Models, Generalized Additive Models, Random Forest Models, Boosted Regression Tree Models, and Maximum EntropyModels.
Mitigation Strategies
Typical recommendations to consider and help guide project activities to avoid, minimize or mitigate impacts
on wildlife and their habitats from project disturbances are displayed below for some wildlife species found
within/near your project area.
Common Name Strategy
moose Avoid disturbance in crucial winter habitats Nov. 1 - May 15 and crucial
summer range May 15 - July 5. Consider voluntary mitigation if
avoidance is not possible or there is permanent habitat loss.
mule deer Avoid disturbance in crucial summer range during fawning May 15 - July
15. Avoid, minimize or mitigate impacts from large-scale development
that occur within crucial elk habitats. Voluntary mitigation is
recommended at a 4:1 ratio, meaning 4 acres of improved or conserved
habitat for every 1 acre of disturbance.
The DWR understands that mitigation strategies might conflict. Please reach out to DWR staff to develop strategies tominimize impacts on wildlife while still achieving project goals. Your project is located in the following UDWR region(s):
DWR Region Full
Name Regional Phone Impact Analysis
Biologist Email Phone
Central Region 801-491-5678 Josee Seamons jseamons@utah.gov 385-421-1277
This project area contains multiple valuable wildlife habitats, where standard recommendations may conflict or beoverburdensome. We strongly recommend reaching out to our team of experts for tailored/project-specific suggestions
and solutions and DWR staff may contact you.
Wildlife Action Plan
The Utah Wildlife Action Plan (UWAP) is Utah's guiding document for native species conservation. The DWR encouragesparties to use the UWAP in their environmental planning, as it provides a conservation framework to prevent futurelistings under the ESA.
Disclaimer
The information provided in this report is based on data existing in the Utah Division of Wildlife Resources' central
database at the time of the request. It should not be regarded as a final statement on the occurrence of any species on ornear the designated site, nor should it be considered a substitute for on-the-ground biological surveys. Moreover, becausethe Utah Division of Wildlife Resources' central database is continually updated, any given response is only appropriate for
its respective request.
The Utah DWR provides no warranty nor accepts any liability occurring from any incorrect, incomplete, or misleading dataor from any incorrect, incomplete, or misleading use of these data.
The results include a query of species tracked by the Utah Natural Heritage Program and Utah Division of WildlifeResources, which includes all species listed under the U.S. Endangered Species Act, species in the Utah Wildlife Action
NOT FOR CONSULTATION
119
Plan, and other species. Other significant wildlife values might also be present on the designated site.
For additional information about species listed under the Endangered Species Act and their Critical Habitats that may be
affected by activities in this area or for information about Section 7 consultation under the Endangered Species Act,please visit https://ecos.fws.gov/ipac/ or contact the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Utah Ecological Services Field Office
at (801) 975-3330 or utahfieldoffice_esa@fws.gov.
The "Not For Consultation" watermark is meant to inform users that this tool is not a substitute for the U.S. Fish andWildlife Service (USFWS) environmental review process. While this tool provides courtesy information on ESA species for
context, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is the authority on Information for Planning and Consultation EndangeredSpecies Act Reviews. Additionally, the Wildlife Habitat Analysis Tool provides information to assist in analysis but doesnot replace coordination and consultation with Utah Division of Wildlife Resource biologists who can often serve as an
expert resource for site-specific information.
Supplemental Data
Unmapped Corridors
Unmodeled Corridors: Present
Wildlife Habitat Information
Species Season Value Comments
Black Bear year-long crucial
Dusky Grouse year-long crucial
Moose year-long crucial Calving habitat.
Mule Deer summer crucial
Ruffed Grouse year-long substantial
Snowshoe Hare year-long substantial
White-Tailed Jackrabbit year-long
NOT FOR CONSULTATION
120
DEQ DERR Utah Petroleum Storage Tank Facilities
Description: This dataset is updated nightly via forklift from the DERR database which is continually
updated.This data layer contains coordinates of Facility PST sites. There can be multiple tanks for each
facility. Each storage tank is associated with a facility via the FacilityID (the number that uniquely identifies a
facility). The coordinate data have been created and utilized by the Utah Division of Environmental Response
and Remediation (DERR) for the plotting of Facility PST sites on maps depicting the state and several counties.
The data used to produce these maps have been reviewed by DERR staff and found to be adequate for DERR’s
purposes which require the depiction of general site locations. The accuracy of these locations may not be
sufficient for other purposes. Persons relaying upon these maps do so at their own risk. The DERR assumes no
responsibility or liability oft he accuracy of these points. Additional tank information can be found in these
related tables: CompliancePST, TankPST, and DEQMAP_LUST.More information can be found on the UGRC
data page for this layer:https://gis.utah.gov/data/environment/deq-land-related-contaminant-cleanup-sites/
Locname
WINTER SPORTS PARK
NOT FOR CONSULTATION
121
USDA NRCS Utah Soils
Description: Utah Soils is a subset of the more comprehensive Natural Resources Conservation Service
(NRCS) SSURGO database. The SSURGO database is a collection of 6 feature classes, one raster, 76 tables,
and 69 relationship classes that represent over a century's worth of soil data collected by the National
Cooperative Soil Survey. Utah Soils is a collection of the more widely used SSURGO soil attributes and SSURGO
MUPOLYGON geometry to provide users an overview of Utah soils data without the complexity of the SSURGO
database itself.
Area
Name
Area
Symbol
Farm
Class
Hydric
Classifi
cation -
Presen
ce
Hydrolo
gic
Group -
Domina
nt
Conditi
ons
Map
Unit
Name
Map
Unit
Key
Water
Table
Depth -
Annual
-
Minimu
m
Water
Table
Depth -
April -
June -
Minimu
m
Summit
Area,
Utah,
Parts of
Summit,
Salt Lake
and
Wasatch
Counties
UT613 Not
prime
farmland
0 B Parkcity-
Dromeda
ry
gravelly
loams, 30
to 70
percent
slopes
508164 None None
Summit
Area,
Utah,
Parts of
Summit,
Salt Lake
and
Wasatch
Counties
UT613 Not
prime
farmland
0 B Parkcity-
Dromeda
ry
gravelly
loams, 30
to 70
percent
slopes
508164 None None
NOT FOR CONSULTATION
122
Area
Name
Area
Symbol
Farm
Class
Hydric
Classifi
cation -
Presen
ce
Hydrolo
gic
Group -
Domina
nt
Conditi
ons
Map
Unit
Name
Map
Unit
Key
Water
Table
Depth -
Annual
-
Minimu
m
Water
Table
Depth -
April -
June -
Minimu
m
Summit
Area,
Utah,
Parts of
Summit,
Salt Lake
and
Wasatch
Counties
UT613 Not
prime
farmland
0 B Parkcity-
Dromeda
ry
gravelly
loams, 30
to 70
percent
slopes
508164 None None
Summit
Area,
Utah,
Parts of
Summit,
Salt Lake
and
Wasatch
Counties
UT613 Not
prime
farmland
0 C Horrocks-
Agassiz
very
cobbly
loams, 30
to 70
percent
slopes
508187 None None
Summit
Area,
Utah,
Parts of
Summit,
Salt Lake
and
Wasatch
Counties
UT613 Not
prime
farmland
0 C Horrocks-
Agassiz
very
cobbly
loams, 30
to 70
percent
slopes
508187 None None
Summit
Area,
Utah,
Parts of
Summit,
Salt Lake
and
Wasatch
Counties
UT613 Not
prime
farmland
0 B Parkcity-
Dromeda
ry
gravelly
loams, 15
to 30
percent
slopes
508203 None None
NOT FOR CONSULTATION
123
Moose Habitat
Species Season Comments Value
Moose year-long Calving habitat. crucial
Mule Deer Habitat
Comments Season Species Value
summer Mule Deer crucial
NOT FOR CONSULTATION
124
Mountain Biking and Hiking Trails
• Iron Bill and the Legacy Loop 
Trails were constructed prior to 
2013 as well as several other 
internal trails around the Nordic 
ski jumps as part of a way to 
promote more community access 
in and around the Utah Olympic 
Park.
125
Mountain Biking and Hiking Trails
• In 2016 the Moose Puddle and Yeti 
mountain bike trails were completed along 
with the Olympic Connecter trail establishing 
a larger internal loop as well connecting 
Kimball Junction to the larger Wasatch back 
trail network and vice versa, through the 
Utah Olympic Park.
126
Mountain Biking and Hiking Trails
• After consulting with the mountain biking 
community, in 2025, Gold Pedal Mile, A 
directional flow trail was constructed, 
creating both an intermediate downhill loop 
and a shorter ADA friendly flow loop using 
the existing Moose Puddle trail as the 
access trail.
• The Sasquatch Hiking trail was created in 
2025 incorporating some remaining sections 
of the original Yeti mountain bike trail as a 
way to give hikers a dedicated way to enjoy 
West Peak.
Gold 
Pedal 
Mile
Sasquatch 
Hiking 
Trail
Moose 
Puddle 
127
Utah Olympic Legacy 
Foundation: A Living Legacy
The Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation preserves an  
Olympic history, provides a robust economic contribution to  
the state, and creates dynamic opportunities for athletes, staff, 
visitors, and the community.
411 East South Temple Street 
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 
801-585-5618   I   gardner.utah.edu
Melanie Beagley 
Public Policy Analyst
Praopan Pratoomchat 
Senior Research Economist
Nate Lloyd 
Director of Economic Research
Laura Summers 
Director of Industry Research 
July 2024
128
129
gardner.utah.edu   I   July 2024INFORMED DECISIONS TM 1    
Analysis in Brief 
The Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation (UOLF) preserves 
Utah’s Olympic history as a living legacy by managing three 
world-class, multi-use Olympic venues (the Utah Olympic Oval, 
Utah Olympic Park, and Soldier Hollow Nordic Center), as well 
as Park City Ski and Snowboard (PCSS). These venues draw 
Utahns as well as national and international athletes, delegates, 
and tourists who contribute to Utah's economy.
Beyond its economic contribution, UOLF helps meet 
community needs by offering an array of recreation opportunities 
for all ages and abilities, promoting healthy lifestyles through 
sports programs, and supporting local community development, 
volunteerism, and tourism through major international events.
Key Findings
• Robust economic contribution – Annual spending by 
UOLF and visitors to the three primary Olympic venues 
contributes an estimated 1,045 jobs, $78 million in GDP , 
and $132 million in output per year (total intermediate and 
final industry sales) from direct, indirect, and induced 
economic contributions.
• Out-of-state visitors – UOLF hosts over 90,000 out-of-state 
visitors annually, including athletes, spectators, and the 
general public. Athletes visit to train at the venues and/or 
compete in international, national, and regional competitions.
• Visitor spending – Visitors to the three primary Olympic 
venues spent an estimated $11.9 million in fiscal year 2023. 
Significant portions of this spending are on 
accommodations, local transportation, food services, arts, 
entertainment, and recreation.
• UOLF Sources and Uses of Funds – UOLF relies on revenue 
from operations, sponsorships, donations, grants, and 
Legacy Fund earnings to cover operating expenses. State 
appropriations to UOLF, averaging $14.3 million annually in 
the last six years, are not used to cover operating expenses 
but help fund nearly all capital expenditures.
• Community benefits – Community events, sports programs, 
and volunteer opportunities help to provide long-term 
individual and societal benefits to Utah communities. The 
Olympic venues serve as both official training centers and 
community event and recreation centers.
• Y outh opportunities – UOLF’s youth-focused programs 
serve close to 2,500 youth. UOLF increases sports and 
recreation participation by providing subsidized sporting 
opportunities. More than half of the youth that participate 
in UOLF scholarship  opportunities (54%) live in 
economically disadvantaged  communities. Close to half 
(45%) are from diverse communities.
• Readiness for the 2034 Olympic and Paralympic Winter 
Games – UOLF keeps Utah’s Olympic  legacy alive by 
maintaining and improving the three primary Olympic 
venues and promoting Utah as a destination for national  
and international athletes, delegates, and tourists.
Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation: A Living Legacy
Out-of-State Visitors to the Three Primary Olympic  
Venues and Associated Visitor Spending, FY2023
Note: The 91,615 out-of-state visitors represent a lower-bound estimate since data only 
capture general public visitors who sign a waiver when visiting a venue. Out-of-state visitors 
who do not sign a waiver also contribute to Utah's economy through their spending.
Source: Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute analysis of UOLF and Omnitrak data
33.6% Accommodation
25.3% Food Services
10.9% Arts,
entertainment
and recreation
9.7% Local
Transportation
8.1% Retail
6.0% Gasoline
6.4% Groceries
$11.9
Million
$11.9 Million
Visitor Spending at
the Three Primary
Olympic Venues
Athletes
9,862 | (11%)
Spectators
3,569 | (4%)
 
91,615
Total
Out-of-State
Visitors
General Public
78,184 | (85%)
Summary of Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation Economic 
Contributions, FY 2023 
(Jobs and Millions of Current 2023 Dollars)
Economic 
Indicator
Direct 
Contribution1 Multiplier2
Total 
Contribution2
Jobs 660 1.4x – 1.8x 930 – 1,160
GDP $47.4 1.5x – 1.7x $73.3 – $82.4
Output $58.5 2.1x – 2.4x $124.7 – $138.9
See Table 5 for notes. Key findings reference the midpoint of the estimated range of total 
contributions.
Sources: Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute and REMI PI+ economic model
130
July 2024   I   gardner.utah.edu INFORMED DECISIONS TM2    
Table of Contents
Introduction  .........................................  3
Direct Economic Contributions ........................  3
Olympic Venues ......................................  4
Total Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation Economic
Contributions ......................................... 6
Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation Sources and 
Uses of Funds  ......................................  7
Benefits to the Community ............................  9
Appendix 1: Research Methods ....................... 14
Appendix 2: Trainings and Competitions 
Hosted at Utah Olympic Venues .................... 15
Appendix 3: Elite Athletic Events Hosted at Utah 
Olympic Venues ................................... 16
Appendix 4: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation 
Mission/Values/SPORT Pillars ....................... 20
Figures
Figure 1: Utah's Olympic Venues ............................ 4
Figure 2: Timeline of Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation 
Development and Key Events, 1989–2023 ................ 4
Figure 3: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation Average 
Compensation Compared to State and National 
Compensation, FY 2023 .................................. 5
Figure 4: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation Visitor 
Spending by Type of Expenditure, FY 2023 ................ 6
Figure 5:  Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation Total 
Operating Revenue, FY 2021-2023 ........................ 8
Figure 6: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation Average 
Annual Operating Revenue by Category, FY 2021-2023. . . . 8
Figure 7: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation Net Assets, 
FY 2020-2023 ............................................ 8
Figure 8: Impacts of Sport Participation on Mental, 
Physical, and Social Well-Being .......................... 10
Figure 9: Share of Utah 6th Grade Students Engaging in 
Physical Activity, 2019–2023. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Figure 10: Share of Utah Students in 9th-12th Grade with 
Obesity, 1999-2023 ..................................... 10
Figure 11: Share of Utah Adults Ages 18-25 Regularly 
Experiencing Stress, Depression, or Problems with 
Emotions, 2011-2022  ................................... 10
Figure 12: Number of Youth Served through Utah 
Olympic Legacy Foundation’s Youth Programs, 
2019-2023 .............................................. 11
Figure 13: Examples of Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation 
Youth Programs, 2018-2023 ............................. 11
Figure 14: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation Scholarship 
Recipients by Race/Ethnicity, 2023 ....................... 11
Figure 15: Share of Utahns Reporting Social Isolation by 
Grade (Youth) and Age Group (Adults), 2022 and 2023 ... 12
Figure 16: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation 
International Delegate Visits ............................. 13
Tables
Table 1: Employment by Entity, FY 2023 ..................... 3
Table 2: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation Operating 
Expenses Excluding Compensation and Depreciation, 
FY 2023. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Table 3: Capital Expenditures, FY 2022-2023. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Table 4: Number of Visitors by Type and Venue, FY 2023 ..... 6
Table 5: Summary of Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation 
Economic Contributions, FY 2023 ......................... 7
Table 6: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation Primary 
Sources and Uses of Funds ............................... 7
Table 7: Winter Sports Venue Appropriations from Utah 
Legislature to the Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation,
 FY 2019-2024 ............................................ 8
Table 8: One-time State Appropriations for Utah Olympic 
Legacy Foundation Capital Expenditures, FY 2023. . . . . . . . . 8
Table 9: Number of Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation and Park 
City Ski and Snowboard Sport Participants, 
2019-2023 .............................................. 10
Table 10: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation Youth 
Scholarship Participation by City/Town, FY 2023 ......... 11
Table 11: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation Spending 
on Healthy Communities and Youth Scholarships, 
2018-2022 .............................................. 12
Table 12: Number of Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation 
Volunteers, 2019-2023 (combined) ...................... 12
131
gardner.utah.edu   I   July 2024INFORMED DECISIONS TM 3    
Introduction
The Utah Legislature passed a joint resolution in 1994 creating 
the Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation (UOLF) 1 to manage and 
maintain facilities used during the 2002 Olympic and Paralympic 
Winter Games.2 In fulfilling this responsibility, UOLF protects the 
public’s investment, preserves a historic Olympic legacy, and 
provides a robust economic contribution to the state of Utah.
UOLF’s economic contribution consists of economic activity 
generated by the organization and visitor spending at the 
Olympic venues it maintains (as well as the associated indirect 
and induced effects). UOLF and Olympic venue visitor spending 
contribute $47.4 million in gross domestic product (GDP) to 
the state of Utah. The associated indirect and induced effects 
extend this to an estimated $73.3 to $82.4 million. Estimated 
total contributions, measured by output (industry sales), range 
from $124.7 to $138.9 million.
In addition to its economic contribution, UOLF helps meet 
community needs through the fulfillment of its vision, mission, and 
philosophical approach to sports (Appendix 4). UOLF advances 
training opportunities for athletes of all levels through its official 
designated U.S. Olympic Training venues (Figure 1), offers an 
array of winter and summer recreation and tourism opportunities 
for all ages and abilities, helps to promote healthy lifestyles and 
well-being through sports programs and participation, and hosts 
events supporting local community development, volunteerism, 
and major international competitions and delegations. 
About the Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation
As illustrated in its 20-year plus history, UOLF continues 
to expand its reach and mission by providing sporting 
opportunities to Utahns and serving as a community anchor to 
venue communities and underrepresented youth (Figure 2). 
Looking ahead, UOLF plays a pivotal role in ensuring 
Utah’s readiness for the 2034 Olympic and Paralympic Winter 
Games and excellence as a host site. UOLF’s management 
and maintenance of Olympic facilities, training elite athletes 
and coaches, and promoting Utah as a premier winter sports 
destination play a significant role in positioning Utah as a host 
for the 2034 Winter Games. Its role will continue to grow in 
importance as the 2034 Winter Games approach.3
Olympic Venues
UOLF manages three world-class, multi-use Olympic venues 
including the Utah Olympic Oval (UOO) in Kearns, Utah Olympic 
Park (UOP) in Park City, and Soldier Hollow Nordic Center (SOHO) 
in Midway (Figure 1). These venues were built for the Salt Lake 
City 2002 Winter Games. UOLF has maintained the venues as 
elite athletic training facilities and community assets since the 
2002 Winter Games. 
Park City Ski and Snowboard (PCSS), a ski and snowboarding 
sports training club, operates as a limited liability company 
(LLC) under UOLF.
Over 80% of Utahns support 
the return of the Olympic and 
Paralympic Winter Games.
4
Direct Economic Contributions
By maintaining and enhancing its winter sports venues, 
UOLF not only contributes to Utah being a winter sports 
capital but also contributes to Utah’s economy. The three 
Olympic venues (UOO, UOP , and SOHO) allow UOLF to host 
national and international athletic teams and events as well 
as lead community sports development initiatives. Athletes, 
spectators, and the general public all use the three venues. 
UOLF’s economic contributions include capital spending, non-
capital operating expenditures (including compensation), and 
visitor spending at each venue.
UOLF’s economic footprint consists of economic activity 
directly related to the organization, as well as indirect and 
induced effects created by these “direct effects. ” Indirect effects 
are associated with local firms that supply inputs to the direct 
economic activity, and induced effects are associated with 
household consumption generated by direct and indirect effects. 
The direct effects consist of UOLF’s employment and spending.
Employment
UOLF employed 916 individuals in Fiscal Year (FY) 2023 (283 
exempt, full-time, and part-time staff and 633 seasonal staff ). 
Many seasonal employees work an average number of hours 
far below the average hours worked by exempt, full-time, 
and part-time employees. To model economic contributions, 
Gardner Institute’s research team adjusted seasonal employee 
counts to derive the exempt/full-time/part-time equivalent and 
reported these in the “Adjusted Seasonal” column of Table 1.  
Table 1 shows UOLF’s total actual and adjusted employment. 
See Appendix 1 for additional reasoning and adjustment details. 
UOLF’s fiscal year begins May 1 and concludes on April 30. 
Therefore, FY 2023 data are from the year ending April 30, 2023.
Table 1: Employment by Entity, FY 2023
Exempt/
Full-time/
Part-time Seasonal1 Total
Adjusted 
Seasonal
Adjusted 
Total
UOLF2 236 486 722 117 353
PCSS3 47 147 194 22 69
Total 283 633 916 138 422
Notes: 
1. Seasonal counts reported by UOLF. 
2. UOLF counts include employees located at UOLF headquarters as well as those at each 
venue: Utah Olympic Park, Utah Olympic Oval, and Soldier Hollow Nordic Center 
3. PCSS counts include employees of Park City Ski and Snowboard 
Source: Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute analysis of data provided by the Utah Olympic 
Legacy Foundation
132
July 2024   I   gardner.utah.edu INFORMED DECISIONS TM4    
Utah Olympic Oval 
Utah Olympic Oval (UOO) focuses on developing and 
growing ice sports participation among Utahns and is an official 
U.S. Olympic & Paralympic Committee (USOPC) Training Site. 
The five-acre venue hosts Utah’s only 400-meter speed skating 
oval, two international-sized ice sheets, and a state-of-the-art 
four-lane 442-meter running track. It is also the headquarters 
of US Speedskating. UOO caters to public skating, hockey, 
figure skating, speedskating, curling, running/track activities, 
educational programs, and various community and private 
events. The facility is in Kearns (Salt Lake County), 16 miles west 
of Salt Lake City.
Utah Olympic Park 
Utah Olympic Park (UOP) focuses on developing and 
growing winter sports participation among Utahns and is an 
official USOPC Training Site. The 400-acre venue hosts one of 
only three sliding tracks in North America, six Nordic ski jumps, 
the Spencer F. Eccles Olympic Mountain Center and Freestyle 
Pool, a 2002 Winter Games museum and the Alf Engen Ski 
Museum, and several adventure activities. It serves as a hub 
for international, national, and regional athletic training 
sessions and competitions while also offering opportunities 
for corporate events and community gatherings. UOP is in 
Park City (Summit County), 25 miles east of Salt Lake City. 
Soldier Hollow Nordic Center 
Soldier Hollow Nordic Center (SOHO) is a multifaceted 
venue for outdoor activities of all seasons. It is an official 
USOPC training site and the national headquarters of U.S. 
Biathlon.
Olympic Venues Figure 1: Utah Olympic Venues 84
40
Salt Lake City
It features a 31-kilometer trail system for cross-country skiing 
and snowshoeing in the winter and mountain biking, hiking, 
and equestrian use in the summer. The center also hosts a 
tubing park and state-of-the-art biathlon range suitable for 
World Cup competitions. The venue’s Competition Center 
supports major events, ranging from the U.S. Cross Country 
Skiing Championships to the Soldier Hollow Sheepdog 
Championships. Soldier Hollow is in Midway (Wasatch County). 
Park City Ski and Snowboard
Park City Ski and Snowboard (PCSS) is a winter sports club that 
offers ski and snowboarding training programs to over 1,000 
youth. As one of North America’s preeminent winter sports 
clubs, PCSS delivers comprehensive year-round programs for all 
skill levels, ranging from fundamental to high-end competition 
teams across various ski and snowboard disciplines. PCSS 
athletes undergo training at diverse resorts and facilities, 
including UOP and Soldier Hollow. It operates out of Park City.
$59 million tax 
increment bond 
pays for Olympic 
venues
Soldier Hollow operates 
independently of UOLF
New UOLF focus on youth sport development 
and expanded public use of Olympic facilities
Utah successfully 
hosts 19th 
Olympic and  
Paralympic 
Winter Games
UOLF assumes 
ownership and operation 
responsibilities of Olympic 
venues: Utah Olympic 
Park, Utah Olympic Oval, 
and Soldier Hollow  
Nordic Center
Utah Legislature 
Joint Resolution 
creating Utah 
Athletic  
Foundation  
(dba UOLF)
Figure 2: Timeline of Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation Development and Key Events, 1989–2023
1989 2015 2017 20201994 2004 20142002 20122006 2016 20192018 2021 2023
Utah Olympic 
Exploratory 
Committee 
(UOEC) report 
declares Utah 
“ready, willing, 
and able to host 
another Winter 
Games”
New Spence Eccles 
Olympic Freestyle 
Pool opens at 
Utah Olympic Park 
which creates a 
new discipline for 
athlete training
State Legislature (S.C.R.9) 
encourages Utah to remain 
“ready, willing, and able” to host 
another Olympic Game 
Grand opening of 
4-story residence 
at Utah Olympic 
Park facility
Soldier Hollow returns to 
UOLF control
Park City Ski & Snowboard is 
formed as a subsidiary of UOLF
UOLF launches Healthy Communities 
program at the Utah Olympic Oval
Addition of Kearns Athletic  
Training Community Event Center to 
the Utah Olympic Oval
Park City Ski 
and Snowboard 
enhances 
its Youth 
Development 
division
Spencer F. 
Eccles Olympic 
Mountain 
Center opens to 
advance alpine 
and freestyle 
ski training and 
competition
Opening of  
Hyeway training 
center Healthy 
Communities 
program expands  
to Utah Olympic 
Park and Soldier 
Hollow Nordic 
Center
UOLF launches coach 
development initiative
133
gardner.utah.edu   I   July 2024INFORMED DECISIONS TM 5    
community and sports events, insurance, repairs, maintenance, 
and other non-compensation operating expenses in FY 2023. 
The largest line items include program and sporting event 
costs, followed by costs associated with utilities and occupancy. 
Capital Expenditures
In FY 2022 and FY 2023, UOLF spent an estimated $9.1 
and $15.0 million, respectively, on capital expenditures. 
Capital-intensive projects tend to last more than one year 
and lead to inconsistent capital expenditure amounts across 
years. Therefore, the research team averaged annual capital 
expenditures from both years to create a representative amount 
of annual UOLF spending on capital projects. 8 Recent capital 
projects include an expanded competition management 
building at Soldier Hollow and enhanced snowmaking and 
water distribution systems at multiple venues. 
Visitor Spending
UOLF’s economic footprint extends beyond its direct 
economic activity (as measured by operating and capital 
expenditures) to include the spending of out-of-state visitors 
at Utah’s Olympic venues.9 UOLF hosts over 90,000 out-of-state 
visitors annually, including athletes, spectators, and the general 
Table 3: Capital Expenditures, FY 2022-2023
(Millions of Nominal Dollars)
Capital Expenditures FY 2022 FY 2023
2-year 
Average
Building and Construction $3.8 $3.0 $3.4
Facility Improvements $5.0 $11.4 $8.2
Vehicles $0.4 $0.6 $0.5
Total $9.1 $15.0 $12.0
Note: Building and construction includes land improvement and construction in progress. 
Facility improvements include furniture, fixtures, and equipment.
Source: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation
Table 2: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation Operating 
Expenses Excluding Compensation and Depreciation, 
FY 2023
 Expenditure Line Items Millions
Program + Sport Events $3.5
Utilities + Occupancy $3.0
Insurance $1.9
Maintenance $1.2
Legal + Advertising + IT $0.9
Bank + Credit Card Fees $0.6
Mapped Subtotal $11.1
*Misc. + Cost of Inventory + Other $2.3
Total $13.4
Note: *Line items not mapped to a specific industry for economic contribution 
modeling include miscellaneous, cost of inventory, fundraising costs, office expenses, 
travel/business meals and conferences, staff training and human resource costs, 
telecommunication costs, concessionaires, and fuel.
Source: Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute analysis of FY 2023 expenditure data provided by 
Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation
Figure 3: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation Average 
Compensation Compared to State and National 
Compensation, FY 2023 
(2023 dollars)
Source: Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute analysis of data from Utah Olympic Legacy 
Foundation and the REMI PI+ economic model
$95
$100
$105
$110
$115
$120
$125
$130Millions $108.3
2021
$101.7
2020
$111.8
2022
$127.7
2023
37.3% | ($11.3)
Sponsorships,
donations and
grants*
29.6% | ($9.0)
Public programs
and activities 21.0% | ($6.4)
Youth sport programs
8.5% | ($2.6)
Olympic venue
operations and external
athlete training
3.6% | ($1.1)
Sport events and
community engagement
33.6% Accommodation
25.3% Food Services10.9% Arts,
entertainment
and recreation
9.7% Local
Transportation
8.1% Retail
6.0% Gasoline
6.4% Groceries
$33,178
$53,342
$19,235
$39,284
$27,086
$50,779
$0
$10,000
$20,000
$30,000
$40,000
$50,000
$60,000
711 Performing Arts, Spectator
Sports, and Related Industries
61 Educational Services;
private
UOLF and PCSS Utah U.S.
$0
$5
$10
$15
$20
$25
$30
$35
$40
$45
$20.4
2021
$29.0
2022
$41.9
2023
Millions
24.9% 24.6% 21.9%
Physically active
all 7 days
42.1% 41.2% 37.6%
Walk or ride a
bike to school
50.3%
64.7% 67.8%
Spends 2 or more
hours per school
day on screens
2019 2021 2023
6.4%
0.0%
2.0%
4.0%
6.0%
8.0%
10.0%
12.0%
1999 2004 2009 2014 2019
5.4%
10.2%
18.7%
41.7%
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
30%
35%
40%
45%
50%
55%
60%
65%
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
5% Other
2% Native Hawaiian
1% Black
7% Asian
9% N/A
21% Hispanic
55% White
$11.9
Million
According to the North American Industry Classification 
System (NAICS) and the Utah Department of Workforce Services, 
UOLF’s employment aligns with two industries: (1) Promoters of 
Performing Arts, Sports, and Similar Events with Facilities (NAICS 
711310) and (2) Sports and Recreation Instruction (NAICS 611620). 
Compensation and Other Operating Expenses
UOLF spent $15.4 million on compensation (wages and 
benefits) and $13.4 million on utilities, community and sports 
events, insurance, repairs, maintenance, and other non-
compensation operating expenses in FY 2023. The $13.4 million 
excludes depreciation expenses. Total compensation represents 
payroll and benefits to all employees, including exempt, full-
time, part-time, and seasonal employees. 
At both state and national levels, compensation in the 
“Promoters of Performing Arts, Sports, and Similar Events with 
Facilities” industry is considerably lower than other sectors. 
However, average compensation among UOLF employees 
compares higher than both state and national industry 
averages. Overall, UOLF compensates 172% of Utah’s industry 
average and 122% of the nation’s industry average (Figure 3). 
This likely results from UOLF employing a skilled workforce that 
is more niche than the industry comparison.5 
In the “Sports and Recreation Instruction” industry, Park City 
Ski and Snowboard compensates its employees at 136% of 
Utah’s industry average and 105% of the U.S. industry average.6 
The higher compensation from UOLF entities creates jobs and 
boosts output in the local economy, which is indicated by a 
high compensation multiplier. 
In terms of other operating expenses, the research team 
mapped $11.1 million (83.1%) of UOLF non-compensation 
and non-depreciation operating expenses to industries for 
economic contribution modeling.7 This amount reflects utilities, 
134
July 2024   I   gardner.utah.edu INFORMED DECISIONS TM6    
Table 4: Number of Visitors by Type and Venue, FY 2023
Type Number of Visitors
Athletes Out-of-State Athletes
UOP Trainings 802
UOP Competitions 602
UOO Competitions 2,428
SOHO Competitions 6,030
Spectators Out-of-State Spectators
UOP Spectators 470
UOO Spectators 539
SOHO Spectators 2,560
General Public Out-of-State Participants
UOP Waiver participants 56,025
UOO Waiver participants 17,897
SOHO Waiver participants 4,262
Total Out-of-State Visitors 91,615
Notes: See Appendix 1 for additional details about the estimation methodology. Number 
of visitors for training and competition was recorded from June 2022 to May 2023. The 
number of general public visitors was recorded for the fiscal year from May 1, 2022, to 
April 30, 2023.
Source: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation
Figure 4: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation Visitor 
Spending by Type of Expenditure, FY 2023
Note: Air transportation spending has been omitted.
Source: Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute analysis of UOLF and Omnitrak data
$95
$100
$105
$110
$115
$120
$125
$130Millions $108.3
2021
$101.7
2020
$111.8
2022
$127.7
2023
37.3% | ($11.3)
Sponsorships,
donations and
grants*
29.6% | ($9.0)
Public programs
and activities 21.0% | ($6.4)
Youth sport programs
8.5% | ($2.6)
Olympic venue
operations and external
athlete training
3.6% | ($1.1)
Sport events and
community engagement
33.6% Accommodation
25.3% Food Services10.9% Arts,
entertainment
and recreation
9.7% Local
Transportation
8.1% Retail
6.0% Gasoline
6.4% Groceries
$33,178
$53,342
$19,235
$39,284
$27,086
$50,779
$0
$10,000
$20,000
$30,000
$40,000
$50,000
$60,000
711 Performing Arts, Spectator
Sports, and Related Industries
61 Educational Services;
private
UOLF and PCSS Utah U.S.
$0
$5
$10
$15
$20
$25
$30
$35
$40
$45
$20.4
2021
$29.0
2022
$41.9
2023
Millions
24.9% 24.6% 21.9%
Physically active
all 7 days
42.1% 41.2% 37.6%
Walk or ride a
bike to school
50.3%
64.7% 67.8%
Spends 2 or more
hours per school
day on screens
2019 2021 2023
6.4%
0.0%
2.0%
4.0%
6.0%
8.0%
10.0%
12.0%
1999 2004 2009 2014 2019
5.4%
10.2%
18.7%
41.7%
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
30%
35%
40%
45%
50%
55%
60%
65%
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
5% Other
2% Native Hawaiian
1% Black
7% Asian
9% N/A
21% Hispanic
55% White
$11.9
Million
public. Athletes visit to train at the venues and/or compete in 
international, national, and regional competitions. See Appendix 
2 for a list of competitions hosted at the Olympic venues. UOLF 
data allow for determining athlete counts and origin. 
Many spectators also attend UOLF-sponsored competitions 
but not all come from out-of-state. UOLF does not collect 
spectator origin data, so these counts are estimated using 
conservative assumptions provided by UOLF leadership (see 
Appendix 1 for additional details). 
Most visitors, however, are members of the general public 
who take part in a variety of venue activities. These counts 
represent out-of-state visitors who signed a waiver to use one 
of the facilities. While they do not represent unique individuals, 
they represent unique visits, each involving a certain amount of 
spending. Not all visitors participate in activities that require a 
waiver; therefore, the counts conservatively estimate the number 
of general public visitors. For example, the Olympic venues 
often host large out-of-state corporate groups who do not sign 
waivers but who contribute to Utah's economy through their 
spending. Because waiver signers include their location of origin, 
the research team includes only out-of-state visitors who sign a 
waiver when modeling the economic impact of visitor spending. 
Table 4 provides a summary of  these out-of-state visitors by type 
and venue. In-state residents visit the Olympic venues as well; 
however, their associated visitor spending represents recirculated 
economic activity and not net new economic activity to the state.
UOLF collects data on the duration of athletic trainings and 
competitions hosted at the Olympic venues. The research team 
assumes the duration of these events matches the length of 
stay for athletes and associated spectators. The research team 
also assumes the out-of-state general public spends one day 
visiting the respective local area when participating in venue 
activities. While data do not provide reasons behind the visits, 
the one-day assumption acknowledges that at least some 
portion of economic activity associated with these out-of-state 
visits can be attributed to the venues. 
Per visitor per day spending totals and the associated 
spending patterns are generated using data provided by 
Omnitrak (see Appendix 1 for additional details). FY 2023 visitor 
spending at the Olympic venues totals an estimated $11.9 
million, with significant portions allocated to accommodations 
(34%), food services (25%), arts, entertainment, and recreation 
(11%), and local transportation (10%) (Figure 4).
Total Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation Economic 
Contributions 
UOLF’s overall contribution to the Utah economy consists of 
visitor spending at the Olympic venues and associated impacts, 
UOLF’s direct economic activity related to their employment 
and spending, as well as indirect and induced effects caused 
by its direct economic activity. The indirect and induced effects 
are like ripple effects extending through Utah businesses 
and households, creating “multiplier effects. ” The economic 
contributions of UOLF can be described by these multipliers 
and the various economic indicators, as shown in Table 5. 
Employment – In FY 2023, UOLF employed 916 individuals. 
UOLF’s adjusted employee headcount totaled 422 after 
deriving the exempt/full-time/part-time equivalent for 
seasonal employees (Table 1). UOLF and visitor spending can be 
denominated in jobs, resulting in an additional 238 estimated 
direct jobs or 660 direct jobs in total. UOLF’s direct employment 
and spending, as well as visitor spending contributed to the 
creation of 930-1,160 jobs in Utah’s economy, implying an 
employment multiplier between 1.4x and 1.8x.  This means 
every job created by UOLF and visitor spending contributes to 
another 0.4 to 0.8 jobs in Utah’s economy.
135
gardner.utah.edu   I   July 2024INFORMED DECISIONS TM 7    
Compensation – UOLF paid $15.4 million in compensation. 
Converting other direct effects (such as UOLF’s non-
compensation expenses and visitor spending at the Olympic 
venues) to compensation results in an additional $8.1 million in 
direct compensation or $23.5 million in total direct compensation. 
UOLF’s economic footprint, therefore, contributes to an estimated 
$48.3 to $55.3 million of total compensation in Utah’s economy 
(with a multiplier of 2.1x to 2.4x). The large multipliers are driven 
by the higher compensations of UOLF employees compared to 
industry averages. 
GDP – Direct GDP , including UOLF’s total compensation, capital 
expenditures, and visitor spending, totals $47.4 million, contrib-
uting to an estimated $73.3 to $82.4 million of Utah’s GDP .
Output – Direct output, or spending, includes spending from 
UOLF and its associated visitors. Direct output totals $58.5 
million, contributing to total estimated output contributions 
of $124.7 to $138.9 million. Total estimated output represents 
sales across all industries.
Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation Sources and Uses of Funds
UOLF’s revenue originates from various sources. Some UOLF 
revenues are designated for specific activities and types of 
expenditures. This section examines the revenues derived from 
operating activities, other activities, and those appropriated 
by the Utah legislature. Table 6 shows the list of UOLF’s main 
sources and uses of funds. 
Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation Revenue from Operations
UOLF’s “operating revenue” comprises various funding 
streams directly and indirectly generated from UOLF operations. 
These funding sources support the organization’s operations, 
programs, and initiatives. While not directly generated from 
operations, funds from sponsorships, donations, and grants 
are treated as operating revenue in this analysis. From FY 2021-
2023, the revenue from sponsorships, private donations, service 
contracts, and retail sales across all venues increased from about 
$20 million in FY 2021 to nearly $42 million in FY 2023 (Figure 5). 
The largest share of UOLF operating revenue comes from 
sponsorship, donations, and grants (37.3%, averaged across FY 
2021-2023). Corporate sponsorship and private donations from 
individuals, businesses, and philanthropic organizations are 
significant sources of revenue for UOLF. These contributions are 
occasionally restricted to support specific programs, events, or 
capital projects. Public programs and activities (29.6%) generate 
the next largest source of revenue, which includes tours, shows, 
public use of facilities, rides, and retail sales from all venues. 
Other revenue sources include youth sports programs (21.0%), 
Olympic venue operation/external athlete training (8.5%), and 
sporting events and community engagement (3.6%) (Figure 6). 
Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation State Appropriations Funding  
State appropriations represent a major funding source for 
UOLF’s capital expenditures. This public investment ensures 
that training and competition facilities meet the technical 
specifications required to host high-level events, including the 
Olympic and Paralympic Games. Well-maintained venues also 
facilitate a developmental pipeline for athletes by providing 
facilities and programs that cater to all skill levels. For instance, 
Nordic ski jump athletes can progress from smaller hills like K10 
and K20 to the larger K120 meters as they develop. These capital 
investments also enable everyday Utahns to engage in winter 
sports providing recreational, health, and well-being benefits. 
The Utah Legislature appropriated nearly $95 million for winter 
sports facilities in recent years.10  This consists of $76.6 million one-
time appropriations and $18 million in ongoing appropriations 
(Table 7).11  The majority of these appropriations  ($85.7 million) 
was allocated to UOLF. Some local governments such as Weber 
County, West Valley City, and Provo City also operate winter sports 
facilities and received allocations.
Table 5: Summary of Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation 
Economic Contributions, FY 2023 
(Jobs and Millions of Current 2023 Dollars)
Economic 
Indicator
Direct 
Contribution1 Multiplier2
Total 
Contribution2
Jobs 660 1.4x – 1.8x 930 – 1,160
Compensation $23.5 2.1x – 2.4x $48.3 – $55.3
GDP $47.4 1.5x – 1.7x $73.3 – $82.4
Output $58.5 2.1x – 2.4x $124.7 – $138.9
Notes: 1) Direct contributions of jobs include total UOLF jobs as well as job equivalents 
of UOLF’s operating and capital expenditures and the venue’s visitor spending. 
Direct contributions of compensation include UOLF’s compensation paid as well as 
compensation equivalents of visitor spending and other UOLF spending. Job and 
compensation equivalents rely on formulas to convert UOLF and visitor spending into 
jobs and compensation, respectively.
2) Ranges come from different assumptions about the labor market. The lower numbers 
arise from a scenario that simulates UOLF competing locally and attracting labor from 
other employers in the same industry. The higher estimates derive from a scenario that 
simulates UOLF competing less with other employers in the industry.
Sources: Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute and REMI PI+ economic model
Table 6: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation Primary Sources 
and Uses of Funds
UOLF Revenue UOLF Expenditures
UOLF Operations, sponsorships, 
donations & grants
- Youth sport programs
- Public programs and activities
- Sport events and community 
engagement
- Olympic venue operations and 
external athlete trainings
- Sponsorships, donations, grant
Program & Supporting Services
- Olympic venue operations and 
external athlete training
- Youth sport programs
- Public programs and activities
- Sport events and community 
engagement
- Management and general
- Fundraising
State Appropriations
- One-time funds
- Ongoing funds
Capital Expenditures 
- Building and construction
- Facility improvements
- VehiclesOther Activities
- Investments
- Non-operating grants
Source: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation
136
July 2024   I   gardner.utah.edu INFORMED DECISIONS TM8    
The Utah Legislature appropriated $22 million in one-time 
funds to operate, renovate, and/or expand winter sports facilities 
in FY 2023. Of this amount, $19.6 million was allocated to UOLF. 
By October 2023, UOLF had spent $11.6 million (Table 8). Utah 
Olympic Park received the largest funding share, with $9 million 
used for the West Peak Mountain project (aimed at transforming 
the West Peak into an alpine and freestyle training mountain). The 
second largest share ($7.6 million) will help Soldier Hollow expand 
and renovate, while the next largest share ($1.5 million) will help 
Utah Olympic Park acquire upgraded snowmaking systems. Table 
8 provides a detailed breakdown of the FY 2023 appropriated 
amounts and the corresponding expenditures. 
Other Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation Financial Activities
Total expenses (from all program and supporting services) 
averaged $29.6 million between FY 2021 and 2023, resulting in an 
average annual net increase in net assets of $0.9 million (before 
accounting for changes in net assets with donor restrictions, 
interest expenses, investment returns, and other non‐operating 
grants). UOLF’s investment portfolio generates interest and 
dividend income, as well as unrealized and realized gains (or 
losses). Most years result in net positive investment returns and 
some occasionally result in annual net negative investment returns. 
Figure 5:  Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation Total 
Operating Revenue, FY 2021-2023
Note: Operating revenues displayed here include sponsorships, donations, and grants as 
well as the change in net assets without donor restrictions.
Source: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation’s Consolidated Financial Statements, FY 2021-2023
$95
$100
$105
$110
$115
$120
$125
$130Millions $108.3
2021
$101.7
2020
$111.8
2022
$127.7
2023
37.3% | ($11.3)
Sponsorships,
donations and
grants*
29.6% | ($9.0)
Public programs
and activities 21.0% | ($6.4)
Youth sport programs
8.5% | ($2.6)
Olympic venue
operations and external
athlete training
3.6% | ($1.1)
Sport events and
community engagement
33.6% Accommodation
25.3% Food Services10.9% Arts,
entertainment
and recreation
9.7% Local
Transportation
8.1% Retail
6.0% Gasoline
6.4% Groceries
$33,178
$53,342
$19,235
$39,284
$27,086
$50,779
$0
$10,000
$20,000
$30,000
$40,000
$50,000
$60,000
711 Performing Arts, Spectator
Sports, and Related Industries
61 Educational Services;
private
UOLF and PCSS Utah U.S.
$0
$5
$10
$15
$20
$25
$30
$35
$40
$45
$20.4
2021
$29.0
2022
$41.9
2023
Millions
24.9% 24.6% 21.9%
Physically active
all 7 days
42.1% 41.2% 37.6%
Walk or ride a
bike to school
50.3%
64.7% 67.8%
Spends 2 or more
hours per school
day on screens
2019 2021 2023
6.4%
0.0%
2.0%
4.0%
6.0%
8.0%
10.0%
12.0%
1999 2004 2009 2014 2019
5.4%
10.2%
18.7%
41.7%
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
30%
35%
40%
45%
50%
55%
60%
65%
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
5% Other
2% Native Hawaiian
1% Black
7% Asian
9% N/A
21% Hispanic
55% White
$11.9
Million
Figure 6: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation Average Annual 
Operating Revenue by Category, FY 2021-2023 
(Millions of Nominal Dollars)
Note: *Sponsorships, donations, and grants are considered operating revenues for this 
analysis and here include the change in net assets released from donor restrictions.
Source: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation Consolidated Financial Statements, FY 2021-2023
$95
$100
$105
$110
$115
$120
$125
$130Millions $108.3
2021
$101.7
2020
$111.8
2022
$127.7
2023
37.3% | ($11.3)
Sponsorships,
donations and
grants*
29.6% | ($9.0)
Public programs
and activities 21.0% | ($6.4)
Youth sport programs
8.5% | ($2.6)
Olympic venue
operations and external
athlete training
3.6% | ($1.1)
Sport events and
community engagement
33.6% Accommodation
25.3% Food Services10.9% Arts,
entertainment
and recreation
9.7% Local
Transportation
8.1% Retail
6.0% Gasoline
6.4% Groceries
$33,178
$53,342
$19,235
$39,284
$27,086
$50,779
$0
$10,000
$20,000
$30,000
$40,000
$50,000
$60,000
711 Performing Arts, Spectator
Sports, and Related Industries
61 Educational Services;
private
UOLF and PCSS Utah U.S.
$0
$5
$10
$15
$20
$25
$30
$35
$40
$45
$20.4
2021
$29.0
2022
$41.9
2023
Millions
24.9% 24.6% 21.9%
Physically active
all 7 days
42.1% 41.2% 37.6%
Walk or ride a
bike to school
50.3%
64.7% 67.8%
Spends 2 or more
hours per school
day on screens
2019 2021 2023
6.4%
0.0%
2.0%
4.0%
6.0%
8.0%
10.0%
12.0%
1999 2004 2009 2014 2019
5.4%
10.2%
18.7%
41.7%
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
30%
35%
40%
45%
50%
55%
60%
65%
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
5% Other
2% Native Hawaiian
1% Black
7% Asian
9% N/A
21% Hispanic
55% White
$11.9
Million
Annual total investment returns average $3.3 million across FY 
2021-2023.
After accounting for changes in net assets with donor restrictions, 
interest expenses, investment returns and other non-operating 
grants, the average annual net increase in net assets totals $8.6 
million. Net assets increased from $101.7 million at fiscal year-end 
2020 to $127.7 million at the end of FY 2023 (Figure 7).
Table 7: Winter Sports Venue Appropriations from Utah 
Legislature to the Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation,
FY 2019-2024
Fiscal Y ear One-time Ongoing Total
2019 $6,000,000 $3,000,000 $9,000,000
2020 - $3,000,000 $3,000,000
2021 - $3,000,000 $3,000,000
2022 $8,600,000 $3,000,000 $11,600,000
2023 $19,600,000 $3,000,000 $22,600,000
2024 $33,500,000 $3,000,000 $36,500,000
Total $67,700,000 $18,000,000 $85,700,000
Note: These appropriations have been made to the Division of Facilities Construction 
Management (DFCM) which then allocates pass-through line items to UOLF. Allocations from 
DFCM to other Olympic venue owners, such as local governments, are excluded from this table.
Source: Office of the Legislative Fiscal Analyst (2023). Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation 
Funding Items.
Table 8: One-time State Appropriations for Utah Olympic 
Legacy Foundation Capital Expenditures, FY 2023
Capital Projects Amount ($)
Expenditures 
(as of October 
2023)
UOP Snowmaking $1,500,000 $521,278
Venue Signage $500,000 $91,383
Soldier Hollow Snowmaking Systems $500,000 $500,000
Soldier Hollow Expansion & Renovation $7,600,000 $1,490,783
UOP West Peak Mountain $9,000,000 $9,000,000
UOP Performance & High Altitude Center $500,000 $45,000
Total $19,600,000 $11,648,444
Source: Utah’s Infrastructure and General Government Appropriations Subcommittee (2023)
Figure 7: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation Net Assets, FY 
2020-2023
Note: Operating revenues displayed here include the change in net assets without donor 
restrictions.
Source: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation’s Consolidated Financial Statements,  
FY 2021-2023
$95
$100
$105
$110
$115
$120
$125
$130Millions $108.3
2021
$101.7
2020
$111.8
2022
$127.7
2023
37.3% | ($11.3)
Sponsorships,
donations and
grants*
29.6% | ($9.0)
Public programs
and activities 21.0% | ($6.4)
Youth sport programs
8.5% | ($2.6)
Olympic venue
operations and external
athlete training
3.6% | ($1.1)
Sport events and
community engagement
33.6% Accommodation
25.3% Food Services10.9% Arts,
entertainment
and recreation
9.7% Local
Transportation
8.1% Retail
6.0% Gasoline
6.4% Groceries
$33,178
$53,342
$19,235
$39,284
$27,086
$50,779
$0
$10,000
$20,000
$30,000
$40,000
$50,000
$60,000
711 Performing Arts, Spectator
Sports, and Related Industries
61 Educational Services;
private
UOLF and PCSS Utah U.S.
$0
$5
$10
$15
$20
$25
$30
$35
$40
$45
$20.4
2021
$29.0
2022
$41.9
2023
Millions
24.9% 24.6% 21.9%
Physically active
all 7 days
42.1% 41.2% 37.6%
Walk or ride a
bike to school
50.3%
64.7% 67.8%
Spends 2 or more
hours per school
day on screens
2019 2021 2023
6.4%
0.0%
2.0%
4.0%
6.0%
8.0%
10.0%
12.0%
1999 2004 2009 2014 2019
5.4%
10.2%
18.7%
41.7%
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
30%
35%
40%
45%
50%
55%
60%
65%
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
5% Other
2% Native Hawaiian
1% Black
7% Asian
9% N/A
21% Hispanic
55% White
$11.9
Million
137
gardner.utah.edu   I   July 2024INFORMED DECISIONS TM 9    
Benefits to the Community
In addition to the economic benefits UOLF contributes 
to the state of Utah, the Foundation’s community events, 
sports programs, and volunteer opportunities help to provide 
long-term individual and societal benefits to communities 
throughout the state. UOLF’s Olympic facilities, elite training 
opportunities, and high-profile competitions establish Utah as 
a destination for national and international athletes, delegates, 
and tourists.
Community Events
Community events and recreation centers are valuable assets, 
providing the opportunity for people from diverse backgrounds 
to come together, interact, and build relationships. These types 
of events and facilities provide social infrastructure and meeting 
points where individuals can engage in recreation activities, 
cultural festivities, and community gatherings—strengthening 
social connectedness through social interaction and fostering a 
sense of belonging. Recreation centers also serve a vital role as 
community hubs for information distribution, education, and 
social services.12,13,14
The three Olympic venues host several community events 
annually and serve as both official training centers and community 
recreation centers. UOLF facilities and events are designed to be 
part of the local fabric of the community and celebrate the racial, 
ethnic, gender, and economic diversity of those communities. A 
few examples of UOLF community events include FREE Ski Day at 
SOHO, the PCSS Trail Running Series at UOP , Friday Night Flicks at 
UOO, regional planning meetings, and dozens of other community 
gatherings drawing thousands of attendees.
Sports Programs & Participation
Sports participation is linked with better physical and 
mental health, improved life quality, and increased economic 
productivity.15,16 UOLF helps to promote improved health 
and well-being for Utahns by encouraging participation and 
improving access to sports and active recreation. 
The connection between sports participation and health and
well-being is largely driven by the benefits of increased 
physical activity and social connection and support (Figure 8).
The Healing Effects of Social Connection and Community
Social capital is the resources individuals and groups 
have access to through their social networks and is a key 
characteristic for understanding the social connectedness 
of communities. Social capital is shaped by a community’s 
social infrastructure. 
Social infrastructure refers to the programs (volunteer 
organizations, sports groups, religious groups, and member 
associations), policies (public transportation, housing, 
and education), and physical elements of a community 
(libraries, parks, recreation centers, and sports facilities) 
that facilitate bringing people together. A strong social 
infrastructure can provide opportunities for communities 
to foster social connections among residents, local leaders, 
and community-serving organizations. 
Social networks that grow in size, diversity, and strength 
produce greater levels of social support and social cohesion 
and build social capital for a community.
Source: The U.S. Surgeon General’s Advisory on the Healing Effects of Social 
Connection and Community, 2023.
Soldier Hollow Classic Sheepdog Championship
The Soldier Hollow Classic Sheepdog Championship is 
the largest sheepdog competition in the world attracting 
thousands of attendees. The championship is a multi-
day competition and festival celebrating participants, 
agriculture, and the sheep handling culture that has been a 
tradition in the Heber valley for generations. It attracts more 
than 8,000 attendees.
While Utah is known as one of the healthiest states and ranks 
high on most measures of healthy behaviors,17 rates of physical 
inactivity, obesity, and stress and depression are increasing 
among Utah’s youth and young adults (Figures 9-11). 
UOLF embraces broad community use of its venues by all ages 
and ability levels and designs programs that promote not only 
athletic excellence but personal growth. The Foundation and 
its venues serve to introduce Utah's youth to a variety of winter 
sports and other recreational activities such as hiking, biking, 
and skating. Through these efforts, UOLF helps to promote 
healthy lifestyles while keeping fees affordable with subsidies 
and scholarships. UOLF also uses sports participation to engage 
youth in building life skills and Olympism and Paralympism 
values through its philosophical approach to sports.
Overall participation in UOLF’s sports programs increased by 
nearly 60% between 2019 and 2023 (Table 9). The number of 
youths served through UOLF’s youth-focused programs almost 
doubled from 2019 to 2023 to close to 2,500 (Figure 12).
UOLF promotes sports and recreation participation 
by providing subsidized sporting opportunities to 
underrepresented youth through its Healthy Communities 
program and youth scholarships. 18 The programs celebrate 
racial, ethnic, gender, and economic diversity by providing 
financial opportunities for children to develop physically and 
socially through access to sports participation (Figure 13). 
138
July 2024   I   gardner.utah.edu INFORMED DECISIONS TM10    
Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation's Sports Philosophy
UOLF established an updated sports philosophy in 2008 
that is based on a child development model called Long 
Term Athlete Development (“LTAD”). The core belief behind 
this approach is first making sure sports programs are 
inclusive to all ages and ability levels and that they are fun 
and engaging for participants. Coaches are educated in child 
development, practices are age-appropriate, and fields of 
play are “right sized” for the participants. Early year program 
participants focus on the core ABC skills (agility, balance, and 
coordination), while deemphasizing competition. Quality 
instructors teach “Physical Literacy” and slowly transition to 
phased skill development and eventually program categories 
such as “Learn to Train, ” “Train to Train, ” and “Train to Compete. ” 
Figure 8: Impacts of Sport Participation on Mental, 
Physical, and Social Well-Being
Physical 
Activity
• Improved thinking 
and cognition
• Weight management
• Strengthen bones 
and muscles
• Improve physical 
functioning of 
daily life
• Prevents injury
• Improve sleep 
duration and quality
Social Connection 
& Support
• Increased social 
support
• Increased sense 
of belonging and 
companionship
• Improved sense 
of purpose and 
meaning
• Improves self-
control or mastery to 
overcome challenges
• Greater self-esteem
Greater 
Well-being
• Improved mood
• Reduced stress, 
anxiety, and 
depression
• Better life quality
• Increased vitality
• Better life satisfaction
+ =
Source: Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute review of the literature
Helping Meet a Utah Need
Figure 9: Share of Utah 6th Grade Students Engaging in 
Physical Activity, 2019–2023
Source: Utah Student Health and Risk Prevention: Prevention Needs 
Assessment Survey
$95
$100
$105
$110
$115
$120
$125
$130Millions $108.3
2021
$101.7
2020
$111.8
2022
$127.7
2023
37.3% | ($11.3)
Sponsorships,
donations and
grants*
29.6% | ($9.0)
Public programs
and activities 21.0% | ($6.4)
Youth sport programs
8.5% | ($2.6)
Olympic venue
operations and external
athlete training
3.6% | ($1.1)
Sport events and
community engagement
33.6% Accommodation
25.3% Food Services10.9% Arts,
entertainment
and recreation
9.7% Local
Transportation
8.1% Retail
6.0% Gasoline
6.4% Groceries
$33,178
$53,342
$19,235
$39,284
$27,086
$50,779
$0
$10,000
$20,000
$30,000
$40,000
$50,000
$60,000
711 Performing Arts, Spectator
Sports, and Related Industries
61 Educational Services;
private
UOLF and PCSS Utah U.S.
$0
$5
$10
$15
$20
$25
$30
$35
$40
$45
$20.4
2021
$29.0
2022
$41.9
2023
Millions
24.9% 24.6% 21.9%
Physically active
all 7 days
42.1% 41.2% 37.6%
Walk or ride a
bike to school
50.3%
64.7% 67.8%
Spends 2 or more
hours per school
day on screens
2019 2021 2023
6.4%
0.0%
2.0%
4.0%
6.0%
8.0%
10.0%
12.0%
1999 2004 2009 2014 2019
5.4%
10.2%
18.7%
41.7%
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
30%
35%
40%
45%
50%
55%
60%
65%
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
5% Other
2% Native Hawaiian
1% Black
7% Asian
9% N/A
21% Hispanic
55% White
$11.9
Million
Figure 10: Share of Utah Students in 9th-12th Grade with 
Obesity, 1999-2023
 Source: Utah Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System, Utah State Office of Education
$95
$100
$105
$110
$115
$120
$125
$130Millions $108.3
2021
$101.7
2020
$111.8
2022
$127.7
2023
37.3% | ($11.3)
Sponsorships,
donations and
grants*
29.6% | ($9.0)
Public programs
and activities 21.0% | ($6.4)
Youth sport programs
8.5% | ($2.6)
Olympic venue
operations and external
athlete training
3.6% | ($1.1)
Sport events and
community engagement
33.6% Accommodation
25.3% Food Services10.9% Arts,
entertainment
and recreation
9.7% Local
Transportation
8.1% Retail
6.0% Gasoline
6.4% Groceries
$33,178
$53,342
$19,235
$39,284
$27,086
$50,779
$0
$10,000
$20,000
$30,000
$40,000
$50,000
$60,000
711 Performing Arts, Spectator
Sports, and Related Industries
61 Educational Services;
private
UOLF and PCSS Utah U.S.
$0
$5
$10
$15
$20
$25
$30
$35
$40
$45
$20.4
2021
$29.0
2022
$41.9
2023
Millions
24.9% 24.6% 21.9%
Physically active
all 7 days
42.1% 41.2% 37.6%
Walk or ride a
bike to school
50.3%
64.7% 67.8%
Spends 2 or more
hours per school
day on screens
2019 2021 2023
6.4%
0.0%
2.0%
4.0%
6.0%
8.0%
10.0%
12.0%
1999 2004 2009 2014 2019
5.4%
10.2%
18.7%
41.7%
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
30%
35%
40%
45%
50%
55%
60%
65%
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
5% Other
2% Native Hawaiian
1% Black
7% Asian
9% N/A
21% Hispanic
55% White
$11.9
Million
Figure 11: Share of Utah Adults Ages 18-25 Regularly 
Experiencing Stress, Depression, or Problems with 
Emotions, 2011-2022
Utah’s youth are spending less time 
exercising and more time on screens.
The share of Utah's youth with obesity 
nearly doubled in almost 25 years.
Note: Share of adults reporting seven or more days with not good mental health. 
“Now thinking about your mental health, which includes stress, depression, and 
problems with emotions, for how many days during the past 30 days was your 
mental health not good?” 
Sources: Utah Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System, Office of Public Health 
Assessment, Utah Department of Health and Human Services
$95
$100
$105
$110
$115
$120
$125
$130Millions $108.3
2021
$101.7
2020
$111.8
2022
$127.7
2023
37.3% | ($11.3)
Sponsorships,
donations and
grants*
29.6% | ($9.0)
Public programs
and activities 21.0% | ($6.4)
Youth sport programs
8.5% | ($2.6)
Olympic venue
operations and external
athlete training
3.6% | ($1.1)
Sport events and
community engagement
33.6% Accommodation
25.3% Food Services10.9% Arts,
entertainment
and recreation
9.7% Local
Transportation
8.1% Retail
6.0% Gasoline
6.4% Groceries
$33,178
$53,342
$19,235
$39,284
$27,086
$50,779
$0
$10,000
$20,000
$30,000
$40,000
$50,000
$60,000
711 Performing Arts, Spectator
Sports, and Related Industries
61 Educational Services;
private
UOLF and PCSS Utah U.S.
$0
$5
$10
$15
$20
$25
$30
$35
$40
$45
$20.4
2021
$29.0
2022
$41.9
2023
Millions
24.9% 24.6% 21.9%
Physically active
all 7 days
42.1% 41.2% 37.6%
Walk or ride a
bike to school
50.3%
64.7% 67.8%
Spends 2 or more
hours per school
day on screens
2019 2021 2023
6.4%
0.0%
2.0%
4.0%
6.0%
8.0%
10.0%
12.0%
1999 2004 2009 2014 2019
5.4%
10.2%
18.7%
41.7%
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
30%
35%
40%
45%
50%
55%
60%
65%
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
5% Other
2% Native Hawaiian
1% Black
7% Asian
9% N/A
21% Hispanic
55% White
$11.9
Million
Table 9: Number of Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation and 
Park City Ski and Snowboard Sport Participants, 2019-2023
Organization 2019 2023 Growth
UOLF 1,136 1,902 67.4%
Youth 521 1,270 143.8%
Adults 615 632 2.8%
PCSS 750 1,087 44.9%
Total 1,886 2,989 58.5%
Source: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation
The share of young adults in Utah regulalry  
experiencing, stress, depression, and problems with 
emotions more than doubled over the last 10 years.
Source: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation
139
gardner.utah.edu   I   July 2024INFORMED DECISIONS TM 11    
More than half of the youth that participate in UOLF scholarship 
opportunities (54%) live in economically disadvantaged 
communities with high rates of child poverty (Table 10). Close to 
half (45%) are from diverse communities (Figure 14). 
UOLF funded over $276,000 in subsidized sporting 
opportunities through the Healthy Communities program, 
and provided another $177,000 in scholarships, between 
2018 and 2022 (Table 11). While UOLF has a specific focus on 
providing scholarships and subsidized sporting opportunities 
to underrepresented youth, it is important to note that all UOLF 
programs are subsidized given UOLF generally charges less than 
the actual operating costs to use its facilities. UOLF can provide 
these subsidized opportunities by using investment earnings 
from the Legacy Fund.19
Volunteer Opportunities 
Volunteering accrues benefits both to the volunteer and to 
the community. Volunteers obtain altruistic fulfillment, self-
improvement opportunities, and career preparation through 
their service.20,21  At a community level, volunteering increases 
social capital and social connectedness and reduces social 
isolation, which is increasing in Utah—particularly among 
Utah’s youth (Figure 15).22,23,24,25,26
UOLF provides robust volunteer opportunities. Nearly 3,000 
volunteers supported Utah Olympic Park, Utah Olympic Oval, 
and Soldier Hollow Nordic Center activities between 2019 and 
2023 (Table 12). An additional 250 volunteers fill nearly 650 
volunteer shifts each year through Park City Ski and Snowboard.
Table 10: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation Y outh 
Scholarship Participation by City/Town, FY 2023 
City
Share of UOLF’s youth 
scholarship participation
Salt Lake City 26%
West Jordan 19%
Midway 9%
West Valley City 9%
South Jordan 8%
Herriman 7%
Draper 4%
Lehi 3%
Centerville 2%
Other 14%
Note: Red indicates a city/town within a Utah small area that has child poverty rates 
higher than the statewide rate. All three of these cities have child poverty rates more than 
double the statewide poverty rate.
Sources: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation. Poverty rates from American Community 
Survey (ACS) 5-year estimate (table S1701), 2017-2021 combined years
Figure 12: Number of Y outh Served through Utah Olympic 
Legacy Foundation’s Y outh Programs, 2019-2023
1,271
2019
2,357
2023
Note: Totals represent UOLF youth and PCSS combined. 
Source: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation
Figure 13: Examples of Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation 
Y outh Programs, 2018-2023
Source: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation
Utah Olympic Park
• Summer FUN-
damentals
• Camp for low-income
• Hispanic/Latino 
students
Utah Olympic Oval
• Learn to Skate 
Sessions for 4th and 
5th graders
• Transitions Program 
for students with 
speciaI needs
• Free skate time 
for high school PE 
credits
Soldier Hollow
• Free cross-country 
season pass and 
equipment for low-
income children
• Learn to Cross-
Country Ski
• Cross-country 
training for students 
with special needs
Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation's  
Healthy Communities Program
UOLF launched the Healthy Communities program in 
2018 in partnership with Granite School District and other 
community partners. The program provides a free, five-week 
Learn to Skate Program to over 750 4th and 5th-grade students 
in Kearns. The program includes transportation, instruction, 
and equipment. The program has since expanded to provide 
free lessons, summer camp scholarship opportunities, and 
other ways for low-income, special needs, and youth from 
diverse communities to participate in sports programs.
Figure 14: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation Scholarship 
Recipients by Race/Ethnicity, 2023
Source: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation
$95
$100
$105
$110
$115
$120
$125
$130Millions $108.3
2021
$101.7
2020
$111.8
2022
$127.7
2023
37.3% | ($11.3)
Sponsorships,
donations and
grants*
29.6% | ($9.0)
Public programs
and activities 21.0% | ($6.4)
Youth sport programs
8.5% | ($2.6)
Olympic venue
operations and external
athlete training
3.6% | ($1.1)
Sport events and
community engagement
33.6% Accommodation
25.3% Food Services10.9% Arts,
entertainment
and recreation
9.7% Local
Transportation
8.1% Retail
6.0% Gasoline
6.4% Groceries
$33,178
$53,342
$19,235
$39,284
$27,086
$50,779
$0
$10,000
$20,000
$30,000
$40,000
$50,000
$60,000
711 Performing Arts, Spectator
Sports, and Related Industries
61 Educational Services;
private
UOLF and PCSS Utah U.S.
$0
$5
$10
$15
$20
$25
$30
$35
$40
$45
$20.4
2021
$29.0
2022
$41.9
2023
Millions
24.9% 24.6% 21.9%
Physically active
all 7 days
42.1% 41.2% 37.6%
Walk or ride a
bike to school
50.3%
64.7% 67.8%
Spends 2 or more
hours per school
day on screens
2019 2021 2023
6.4%
0.0%
2.0%
4.0%
6.0%
8.0%
10.0%
12.0%
1999 2004 2009 2014 2019
5.4%
10.2%
18.7%
41.7%
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
30%
35%
40%
45%
50%
55%
60%
65%
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
5% Other
2% Native Hawaiian
1% Black
7% Asian
9% N/A
21% Hispanic
55% White
$11.9
Million
140
July 2024   I   gardner.utah.edu INFORMED DECISIONS TM12    
Helping Meet a Utah Need
Promoting Utah 
UOLF continues to keep Utah’s living Olympic legacy alive and 
promotes Utah as a destination for national and international 
athletes, delegates, and tourists. UOLF’s Olympic venues 
hosted close to 250 international winter sport events since 
the 2002 Winter Games (Appendix 3, Table 3-1). 27 These high-
profile events attract thousands of elite athletes from dozens 
of countries, drawing attention to Utah as a premier sports and 
recreation center.
Utah is also home to three winter sport National Governing 
Bodies: US Speedskating, U.S. Ski & Snowboard, and U.S. 
Biathlon—as well as several national sport organizations 
including USA Climbing. Having these organizations located 
in Utah establishes the state as a training center for advanced 
athletes and Olympians. Due to the success of the 2002 Olympic 
and Paralympic Games and UOLF’s stewardship of Utah’s 
Olympic assets, international delegates also continue to travel 
to Utah with an interest in understanding UOLF’s legacy efforts. 
The Individual and Societal Benefits of Volunteerism
Volunteering enables individuals to develop transferable 
skills and abilities while increasing their social network, 
which can expand future employment opportunities. 
Volunteerism also promotes civic pride and social 
cohesion. Civic pride and social cohesion—the feeling 
of being connected and bound together—contribute to 
many positive community attributes, such as community 
resilience and social progress. Volunteering also offsets 
social isolation and loneliness by expanding social networks 
and contributing to a sense of belonging.
Source: Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute review of the literature
Table 11: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation Spending on 
Healthy Communities and Y outh Scholarships, 2018-2022
Y ear Healthy Communities Y outh Scholarships
2018 $19,505 $19,223
2019 $46,651 $29,355
2020 $52,165 $41,955
2021 $28,754 $43,718
2022 $129,890 $43,684
Total $276,965 $177,935
Source: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation
UOLF has hosted 20 international delegations from 12 
countries since 2013 (Figure 16), sharing insights and strategies 
on sustaining Utah's Olympic legacy, maintaining world-class 
Olympic facilities, promoting sustainable tourism, planning for 
Olympic infrastructure, and using Olympic facilities to engage 
youth in sports and recreational activities. These delegate visits 
demonstrate UOLF’s reputation in successfully fostering an 
Olympic legacy, which is an International Olympic Committee 
(IOC) requirement for Olympic host sites.
UOLF’s investment in maintaining the Olympic venues, 
training advanced athletes, hosting international events, 
and expanding participation in sports and recreation plays 
a significant role in positioning Utah as a host for the 2034 
Olympic and Paralympic Games and is critical to their success.28 
Figure 15: Share of Utahns Reporting Social Isolation by 
Grade (Y outh) and Age Group (Adults), 2022 and 2023
Table 12: Number of Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation 
Volunteers, 2019-2023 (combined)
Organization Volunteers
UOP 700+
UOO 900+
SOHO 1,290+
Total 2,890+
Source: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation
19.8%
24.1% 23.4%
10.7%
6.8% 6.7%
4.5%
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
30%
8th 10th 12th 18-34 35-49 50-64 65+
Youth (2023) Adults (2022)
Sources: Youth - SHARP Prevention Needs Assessment. Adult - Utah Department of 
Health and Human Services Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS)
Social isolation is increasing among all Utah age groups, 
with youth reporting the highest rates of social isolation.
141
gardner.utah.edu   I   July 2024INFORMED DECISIONS TM 13    
23
4567
8
12
10
1
119
1  Russia
• September 2013 “A Project for Russia” . 
Interest – Olympic Sport Promotion & Fundraising
2  Korea
• May 2013 PyeongChang, Korea delegation. 
Interest – Olympic hosting. 
• June 2014 PyeongChang, Korea delegation. 
Interest – Olympic hosting. (Return visit)
• September 2016 Gangneung Korea. 
Interest – Olympic Hosting (Ice Venue City – 2018)
• October 2018 PyeongChang OCOG Visit. 
Interest – Legacy Planning
3  China
• March 2013 Peoples Republic of China.  
Interest – Sustainable Tourism
• March 2016 Beijing Olympic Development 
Delegation.
 Interest – Planning Olympic Infrastructure and 
Legacy efforts afterward
• January 2017 Hebei Province/Beijing OCOG. 
Interest – venue planning & Legacy
• January 2020 Beijing OCOG. 
Interest – Speed skating venue planning
4  Kazakhstan
• December 2014 Kazakhstan.  
Interest – Regional planning/Event Hosting
5  Ukraine
• July 2014 “A Project for Ukraine” . 
Interest – Event & Sport Management
• June - Sept 2022 Ukraine. UOLF Hosted Ukraine 
Freestyle Skiing & Curling teams
6  Austria
• January 2015 “A Project for Austria” .  
Interest – Youth sports inclusive programs
7  France
• January 2024 France. 2030/Provence- 
Alpes- Côte d’Azur
8  Azerbaijan
• March 2015 “A Project for Azerbaijan” .
 Interest – Community Impacts of the 2002 Olympics
9  Near East and North Africa 
• June 2015 “A Regional Project for the 
Near East and North Africa” . 
Interest – Use of Olympic facilities to engage youth 
in sport and recreational activities
10  Saudi Arabia
• August 2022 Saudi Arabia/Princess Reema. 
Interest – Winter Sports
11 Qatar
• February 2017 “A Project for Qatar” .  
Interest – Crisis Management/Olympics
  
12  Brazil
• February 2014 “A Project for Brazil” .  
Interest – Hosting Olympics/Tourism
• March 2015 “A Project for Brazil” .  
Interest – Sports for All
Figure 16: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation International Delegate Visits
142
July 2024   I   gardner.utah.edu INFORMED DECISIONS TM14    
Appendix 1: Research Methods
Economic Contribution and Economic Impact Analysis
Economic contributions have a broader scope than economic 
impacts, including all spending from the event, firm, industry, 
or project under analysis without differentiating between 
spending that originates from within the region of analysis 
and spending from outside the region. Economic contribution 
analysis does not consider how spending in one industry may 
crowd out spending in another industry. In contrast, economic 
impact analysis focuses solely on new spending from outside 
the region and properly accounts for crowding out effects. 
Essentially, economic impacts are a subset of economic 
contributions. The analysis of UOLF’s economic footprint is 
considered an economic contribution analysis since UOLF 
funding sources include state appropriations. In the absence of 
UOLF, those public funds would most certainly be redirected 
elsewhere in-state given the nature of state budgets and myriad 
public policy and legislative priorities.
The Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute utilized the REMI PI+ 
model v3.1.0 to estimate UOLF’s economic contribution to 
Utah’s economy using UOLF data on payroll and benefits, non-
compensation operational expenses, capital expenditures, 
and visitor spending occurring because of the UOLF Olympic 
venues. Each spending category maps to a corresponding NAICS 
industry in the model. The analysis addresses the question, 
“What would happen to Utah’s economy if UOLF did not exist 
in 2023?” . Consequently, the model applies negative shocks, 
and the results, also in negative terms, indicate the potential 
losses to Utah’s economy without UOLF and associated visitor 
spending. 
Seasonal Employee Adjustment
To determine the adjusted headcount of seasonal employees, 
the research team first averaged the working hours per year of 
full-time, part-time, and exempt employees altogether using 
their counts and total hours worked by venue. Then, the team 
derived seasonal headcount equivalents by dividing the total 
working hours of seasonal employees by the average working 
hours of the combined full-time/part-time/exempt group. 
Although UOLF reported having 633 seasonal employees, the 
adjusted seasonal headcount using this method totals 139. This 
adjustment ensures accurate wage and associated dynamic 
effects when conducting the model simulation.
Visitor Spending Estimation
UOLF provided data on each venue’s number of athletes, 
competitions, trainings, and the number of visitors from the 
general public who signed a waiver to participate in an onsite 
activity. Subsequently, the number of spectators for each type of 
event was estimated based on assumptions provided by UOLF. 
For international competitions and events, a coefficient of 0.1 
was applied to the number of athletes to estimate the number 
of spectators. For instance, if there were 100 athletes, there 
would be 100*(0.1) or ten spectators estimated in attendance 
at the event. Higher coefficients of 0.5 and 1.5 were applied for 
national and regional levels of competition, respectively. 
After obtaining the total number of visitors, the research 
team applied total spending assumptions and expenditure 
patterns to estimate total visitor spending by NAICS industry. 
The research team used Omnitrak’s general leisure visitor profile 
data, available by Utah city for three recent years (2021-2023), 
to derive total spending and expenditure pattern assumptions 
as averages. The spending pattern and amount spent per day 
by Salt Lake City visitors were applied to Utah Olympic Oval 
visitors, while Park City visitor spending patterns and daily 
spending amounts were applied to Utah Olympic Park and 
Soldier Hollow Nordic Center visitors. While the Utah Olympic 
Oval is in Kearns, both Kearns and Salt Lake City are located in 
Salt Lake County. 
Despite Soldier Hollow Nordic Center being in Heber City, 
Wasatch County, small sample sizes from Wasatch County 
prevent use of that county’s data for the total spending and 
spending pattern estimates. Given many Wasatch County 
visitors lodge in Summit County and the proximity of Wasatch 
County to Summit County, the Park City spending profile 
adequately represents Heber City’s visitors. Based on the three-
year averaged data from Omnitrak, visitors to the Utah Olympic 
Oval spend an estimated $89 per person per day and visitors to 
the Utah Olympic Park and Soldier Hollow Nordic Center spend 
an estimated $108 per person per day.
143
gardner.utah.edu   I   July 2024INFORMED DECISIONS TM 15    
Appendix 2: Trainings and Competitions Hosted at Utah Olympic Venues
Table 2-1: Trainings at the Primary Olympic Venues, FY 2023
Venue Training Days
Utah Olympic Park 39,612
Utah Olympic Oval 86,498
Soldier Hollow 17,724
Total UOLF  143,834 
Note: A training day represents a registered participant’s single day of training or individual practice session at one of the three Olympic venues. 
Source: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation
Table 2-2: Utah Olympic Park, Utah Olympic Oval, and Soldier Hollow Nordic Center Competitions, FY 2023
Competitions by Venue Date
Utah Olympic Park 2022-2023
IBSF Bobsled and Skeleton North American Cup November 15-23
U.S. Ski & Snowboard Heckert Cup Ski Jumping January 7-8
U.S. Ski & Snowboard Ski Jumping Junior Nationals & World Junior Qualifier January 7
U.S. Ski Team Aerials Selections January 14
FIL Luge Continental Cup January 17-21
U.S. Ski & Snowboard Alpine South Series February 4-5 
FIS Aerials Nor Am Cup February 15-20
U.S. Ski & Snowboard Alpine YSL February 11-12
U.S. Ski & Snowboard Inter-Mountain Division Alpine Regional February 19-20
U.S. Ski & Snowboard Freestyle Moguls Western Regionals March 3-4
Utah Olympic Oval  
Short Track Speedskating Desert Classic August 13-14
Long Track Speedskating Desert Classic September 3-4
US Short Track Fall World Cup Qualifier & Youth Olympic Games Qualifier September 23-24
ISU Long Track Speedskating World Cup November 4-6 
ISU Long Track Speedskating 4 Continent Championship November 11-13
US American Cup Final January 6-8 
Tournament Cup Series Hockey (60 teams) March 17-19
My Hockey Tournament (49 teams)  December 6-8
Soldier Hollow  
Mountain Archery Fest May 27-29
Intermountain Cup Mountain Bike June 10
NICA Region 4 Mountain Bike August 20
Intermountain Cup Mountain Bike July 15
Wasatch Allroad Bike Race August 27
NICA Region 6 Mountain Bike September 17
NICA Region 3 Mountain Bike September 24
Schutzenski Fest Cross Country and Biathlon October 12-15
US Para Cross Country and Biathlon National Championships January 1-5
Bike Utah Fat Bike Race #1 January 10
Wasatch Citizen Series Cross Country January 14
Tuesday Night Lights #1 Cross Country January 17
Bike Utah Fat Bike Race #2 January 24
Tuesday Night Lights #2 Cross Country January 31
Bike Utah Fat Bike Race #3 February 7
Tuesday Night Lights #3 Cross Country February 14
Bike Utah Fat Bike Race #4 February 20
FIS Para World Cup Cross Country and Biathlon March 1-8
Tuesday Night Lights #4 Cross Country March 21
Note: These competitions include elite, non-elite youth, and non-elite adult level competitions.
Source: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation
 
144
July 2024   I   gardner.utah.edu INFORMED DECISIONS TM16    
Appendix 3: Elite Athletic Events Hosted at Utah Olympic Venues
UOLF continues to keep Utah’s Olympic legacy alive and promotes Utah as a destination for national and international athletes, 
delegates, and tourists. UOLF’s Olympic venues hosted close to 250 international winter sport events since the 2002 Winter Games.
Table 3-1: Select Elite Athletic Events Hosted at Utah Olympic Venues Since 2002
Season Event Sport Venue
2002-03 ISU World Cup Short Track Short Track UOO
2002-03 ISU World Cup Speed Skating Speed Skating UOO 
2002-03 FIS Aerials NorAm Aerials UOP
2002-03 IBSF Skeleton World Cup Skeleton UOP
2002-03 IBSF Women’s Bobsled World Cup Bobsled UOP
2002-03 IBSF America’s Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2002-03 FIL Luge World Cup Luge UOP
2002-03 Luge Junior World Cup Luge UOP
2002-03 FIS Continental Cup SJ Ski Jumping UOP
2002-03 FIS World Cup B Nordic Combined Nordic Combined UOP/SOHO
2003-04 ISU Speed Skating Sprint World Cup Speed Skating UOO
2003-04 FIS Aerials NorAm Aerials UOP
2003-04 USBSF Bobsled & Skeleton America’s Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2003-04 IBSF North American Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2003-04 FIL Luge World Cup Luge UOP
2003-04 FIS SJ Continental Cup Mens Ski Jumping UOP
2003-04 FIS SJ World Cup Mens Ski Jumping UOP
2004-05 ISU World Sprint Speed Skating Championships Speed Skating UOO
2004-05 American Cup Speed Skating Final Speed Skating UOO
2004-05 FIS Aerials NorAm Aerials UOP
2004-05 USBSF Bobsled & Skeleton America’s Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2004-05 IBSF North American Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2004-05 Luge International Training Week Luge UOP
2004-05 FIL World Luge Championships Luge UOP
2004-05 FIS SJ Continental Cup Ladies and Men Ski Jumping UOP
2005-06 Essent ISU Speed Skating World Cup Speed Skating UOO
2005-06 Champions Challenge Speed Skating Speed Skating UOO
2005-06 America’s Cup Bobsled & Skeleton Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2005-06 IBSF World Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2005-06 IBSF North American Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2005-06 FIS Aerials NorAm Aerials UOP
2005-06 FIS NC Continental Cup Nordic Combined UOP
2005-06 FIS SJ Continental Cup Ladies and Men Ski Jumping UOP
2006-07 Speed Skating American Cup Speed Skating UOO
2006-07 ISU World Single Distance Speed Skating Championships Speed Skating UOO
2006-07 FIS Aerials NorAm Aerials UOP
2006-07 IBSF Bobsled & Skeleton World Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2006-07 IBSF North American Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2006-07 FIL Luge World Cup Luge UOP
2006-07 FIS NC Continental Cup Nordic Combined UOP
2006-07 FIS SJ Continental Cup Ladies Ski Jumping UOP
2007-08 FIS Aerials NorAm Aerials UOP
2007-08 Essent ISU World Cup Speed Skating Speed Skating UOO
2007-08 ISU World Cup Speed Skating Speed Skating UOO
2007-08 ISU ST World Cup Short Track UOO 
2007-08 LT American Cup Speed Skating UOO 
2007-08 LT American Cup Speed Skating UOO 
2007-08 IBSF Bobsled & Skeleton World Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2007-08 IBSF North American Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2007-08 FIL Luge Junior World Cup Luge UOP
2007-08 FIS SJ Continental Cup Ladies Ski Jumping UOP
2008-09 ISU Short Track World Cup Short Track UOO
145
gardner.utah.edu   I   July 2024INFORMED DECISIONS TM 17    
Season Event Sport Venue
2008-09 Essent ISU World Cup Speed Skating Final Speed Skating UOO
2008-09 America Cup Final/Champions Challenge Speed Skating UOO
2008-09 Speed Skating American Cup Speed Skating UOO
2008-09 FIS Aerials NorAm Aerials UOP
2008-09 Bobsled & Skeleton America’s Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2008-09 FIBT Bobsled & Skeleton Intercontinental Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2008-09 IBSF Skeleton Intercontinental Cup Skeleton UOP
2008-09 FIBT Bobsled & Skeleton World Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2008-09 IBSF North American Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2008-09 FIS Nordic Combined Women’s Continental Cup Nordic Combined UOP
2008-09 FIS SJ Continental Cup Ladies Ski Jumping UOP
2009-10 ISU ST World Cup Short Track UOO
2009-10 ST Desert Classic Short Track UOO
2009-10 ISU Essent Long Track Speed Skating World Cup Speed Skating UOO
2009-10 LT American Cup Speed Skating UOO
2009-10 LT American Cup Speed Skating UOO
2009-10 LT Desert Classic Speed Skating UOO
2009-10 FIBT Bobsled & Skeleton World Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2009-10 IBSF North American Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP 
2009-10 IBSF Skeleton Intercontinental Cup Skeleton UOP 
2009-10 FIS Aerials NorAm Aerials UOP 
2009-10 FIS Nordic Combined Continental Cup Nordic Combined UOP 
2010-11 ST Desert Classic Short Track UOO
2010-11 ISU Speed Skating Regional Qualifier Speed Skating UOO
2010-11 US Speed Skating Long Distances America’s Cup Speed Skating UOO
2010-11 LT Desert Classic Speed Skating UOO
2010-11 ISU Essent World Cup Long Distances Speed Skating UOO
2010-11 FIBT Bobsled/Skeleton America’s Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2010-11 FIBT Bobsled/Skeleton World Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2010-11 FIBT Bobsled/Skeleton Jr. World Championships Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2010-11 IBSF North American Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2010-11 FIL Luge World Cup Luge UOP
2010-11 FIS Nordic Combined Jumping/Cross Country Ski Jumping, Nordic Combined & Cross Country UOP/SOHO
2010-11 FIS Nordic Combined Continental Cup Nordic Combined UOP
2011-12 ISU Short Track Speed Skating World Cup Short Track UOO
2011-12 ST Desert Classic Short Track UOO
2011-12 Long Track Fall World Cup Qualifier Speed Skating UOO
2011-12 Essent ISU World Cup Long Track Speedskating Speed Skating UOO
2011-12 U.S. Speed Skating Long Track Americas Cup Speed Skating UOO
2011-12 LT Desert Classic Speed Skating UOO
2011-12 IBSF Skeleton Intercontinental Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2011-12 IBSF North American Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2011-12 America’s Cup Bobsled & Skeleton Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2011-12 FIBT Skeleton Intercontinental Cup Skeleton UOP
2011-12 FIL Luge Junior World Cup (Double) Luge UOP
2011-12 FIS Nordic Ski Jumping Jr. Olympics Ski Jumping UOP
2011-12 FIS Nordic Combined Nordic Combined UOP/SOHO
2012-13 ST Desert Classic Short Track UOO
2012-13 Long Track Speed Skating ISU Sprint World Championships Speed Skating UOO
2012-13 ISU World Sprint Speed Skating Championships Speed Skating UOO
2012-13 Long Track Speed Skating Championships & America’s Cup Finals Speed Skating UOO
2012-13 Masters World Sprint Invitational Speed Skating UOO
2012-13 LT Masters International Championships Speed Skating UOO
2012-13 LT American Cup Speed Skating UOO
2012-13 LT Desert Classic Speed Skating UOO
2012-13 IBSF Bobsled/Skeleton America’s Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2012-13 IBSF Bobsled/Skeleton World Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2012-13 IBSF Skeleton Intercontinental Cup Skeleton UOP 
2012-13 FIL Jr. World Luge Championships Luge UOP
2012-13 FIS Continental Cup (Men’s Nordic Combined) Nordic Combined UOP
146
July 2024   I   gardner.utah.edu INFORMED DECISIONS TM18    
Season Event Sport Venue
2012-13 FIS Aerials NorAm Aerials UOP 
2012-13 FIS Aerials NorAm Aerials UOP 
2012-13 IBSF World Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP 
2012-13 IBSF North American Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP 
2013-14 ISU World Cup Speed Skating Long Track Speed Skating UOO
2013-14 LT American Cup Speed Skating UOO
2013-14 LT Desert Classic Speed Skating UOO
2013-14 ST Desert Classic Short Track UOO 
2013-14 FIS Aerials NorAm Aerials UOP
2013-14 FIS Aerials NorAm Aerials UOP
2013-14 America’s Cup Bobsled & Skeleton Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2013-14 FIBT Bobsled & Skeleton World Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2013-14 IBSF North American Cup (Triple Race) Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2013-14 FIL Luge World Cup Luge UOP
2013-14 FIS Continental Cup Nordic Combined Nordic Combined UOP
2013-14 Intercontinental Cup Skeleton Skeleton UOP
2013-14 IBSF Skeleton Intercontinental Cup Skeleton UOP
2014-15 ISU Short Track World Cup Short Track UOO
2014-15 ST Desert Classic Short Track UOO
2014-15 Long Track Speed Skating World Cup Qualifier Speed Skating UOO
2014-15 ISU Regional Qualifier - Long Track Speed Skating UOO
2014-15 USS American Cup Finals Speed Skating UOO
2014-15 LT American Cup Speed Skating UOO
2014-15 LT Desert Classic Speed Skating UOO
2014-15 FIS Aerials NorAm Aerials UOP
2014-15 FIS Aerials NorAm Aerials UOP
2014-15 FIBT Bobsled & Skeleton America’s Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2014-15 FIBT Bobsled & Skeleton America’s Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2014-15 IBSF North American Cup (Quadruple Race) Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2014-15 FIL Luge Jr. World Cup Luge UOP
2014-15 FIS Nordic Combined Continental Cup Nordic Combined UOP
2014-15 IBSF Skeleton Para World Cup Para Skeleton UOP
2014-15 USSA Ski Jumping & Nordic Combined Large Hill Nationals Ski Jumping & Nordic Combined UOP
2015-16 ST Desert Classic Short Track UOO
2015-16 ISU World Cup Speed Skating Speed Skating UOO
2015-16 LT American Cup Speed Skating UOO
2015-16 LT Desert Classic Speed Skating UOO
2015-16 FIS Aerials NorAm Aerials UOP
2015-16 FIS Aerials NorAm Aerials UOP
2015-16 IBSF World Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2015-16 IBSF North American Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2015-16 FIL World Cup Luge Luge UOP
2015-16 FIS NC Continental Cup Nordic Combined UOP
2015-16 IBSF Para World Championships Para Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2016-17 US Short Track Fall World Cup Qualifier/America Cup Short Track UOO
2016-17 ISU Speed Skating Short Track Short Track UOO
2016-17 ST Desert Classic Short Track UOO
2016-17 LT American Cup Speed Skating UOO
2016-17 LT Desert Classic Speed Skating UOO
2016-17 FIS Aerials NorAm Aerials UOP
2016-17 FIS Aerials NorAm Aerials UOP
2016-17 IBSF Para Bobsled & Skeleton World Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2016-17 IBSF North American Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2016-17 IBSF Para World Cup Para Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2016-17 FIL Luge World Cup Luge UOP
2016-17 FIS Nordic Junior & U23 World Ski Championships Cross Country, Ski Jumping, Nordic Combined & Ski Jumping UOP/SOHO
2017-18 ST Desert Classic Short Track UOO
2017-18 ISU Speed Skating World Cup Speed Skating UOO
2017-18 Jr World Cup Speed Skating Speed Skating UOO
2017-18 Jr World Championships Speed Skating Speed Skating UOO
147
gardner.utah.edu   I   July 2024INFORMED DECISIONS TM 19    
Season Event Sport Venue
2017-18 LT Desert Classic Speed Skating UOO
2017-18 ISU Long Track World Cup Speed Skating UOO
2017-18 BMW IBSF Bobsled + Skeleton World Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP 
2017-18 IBSF North American Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP 
2018-19 ISU Short Track World Cup Short Track UOO
2018-19 IBSF North American Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP 
2018-19 IBSF Para World Cup Bobsled UOP 
2018-19 FIS Aerials NorAm Aerials UOP
2018-19 ST Desert Classic Short Track UOO
2018-19 IBSF Intercontental Cup Skeleton UOP 
2018-19 LT Desert Classic Speed Skating UOO
2018-19 ISU World Cup Speed Skating Final Speed Skating UOO
2018-19 BMW IBU World Cup Biathlon Biathlon SOHO
2019-20 ISU ST World Cup Short Track UOO
2019-20 OMEGA Youth Series Bobsled & Skeleton UOP
2019-20 IBSF North American Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP 
2019-20 IBSF Para World Cup Bobsled UOP 
2019-20 IBSF Women’s Monobob World Cup Bobsled UOP 
2019-20 FIS Aerials NorAm Aerials UOP
2019-20 FIS Aerials NorAm Aerials UOP
2020-21 FIS NC Continental Cup Nordic Combined UOP/SOHO
2020-21 University of Utah Invitational Cross Country SOHO
2020-21 NorAm Cup Aerials & U.S. Aerial National Championships Aerials UOP
2020-21 IBSF North American Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP 
2020-21 IBSF Women’s Monobob World Cup Bobsled UOP 
2020-21 FIS Aerials NorAm Aerials UOP
2020-21 RMISA Regional Championships (relocated from Anchorage) Cross Country SOHO
2021-22 IBSF Para World Cup Bobsled UOP 
2021-22 IBSF North American Cup Bobsled & Skeleton UOP 
2021-22 IBSF Women’s Monobob World Cup Bobsled UOP 
2021-22 Intercontinental Cup Skeleton Skeleton UOP 
2021-22 ISU Long Track World Cup Speed Skating UOO
2021-22 FIS Aerials NorAm Aerials UOP
2021-22 2022 L.L. Bean U.S. Cross Country Ski Championships Cross Country SOHO
2021-22 NCAA Skiing Championships Cross Country/Alpine SOHO/ Park City
2021-22 IBU Youth and Junior World Championships Biathlon SOHO
2021-22 FIS NC Continental Cup Nordic Combined UOP
2022-23 ISU ST WC Speed Skating UOO
2022-23 ISU ST 4 Continent Championship Speed Skating UOO
2022-23 IBSF Bobsled Skeleton World Cup Bobsled Skeleton UOP
2022-23 FIL Luge World Cup Luge UOP
2022-23 FIL Continental Cup Luge UOP
2022-23 FIS Aerials NorAm Aerials UOP
2022-23 FIS Para World Cup Parra Cross Country/Biathlon SOHO
2023-24 FIL Jr. Luge World Cup Luge UOP 
2023-24 IBSF North American Cup Bobsled/Skeleton UOP 
2023-24 Jr. World Nordic Q Ski Jumping UOP 
2023-24 U.S. Cross Country Ski/Para Nationals Cross Country SOHO
2023-24 PCSS FIS Elite Super-G, GS Series Alpine UOP 
2023-24 RMISA University of Utah Invitational Alpine/Cross Country UOP/SOHO
2023-24 ISU Four Continents Speed Skating Championships Speed Skating UOO
2023-24 US Aerials Nationals and FIS Open Aerials UOP 
2023-24 ISU World Cup Speed Skating Speed Skating UOO
2023-24 FIS Open Aerials Aerials UOP 
2023-24 BMW IBU World Cup Biathlon Biathlon SOHO
Source: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation
148
July 2024   I   gardner.utah.edu INFORMED DECISIONS TM20    
Inspire our youth 
and communities to 
lead active and 
healthy lifestyles 
Increase annual 
visitation to legacy 
venues while keeping 
the guest experiences 
enjoyable and within 
our capabilities
Embrace & promote 
the values of 
Olympism: 
Excellence, 
Friendship, Respect;  
Paralympism: 
Determination, 
Courage, Equality, 
and Inspiration  
Be “Olympic Ready” 
by ensuring all UOLF 
venues meet Olympic 
standards for sport 
competitions by 2027
Balance the need 
to be financially 
viable, in perpetuity, 
while promoting 
and prioritizing 
our mission
VISION
To bring to life the Olympic & Paralympic spirit 
in our youth, our communities, and athletes 
from around the world.  
MISSION
To cultivate champions in sport and in life, 
deliver experiences that inspire communities 
and celebrate our Olympic legacy for 
generations to come.  
MISSION PILLARS
R
T
S
P
O
Motivate & inspire 
Utah cities & towns to 
pursue and achieve 
their visionary 
aspirations   
Align & strengthen 
relationships with 
community partners 
who embrace Utah’s 
Olympic & 
Paralympic Spirit
Cultivate diversity, 
equity, inclusiveness 
and work/life balance 
in our workplace & 
community. 
Be intentional about 
and committed to 
environmental 
sustainability in 
everything we do
Prompt innovation 
by working with 
community and sport 
stakeholders to 
create dynamic and 
varied uses of our 
facilities
Create positive 
learning 
environments by 
implementing best 
practices to ensure 
effective and safe 
environments for 
participants of all 
ages and abilities
Achieve Olympic 
Training Center 
Status by providing 
full-service hubs 
for U.S. and 
International athletes 
in pursuit of winter 
sport excellence 
Optimize revenues 
annually to further 
advance UOLF’s 
vision & mission
Educate, engage 
and inspire the 
community, corporate 
businesses and 
public groups to 
experience UOLF 
venues
Achieve broad and 
diverse participation 
in winter sports
Double the 
number of sport 
participants by 
2030 
Ensure quality 
programs that 
foster retention and 
promote personal 
growth and 
excellence
STRA TEGIC PLAN
Operate, maintain, 
and enhance legacy 
facilities at 
world-class levels 
Engage & educate 
through unique 
Olympic-themed 
experiences
Cultivate champions 
in sport & in life
Expand the 
benefits of Utah’s 
legacy to more 
people & places   
Ensure Utah’s 
legacy efforts are 
sustainable
SPORT 
PROGRAMS
PUBLIC
PROGRAMS
OL YMPIC 
VENUES
RESOURCEFUL
MANAGEMENT
THRIVING 
COMMUNITIES
Double the 
number of sport 
participants by 
2030 
Effectively stage & 
support dynamic 
winter sport events
Appendix 4: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation Mission/Values/SPORT Pillars
149
gardner.utah.edu   I   July 2024INFORMED DECISIONS TM 21    
Endnotes
1. UOLF is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization.
2. UOLF was created by the Utah State Legislature in 1994 through a joint 
resolution with the purpose to maintain and operate Utah’s Olympic 
venues and foster Utah’s Olympic legacy through sports development 
in an event that Utah wins a future Olympic bid to host the Olympic and 
Paralympic Games.
3. IOC’s Olympic bid criteria requires candidates to provide plans for Olympic 
legacy. According to the process for evaluating bid cities, there is a strong 
focus on sustainability and legacy.
4. Dan Jones & Associates for the Deseret News and the University of Utah’s 
Hinckley Institute of Politics, January 23-30, 2023. Poll conducted of 802 
registered Utah voters.
5. Compensation data used for this comparison comes from estimates in the 
REMI PI+ economic model for subsector 711, Performing Arts, Spectator 
Sports, and related industries. This subsector is broader than UOLF’s 
industry (NAICS 711310 - Promoters of Performing Arts, Sports, and Similar 
Events with Facilities industry) but represents the most granular associat-
ed subsector with available data.
6. Compensation data used for this comparison comes from estimates in the 
REMI PI+ economic model for sector 61, Private Educational Services. This 
sector is broader than the PCSS industry (NAICS 611620 - Sports and Rec-
reation Instruction industry) but represents the most granular associated 
sector with available data.
7. Minor (non-compensation and non-depreciation) operating expense line 
items and those without a clear mapping to a specific NAICS industry are 
excluded from the analysis.
8. UOLF provided its audited consolidated financial statements for three 
fiscal years – 2021 through 2023. The research team differenced capital 
stock amounts for each available capital expense category to create year-
over changes through fiscal year-end 2022 and 2023. The research team 
averaged the two data points for each category and used these averages 
as inputs to the economic contributions model.
9. While the visitor spending generated by the three Olympic venues could 
be considered an independent economic impact analysis, this represents a 
component of the broader economic contribution of UOLF. For additional 
details related to impact versus contribution analyses, see Appendix 1.
10. Utah's $94.6 million in state appropriations between FY 2019 and FY 2024 
compare to New York's $579.5 million in appropriations over the same 
time period to the New York Olympic Regional Development Authority, 
tasked with maintenance of Olympic venues from the 1980 Lake Placid 
Winter Olympic Games. See https://www.budget.ny.gov/pubs/archive/. 
11. Utah’s Infrastructure and General Government Appropriations Subcom-
mittee. (2023). Utah Olympic Legacy Funding Items. Retrieved from 
https://le.utah.gov/interim/2023/pdf/00005026.pdf
12. Schulenkorf, N. (2009). An ex-ante framework for the strategic study of 
social utility of sport events. Tourism and Hospitality Research, 9(2), 
120–131. doi:10.1057/thr.2009.2
13. Kallett, P ., Hede, A-M., & Chalip, L. (2008). Social policy for sport events: 
leveraging (relationships with) teams from other nations for community 
benefit. European Sport Management Quarterly, 8(2), 101–122. 
doi:10.1080/16184740802024344
14. Vail, S. (2007). Community development and sports participation. Journal 
of Sport Management, 21(4), 571–596.
15. Eather, N., Wade, L., Pankowiak, A. et al. The impact of sports participation 
on mental health and social outcomes in adults: a systematic review and 
the ‘Mental Health through Sport’ conceptual model. Syst Rev 12, 102 
(2023). https://doi.org/10.1186/s13643-023-02264-8
16. Eime RM, Young JA, Harvey JT, Charity MJ, Payne WR. A systematic review 
of the psychological and social benefits of participation in sport for adults: 
informing development of a conceptual model of health through sport. Int J 
Behav Nutr Phys Act. 2013;10:135.
17. America's Health Rankings analysis of America's Health Rankings composite 
measure, United Health Foundation, AmericasHealthRankings.org, accessed 
2024
18. UOLF’s Healthy Communities program launched in 2018 at the Utah 
Olympic Oval through grant funding from George S. & Dolores Dore Eccles 
Foundation, The Miller Family Foundation, and Kulynych Family Foundation 
(now Syla Foundation). The program includes free Lear to Skate Program for 
elementary school children, transportation and equipment to participating 
youth, cross-country season pass and rental equipment, and other recre-
ational opportunities to diverse youth populations such as children with 
special needs, children from low-income households, and racial and ethnic 
minority students.
19. UOLF received $76 million after the 2002 Winter Games for use as a Legacy 
Fund. The Legacy Fund can be used for various purposes that align with the 
UOLF’s mission to ensure these venues remain active and contribute to sports 
development, community engagement, and economic impact in the region.
20. Department of Tourism, Innovation and Sport. (2021). Brisbane 2032 
Olympic and Paralympic Games: Preliminary economic, social, and 
environmental analysis. KPMG.
21. Williams, T., Lakhani, A. & Spelten, E. Exploring the relationship between 
loneliness and volunteering amongst Australian adults: a cross-sectional 
study. BMC Public Health 24, 269 (2024). https://doi.org/10.1186/s12889-
024-17807-4
22. Williams, T., Lakhani, A. & Spelten, E. Exploring the relationship between 
loneliness and volunteering amongst Australian adults: a cross-sectional 
study. BMC Public Health 24, 269 (2024). https://doi.org/10.1186/s12889-
024-17807-4
23. Giancaspro, M. L., & Manuti, A. (2021). Learning to Be Employable Through 
Volunteering: A Qualitative Study on the Development of Employability 
Capital of Young People. Frontiers in psychology, 12, 574232.
24. Davies, B., Abrams, D., Horsham, Z. et al. The Causal Relationship Between 
Volunteering and Social Cohesion: A Large Scale Analysis of Secondary 
Longitudinal Data. Soc Indic Res 171, 809–825 (2024). https://doi.
org/10.1007/s11205-023-03268-6
25. Borisov, I. V., & Vinogradov, S. (2018). The role of social cohesion in social and 
economic processes. Business and management sciences: New challenges 
in theory and practice, 521–539. https://www.researchgate.net/publica-
tion/329656315.
26. Williams, T., Lakhani, A. & Spelten, E. Exploring the relationship between 
loneliness and volunteering amongst Australian adults: a cross-sectional 
study. BMC Public Health 24, 269 (2024). https://doi.org/10.1186/s12889-
024-17807-
27. See Table 3-1 in Appendix 3 for a sampling of major Olympic-related World 
Cups and Championships hosted in Utah at the Olympic venues since 2002, 
along with national championships, cups, and Olympic trials.
28. The IOC requires Olympic host sites to have a plan for sustainability and 
legacy of Olympic assets, experience hosting quality international events 
and athletes, and use facilities to their maximum capacity.
150
(EC) UtahOlyLegFound Jul2024
Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute Staff   and Advisors
Leadership Team
Natalie Gochnour, Associate Dean and Director
Jennifer Robinson, Chief of Staff  
Mallory Bateman, Director of Demographic Research
Phil Dean, Chief Economist and Senior Research Fellow 
Shelley Kruger, Director of Accounting and Finance
Colleen Larson, Administrative Manager
Nate Lloyd, Director of Economic Research 
Dianne Meppen, Director of Community Research
Laura Summers, Director of Industry Research
Nicholas Thiriot, Communications Director 
James A. Wood, Ivory-Boyer Senior Fellow
Staff  
Eric Albers, Senior Natural Resources Policy Analyst
Samantha Ball, Senior Research Associate
Parker Banta, Public Policy Analyst
Melanie Beagley, Public Policy Analyst
Preston Brightwell, Dignity Index Field Director
Andrea Thomas Brandley, Senior Education Analyst
Kara Ann Byrne, Senior Research Associate
Mike Christensen, Scholar-in-Residence
Nate Christensen, Research Economist 
Moira Dillow, Housing, Construction, and 
Real Estate Analyst
John C. Downen, Senior Research Fellow 
Dejan Eskic, Senior Research Fellow and Scholar
Chance Hansen, Communications Specialist 
Emily Harris, Senior Demographer
Michael T. Hogue, Senior Research Statistician
Mike Hollingshaus, Senior Demographer
Madeleine Jones, Dignity Index Field Director
Jennifer Leaver, Senior Tourism Analyst
Maddy Oritt, Senior Public Finance Economist 
Levi Pace, Senior Research Economist
Praopan Pratoomchat, Senior Research Economist
Heidi Prior, Public Policy Analyst 
Natalie Roney, Research Economist 
Shannon Simonsen, Research Coordinator
Paul Springer, Senior Graphic Designer
Faculty Advisors
Matt Burbank, College of Social and 
Behavioral Science
Elena Patel, David Eccles School of Business
Nathan Seegert, David Eccles School of Business
Senior Advisors
Jonathan Ball, Offi   ce of the Legislative Fiscal Analyst
Silvia Castro, Suazo Business Center
Gary Cornia, Marriott School of Business
Emma Houston, University of Utah
Beth Jarosz, Population Reference Bureau 
Darin Mellott, CBRE
Pamela S. Perlich, University of Utah
Chris Redgrave, Community-at-Large
Juliette Tennert, Community-at-Large
Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute Advisory Board
Conveners
Michael O. Leavitt
Mitt Romney
Board
Scott Anderson, Co-Chair
Gail Miller, Co-Chair
Doug Anderson
Deborah Bayle
Roger Boyer
Michelle Camacho
Sophia M. DiCaro
Cameron Diehl
Kurt Dirks
Lisa Eccles
Spencer P . Eccles
Christian Gardner
Kem C. Gardner
Kimberly Gardner
Natalie Gochnour
Brandy Grace
Jeremy Hafen 
Clark Ivory
Mike S. Leavitt
Derek Miller
Ann Millner
Sterling Nielsen 
Jason Perry
Ray Pickup
Gary B. Porter
Taylor Randall
Jill Remington Love
Brad Rencher 
Josh Romney
Charles W. Sorenson
James Lee Sorenson
Vicki Varela
Ex Oﬃ   cio (invited)
Governor Spencer Cox
Speaker Mike Schultz
Senate President 
Stuart Adams
Representative 
Angela Romero
Senator Luz Escamilla
Mayor Jenny Wilson
Mayor Erin Mendenhall
Partners in the 
Community 
The following individuals 
and entities help support 
the research mission of the 
Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute.
Legacy Partners
The Gardner Company
Christian and Marie 
Gardner Family 
Intermountain Health
Clark and Christine Ivory 
Foundation
KSL and Deseret News
Larry H. & Gail Miller Family 
Foundation
Mountain America Credit Union
Salt Lake City Corporation
Salt Lake County
University of Utah Health
Utah Governor’s Offi   ce of 
Economic Opportunity
WCF Insurance
Zions Bank
Executive Partners
The Boyer Company
Clyde Companies
Sustaining Partners
Dominion Energy
Salt Lake Chamber
Staker Parson Materials and
Construction
Wells Fargo
Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute    I    411 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111    I     801-585-5618    I     gardner.utah.edu
151
 
   
 
To: Colin Hilton, President & CEO Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation  
Cc: Karla Knox, CFO Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation; Calum Clark, COO Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation 
      Laura Summers, Director of Industry Research; Melanie Beagley, Public Policy Analyst (Kem C. Gardner 
Policy Institute) 
From: Nate Lloyd, Director of Economic Research; Praopan Pratoomchat, Ph.D., Senior Research Economist  
(Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute)        
Date: 9/30/2024  
Subject: Economic Contributions of the Utah Olympic Park  
 
Introduction 
At the request of the Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation (UOLF), this memorandum outlines the economic 
contributions of the Utah Olympic Park (UOP). UOLF manages UOP, located in Park City (25 miles east of Salt 
Lake City in Summit County). The venue houses one of North America's only four sliding tracks, six Nordic ski 
jumps, and a 2002 Winter Games Museum. UOP hosts numerous major winter sports competitions and 
provides world-class athlete training while remaining accessible to the general public through youth programs 
and other activities. In this technical memo, the Gardner Institute assesses the economic contributions of UOP 
to Utah’s economy. While not public, this memo complements the research report “A Living Legacy: The Utah 
Olympic Legacy Foundation”, published in July 2024 by the Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute.  
 
Economic Contributions 
The first round of spending, or direct contributions captured in this analysis, include UOP’s employment, 
employee compensation, other operating expenses, and capital expenditures, as well as spending by the 
venue’s visitors. Indirect effects stemmed from the linkages throughout the supply chain. Induced effects reflect 
the income effects of the increased wages and employment within Utah, resulting from the income earned 
from UOP and supporting businesses. Together, direct, indirect, and induced effects sum to total contributions. 
Table 1 summarizes the economic contributions resulting from the UOP venue.  
 
Table 1: UOP’s Economic Contributions Summary, 2023  
(Jobs and Millions of 2023 Dollars)
 
Summary Direct1 Indirect & Induced2 Total2 Multiplier2 
Jobs 216 143 359 1.7x 
Compensation  $7.6 $11.3 $18.9 2.5x 
GDP $23.2 $18.4 $41.6 1.8x 
Notes: 1) Direct jobs and compensation include UOP’s employment and compensation (183 jobs and $5.8 million) and additional jobs 
and compensation created by UOP’s first round of spending (33 jobs and $1.9 million).  
2) Results reflect the midpoint of ranges from two simulation scenarios, each relying on different assumptions about labor markets (see 
Methodology section in Appendix for details). 
Source: Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute analysis of data provided by UOLF. 
 
 
152
2 
Jobs: UOP employed 107 full-time and part-time staff and 287 seasonal employees in UOLF’s Fiscal year (FY) 
2023 (through April 2023). After adjusting the seasonal employees' working hours to be equivalent to full-time 
and part-time, the seasonal employee number reduces from 287 to 76 (see Methodology section in Appendix 
for details). Employment and spending from UOP create ripple effects throughout the economy, indirectly 
supporting an estimated 143 additional jobs across the state. The estimated employment contribution of UOP 
to Utah totals 359 jobs.1 The employment multiplier, which indicates the ratio of all jobs created to those 
directly at UOP, totals 1.7 times, highlighting the broader economic influence of UOP’s operation in Utah. 
 
Compensation: Compensation (wages and benefits) provides an additional perspective on the economic 
contributions of UOP. The initial spending on compensation from jobs at UOP and related businesses totaled 
$7.6 million in FY 2023. After accounting for the multiplier effect, UOP’s activities generate a total 
compensation contribution of $18.9 million, with a compensation multiplier of 2.5x in 2023.  
 
Gross Domestic Product (GDP): GDP represents the total value of all final products and services produced in 
an economy over a specific period. In 2023, UOP’s spending and visitor spending due to the venue’s operations 
amounted to $23.2 million, serving as the final demand for goods and services. These expenditures significantly 
contribute to Utah’s economy, generating an additional $18.4 million in GDP. The GDP multiplier, reflecting the 
economic ripple effects of this spending, represents 1.8 times the initial expenditures.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
153
3 
Appendix  
 
Methodology 
Economic contributions refer to the total value of economic activities generated from the expenditures and 
employment of an industry, an event, or an organization in a specific geographical area. The analysis of UOP’s 
footprint is considered an economic contribution analysis – as opposed to an economic impact analysis - 
because UOLF’s funding includes state appropriations. Without UOLF, those public funds would likely be 
allocated elsewhere in the state due to the nature of state budgets and many competing public policy and 
legislative priorities.  
 
Since UOP already exists in Utah, the main research question asks, “If UOP did not exist, what would happen to 
Utah’s economy?” Negative shocks act as inputs to a dynamic general equilibrium model in REMI PI+ to 
simulate the employment and spending pulled out from the economy. The following section explains the 
details of model inputs: employment, compensation, capital expenditures, and visitor spending. 
 
Model Inputs 
Employment and Compensation - Because a seasonal employee usually works fewer hours than the 
full-time and part-time employees, the team adjusted the seasonal headcount to be comparable with 
other groups. The research team first averaged the annual working hours of full-time, part-time, and 
exempt employees based on their numbers and total hours worked at UOP. The team then derived 
seasonal headcount equivalents by dividing the total hours worked by seasonal employees by the 
average working hours of the combined full-time/part-time/exempt group. This adjustment reduced 
the UOP seasonal employee count from 287 to 76, ensuring accurate employment estimates and 
dynamic effects of the model simulation. 
 
UOLF is registered for unemployment insurance with Utah’s Department of Workforce Services under 
the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code 711310 (Promoters of Performing Arts, 
Sports, and Similar Events with Facilities). The research team applied an industry-specific negative 
employment shock. For the compensation input, the team calculated the difference between the 
model’s average industry compensation and UOP’s compensation ($5.8 million), reflecting a deviation 
from the general equilibrium, and used the difference as an input. 
 
Capital Expenditures - The research team obtained FY 2021-2022 and FY 2022-2023 capital 
expenditure data by venue from UOLF. UOP spent an average of $10.5 million in capital expenditures 
during FY 2021-2023 on construction, furniture, machinery and equipment, computers, IT hardware, and 
vehicles. The research team mapped the capital expenditures to sectors based on NAICS and inputted 
them into the model as exogenous final demand shocks.  
 
Visitor Spending - The research team received data on the number of athletes and general attendees 
at UOP, along with the competition duration for onsite activities.
2 The team used conservative 
coefficients based on feedback from UOLF to estimate the number of spectators at each competition. 
The coefficients vary by level of competition. The team applied 0.1 for international events, meaning if 
there were 100 athletes, an estimated ten spectators would be in attendance. Higher coefficients of 0.5 
and 1.5 were applied for national and regional competitions, respectively. An estimated 57,899 visitors 
to UOP during FY 2023 (consisting of athletes, spectators, and the general public) contributed to Utah’s 
economy during their visits. Additionally, the research team acquired 2022-2023 visitor spending data 
154
4 
from Omnitrak's city survey, which includes spending on accommodation, retail, rental services, and 
entertainment. The team used Park City’s general leisure visitor spending data to estimate the total 
spending and distribution of spending by expense category. On average, visitor expenditures at UOP 
totaled $6.91 million annually from 2022 to 2023. Accommodation and Food Services represent the 
majority of overall UOP visitor spending.  
 
Full Model Results 
The Gardner Institute conducted this analysis using REMI PI+, version 3.1.0, an economic modeling software 
with a county-level model and two labor market scenarios. In the first scenario, the industry's labor market is 
non-competitive, meaning labor demand is completely exogenous. Increased employment from UOP would 
not draw workers from other organizations in the same or related sectors. In the second scenario, the 
competitive labor market allows UOP to pull workers from other companies in the same industry. Typically, the 
first scenario, with the addition of exogenous labor, leads to greater migration, population, and total economic 
contributions than the second scenario. The table below presents results in ranges from these two scenarios to 
capture uncertainties in the market and to illustrate the inherent uncertainty in estimating economic 
contributions. In addition to uncertainty arising from labor market assumptions, uncertainty comes from a lack 
of data on non-compensation operating expenditures by venue. Therefore, the model uses the average 
intermediate input share for the broader Arts, Entertainment, and Recreation industry rather than UOP-specific 
data.  
 
Table 2: UOP’s Economic Contributions - Full Model Results, 2023  
(Jobs and Millions of 2023 Dollars) 
 
Summary Direct1 Indirect & Induced Total Multiplier 
Jobs 216 (-12) – 298 204 – 514 0.9 – 2.4x 
Compensation  $7.6 $4.1 – $18.5 $11.7 – $26.1 1.5 – 3.4x 
GDP $23.2 $4.2 – $32.6 $27.4 – $55.8 1.2 – 2.4x 
Note: 1) Direct jobs and compensation include UOP’s employment and compensation (183 jobs and $5.8 million) and additional jobs 
and compensation created by UOP’s first round of spending (33 jobs and $1.9 million).  
Source: Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute analysis of data provided by UOLF. 
 
 
Endnotes 
1 The number represents the midpoint of the statewide total contribution (204-514 jobs). Summit County received the 
greatest share of the effects from UOP activities by increasing 250-318 jobs from the net total of 204-514 jobs. The 
number of additional jobs in Summit County is higher than the net total employment in the first scenario (250>204) 
because other counties lose more labor from the competitive labor market compared to the number of created jobs in 
Summit County. 
2 General attendees represent a lower-bound estimate since data only capture general public visitors who sign a waiver 
when visiting a venue. Many visitors are not required to sign waivers but they still contribute to Utah’s economy through 
their spending. 
155
MINUTES
SUMMIT COUNTY
Snyderville Basin Planning Commission Meeting
SHELDON RICHINS BUILDING
1885 WEST UTE BOULEVARD, PARK CITY, UT, 84098
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2025
Meeting also conducted via Zoom.
DRAFT
Tyann Mooney
Makena Hawley
Matthew Nagie
Heather Peteroy
Eric Sagerman
Peter Barnes
Lynda Viti
Amir Caus
Laura Kuhrmeyer
Ray Milliner
Madalyn McDonough
Amy Price
Brian Craven
Clive Bridgwater
Colin Hilton
Chris Conabee
Thomas Wadsworth
Jamie Kimball
Welcome/Attendance
Work Session (4:30 P.M.)
1) Work Session regarding a Master Planned Development
application for the Latitudes project, a 5-building mixed use project
located at 6417 N Pace Frontage Rd, Silver Summit, Summit
County, UT; Parcel SCBP-10-2AM; Applicant: Clive Bridgwater
representing Fisher Creek, LLC (Roger Arsht and Ron Sharp);
Administrative Process. Project #25-001, 25-002, and 25-003. Amir
Caus, AICP, Senior Planner. (4:30 P.M.)
156
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Latitudes MPD-NMU Staff Report - October 14, 2025 SBPC
Work Session.pdf
Amir Caus, AICP, Senior Planner, briefly introduced the project and
turned the time over to the applicant, Clive Bridgewater, representing
Fisher Creek, LLC, for the work session discussion. (4:30 P.M.)
Clive Bridgwater, Applicant, addressed the Commission regarding a
Master Planned Development application for the Latitudes project with a
focus on the NMU rezone option. Mr. Bridgwater sought feedback and
support from the Commission. He specifically asked them to consider
whether or not the Silver Summit Business Park was an appropriate
place and solution for the NMU rezone. (4:31 P.M.)
Commissioner Peteroy began the discussion by asking questions about
the requirements for a transit center, clarification on the restrictions for a
55+ community and nightly rentals, increased traffic in the area, reduced
commercial space, and increased housing units. (4:42 P.M.)
Commissioner Hawley requested clarification on the amenities being
open to the public. She inquired about the potential for a tree wall
between the property and the freeway, and a follow-up regarding the
intention behind the active aging population. (4:59 P.M.)
Commissioner Sagerman circled back to the issue of transportation and
sought clarification on the idea of a private shuttle being available
through the HOA. He asked for information on the proposed bike paths
and the potential for the commercial space including a restaurant, and
additional clarity on parking spaces. (5:11 P.M.)
Commissioner Nagie provided general comments on items that had
already been addressed. He raised concerns regarding the number of
commercial amenities being proposed, provided feedback on the transit
center discussion, and pondered how the Commission could best give
an applicant the ability to do more with their 8 acres if they don’t own the
whole community. (5:20 P.M.)
Commission Chair Mooney inquired about the stormwater management
system and a recycling center. She commented on the availability of the
bike path and the proposed sustainability features. She raised concerns
about the lack of commercial things to keep people in the community in
order to reduce driving. (5:26 P.M.)
Commissioners provided final comments on the project. (5:36 P.M.)
Mr. Bridgwater expressed his appreciation to the Commissioners. (5:54
P.M.)
Commissioner Young joined the meeting at 6:00 P.M.
Regular Session (6:04 P.M.)
157
Tyann Mooney
Makena Hawley
Matthew Nagie
Spencer Young
Heather Peteroy
Eric Sagerman
Peter Barnes
Lynda Viti
Amir Caus
Laura Kuhrmeyer
Ray Milliner
Madalyn McDonough
Amy Price
Brian Craven
Clive Bridgwater
Colin Hilton
Chris Conabee
Thomas Wadsworth
Jamie Kimball
1) Public comments for items not on the agenda or pending
applications. (6:06 P.M.)
Commission Chair Mooney opened the meeting for public input at 6:06
p.m.
No one came forward to speak.
Commission Chair Mooney closed the meeting for public input at 6:08
p.m.
2) Public Hearing and possible recommendation to the Summit
County Council regarding a proposed Amendment to the
Development Agreement for the Utah Olympic Park Specially
Planned Area. Parcels PP-63-A, PP-62-3-UAF, KJS-6-1AM, PP-62-
KJS, PP-62-4, and PP-62-KJS, located in Summit County, Utah.
 Applicant: Utah Olympic Legacy Foundation (UOLF). Legislative
Process. Project #25-111. Laura Kuhrmeyer, County Planner. (6:08
P.M. )
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Project 25-111 UOP DA Amend SBPC Staff Report and
Exhibits 10.14.25
Laura Kuhrmeyer, Planner, presented the proposed amendments to the
development agreement for the Utah Olympic Park Specially Planned
Area for recommendation to the County Council. Additionally, Planner
Kuhrmeyer reviewed questions that had been discussed during the
August work session. (6:09 P.M.)
Colin Hilton, CEO UOLF, presented a brief historical overview of the
Specially Planned Area and responded to concerns raised during the
work session. Mr. Hilton provided clarification on the proposed changes
to the development agreement.
Thomas Wadsworth and Chris Conabee of Utah Development and
Construction discussed anticipated traffic impacts resulting from the
proposed changes to the project. (6:36 P.M.)
Chris Conabee presented plans for the proposed hotel. (6:46 P.M.)
158
Commissioners asked brief clarifying questions to which the applicants
responded. (7:01 P.M.)
Commission Chair Mooney opened the meeting for public hearing at
7:36 p.m.
Scott McIntosh was called to speak at 7:37 p.m.
Nic Schapper was called to speak at 7:41 p.m.
Jorge Velarde was called to speak at 7:47 p.m.
Merta Haley was called to speak at 7:52 p.m.
Shawn Keve was called to speak at 7:56 p.m.
Larry Ballash was called to speak at 7:59 p.m.
Cheryl Duckworth was called to speak at 8:02 p.m.
Erin Ferguson was called to speak at 8:05 p.m.
Tom Lunzer was called to speak at 8:08 p.m.
Staci McIntosh was called to speak at 8:10 p.m.
Bill Wade was called to speak at 8:15 p.m.
Bob Devaney was called to speak at 8:22 p.m.
Linda George was called to speak at 8:23 p.m.
Commission Chair Mooney closed the public hearing at 8:25 p.m.
Applicants responded to the questions raised during the public hearing.
(8:26 P.M.)
Commission Members asked questions and sought additional clarity
regarding concerns heard during the public hearing. (9:04 P.M.)
Community Development Director Peter Barnes provided additional
information to the Commission regarding the process of providing a
recommendation to the County Council. Discussion on the proposal
continued. (9:25 P.M.)
Matthew Nagie made a motion to move the application to a date
certain of Tuesday, November 25th. Makena Hawley seconded, and
all voted in favor, (6-0). Absent: Tim Jeffrey.
Attachment: Public Comment
Attachment: Public Comment List of Names
159
3) Public hearing and possible recommendation to the County
Council for amendments to the Snyderville Basin General Plan to
Create Section 8, Sustainable Development, Water Use and
Agriculture. Legislative Process. Ray Milliner, Principal Planner. (9:46
P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Basin Staff Report October 16, 2025.pdf
Ray Milliner, Principal Planner, introduced the need for creation of a
water element in the general plan in order to be in compliance with state
law. (9:46 P.M.)
Madalyn McDonough, Economic Development and Housing Manager,
presented background information regarding the regional water
conservation goal set by Governor Cox. She reiterated the legislative
mandate for the county to implement a Water Use and Preservation
element in the General Plan by December 31, 2025. (9:48 P.M.)
Commission Chair Mooney opened the meeting for public hearing at
9:56 p.m.
No one came forward to speak.
Commission Chair Mooney closed the meeting for public hearing at 9:56
p.m.
Commissioners asked brief clarifying questions to which Ms.
McDonough and Mr. Milliner responded. (9:57 P.M.)
Spencer Young made a motion to forward the proposed
amendment to the Snyderville Basin General Plan to the Summit
County Council with a positive recommendation per the findings
fact and conclusions of law found in the staff report. Makena
Hawley seconded, and all voted in favor, (6-0). Absent: Tim Jeffrey.
4) Discussion/Update on the housing element of the Snyderville
Basin General Plan. Peter Barnes, Community Development Director,
Maddy McDonough, Economic Development and Housing Manager.
(10:02 P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: SR_10.14.25_Basin.pdf
Attachment: Affordable Housing Terms_Oct 25.pdf
Attachment: MISSING MIDDLE HOUSING TOOLKIT.pdf
Attachment: Olympic-Monograph-Sep2025-Final.pdf
Community Development Director Peter Barnes introduced the housing
element of the Snyderville Basin General Plan and turned the remaining
time over to Madalyn McDonough, Economic Development and Housing
Manager, to provide an update. (10:02 P.M.)
160
Ms. McDonough provided an update on strategic plans with regard to
housing and the goals, policies, and strategies for implementation.
(10:03 P.M.)
Commissioners provided brief comments and suggestions to Ms.
McDonough. (10:15 P.M.)
5) Approval of Minutes: August 26, 2025, September 9, 2025, and
September 23, 2025. (10:23 P.M.)
Attachment: Cover Page
Attachment: Draft SBPC Minutes 08.26.25.pdf
Attachment: Draft SBPC Minutes 09.09.25.pdf
Attachment: Draft SBPC Minutes 09.23.25.pdf
Approval of the minutes for August 26, 2025, and September 9, 2025,
was moved to the October 28, 2025, meeting.
Eric Sagerman made a motion to approve the minutes dated
September 23, 2025. Heather Peteroy seconded, and all voted in
favor, (5-0). Absent: Tim Jeffrey. Abstain: Makena Hawley.
Commission Items (10:23 P.M.)
Commissioner Sagerman brought up two issues that came up during the
meeting: Community Engagement & Community Maps. (10:23 P.M.)
Director Items (10:25 P.M)
Director Barnes suggested bringing back the idea of a planning commission
retreat. (10:25 P.M.)
Adjournment (10:27 P.M.)
Heather Peteroy made a motion to adjourn. Makena Hawley seconded,
and all voted in favor, (6-0). Absent: Tim Jeffrey.
Meeting minutes and recordings appear at summitcountyutah.gov/meetings. When in
the electronic version of the minutes, clicking on the hyperlinked times takes you to
that spot in the meeting recording.
161
/0/1/2/3/4 /5/6
/6/3/0/0/1/4/i255/8/9/3/2/4/10
/11/12/13/14/15/16/17/18/19/19/15/i255/21/22/23/18/12/i255/24/19/22/12/12/18/12/25/i255/26/27/28/28/18/23/23/18/27/12/i255/29/15/15/30/18/12/25
/11/31/32/33/34/35/36/i255/37/38/26/31/38/36/11/i255/21/39/38/33/34/38/36/40
/41/42/42/43/i255/44/32/11/45/i255/39/45/32/i255/21/35/39/33/32/46/47/37/34/48/i255/24/47/37/49/i255/26/38/45/50/48/i255/39/45/48/i255/42/51/52/53/42
/45/39/32/11/34/47/50/48/i255/34/32/26/32/29/21/32/37/i255/53/48/i255/54/52/54/43
/29/15/15/30/18/12/25/i255/22/19/23/27/i255/55/27/12/14/56/55/30/15/14/i255/17/18/22/i255/57/27/27/28/58
/59/60/61/62/4
/45/13/22/12/12/i255/29/27/27/12/15/13
/29/22/63/15/12/22/i255/31/22/64/19/15/13
/11/65/15/12/55/15/16/i255/50/27/56/12/25
/45/18/28/i255/66/15/67/67/16/15/13
/31/15/22/30/68/15/16/i255/24/15/30/15/16/27/13
/32/16/18/55/i255/11/22/25/15/16/28/22/12
/24/15/30/15/16/i255/21/22/16/12/15/23
/33/13/12/14/22/i255/46/18/30/18
/37/22/13/i255/29/18/19/19/18/12/15/16
/45/18/67/67/22/12/18/15/i255/36/58/i255/37/27/69/18/12/23/27/12
/29/56/23/30/22/65/68/22/i255/35/23/28/22/12
/47/28/13/i255/24/16/18/55/15
/21/16/18/22/12/i255/26/16/22/17/15/12
/11/30/15/17/18/15/i255/29/15/18/15/16
/66/22/23/27/12/i255/37/18/55/63/22/16/14
/11/65/15/12/55/15/16/i255/44/68/18/30/15
/70/71/72/73/74/75/71/76/61/77/77/71/78/79/80/78/73/71
/60/71/81/82/72/80/83/i255/6/71/84/84/85/74/78/i255/86/87/88/52/54/i255/24/58/29/58/89
/41/89/90 /91/92/93/94/95/i255/95/97/98/98/99/100/101/102/i255/103/97/104/i255/94/101/99/98/102/i255/100/97/101/i255/97/100/i255/101/105/99/i255/106/107/99/100/108/106/i255/97/104/i255/109/99/100/108/94/100/107
/106/109/109/93/94/95/106/101/94/97/100/102/110/i255/86/87/88/52/54/i255/24/58/29/58/89
/26/27/28/28/18/23/23/18/27/12/15/16/i255/31/22/64/19/15/13/i255/27/65/15/12/15/14/i255/30/68/15/i255/28/15/15/30/18/12/25/i255/67/27/16/i255/65/56/69/19/18/55/i255/18/12/65/56/30/i255/22/30/i255/87/88/52/111/i255/65/58/28/58
/36/27/i255/27/12/15/i255/55/22/28/15/i255/67/27/16/64/22/16/14/i255/30/27/i255/23/65/15/22/63/58
/26/27/28/28/18/23/23/18/27/12/i255/31/22/64/19/15/13/i255/55/19/27/23/15/14/i255/30/68/15/i255/28/15/15/30/18/12/25/i255/67/27/16/i255/65/56/69/19/18/55/i255/18/12/65/56/30/i255/22/30/i255/87/88/52/111/i255/65/58/28/58
/54/89/90 /91/92/93/94/95/i255/105/99/106/104/94/100/107/i255/106/100/108/i255/106/95/101/94/97/100/i255/104/99/107/106/104/108/94/100/107/i255/106/i255/90/93/106/101/i255/112/98/99/100/108/98/99/100/101/i255/94/100/i255/101/105/99
/113/94/98/92/99/104/93/94/100/99/i255/114/i255/102/91/92/108/94/115/94/102/94/97/100/116/i255/117/118/119/119/i255/120/99/108/106/104/i255/121/106/122/i255/90/106/104/123/i255/120/94/101/122/116/i255/90/106/104/95/99/93/i255/113/124/125/114/125/126/127
/128/i255/113/124/125/114/125/126/126/116/i255/112/109/109/93/94/95/106/100/101/129/i255/113/97/100/94/i255/130/106/98/109/102/105/94/104/99/116/i255/131/132/100/99/104/133/102/134/129/i255/113/97/100/94/i255/130/106/98/109/102/105/94/104/99/116
162
/0/1/2/3/4/3/5/6/7/8/6/3/9/10/i255/12/10/9/3/10/13/14/i255/15/7/16/17/10/18/6/i255/19/20/21/22/23/24/25/i255/26/27/5/6/8/28/29/8/i255/30/5/2/8/4/31/i255/32/16/27/4/6/33
/15/34/8/4/4/10/7/14/i255/36/37/38/39/40/i255/42/43/44/43/45
/46/47/47/48/49/50/51/52/53/47/38/i255/54/55/56/52/57/i255/42/48/58/52
/46/47/47/48/49/50/51/52/53/47/38/i255/59/47/48/60/60/i255/61/52/62/55/57/47/i255/63/64/65/66/37/67/43/62/68/60
/46/47/47/48/49/50/51/52/53/47/38/i255/69/70/51/71/52/57/72/70/53/52/i255/42/57/52/73/52/53/47/48/47/70/55/53
/44/74/73/47/48/62/50/48/i255/75/73/51/48/53/76/i255/77/78/79/80/80/81/82/76/i255/62/57/52/73/52/53/47/52/68/i255/48/i255/62/72/48/47/i255/48/51/52/53/68/51/52/53/47/i255/70/53/i255/47/50/52
/69/70/51/71/52/57/72/48/53/68/i255/66/i255/59/74/71/68/70/56/70/73/70/55/53/i255/48/47/i255/83/84/67/67/i255/54/52/68/48/57/i255/85/48/86/43/i255/36/37/38/39/64/i255/42/43/44/43/45
/54/55/51/51/70/73/73/70/55/53/52/57/i255/87/48/88/72/52/86/i255/55/62/52/53/52/68/i255/47/50/52/i255/51/52/52/47/70/53/58/i255/60/55/57/i255/62/74/71/72/70/49/i255/50/52/48/57/70/53/58/i255/48/47/i255/37/38/39/37
/62/43/51/43
/59/47/52/56/70/52/i255/44/52/70/52/57/i255/88/48/73/i255/49/48/72/72/52/68/i255/47/55/i255/73/62/52/48/89/i255/48/47/i255/37/38/39/83/i255/62/43/51/43
/54/55/51/51/70/73/73/70/55/53/52/57/i255/87/48/88/72/52/86/i255/49/72/55/73/52/68/i255/47/50/52/i255/51/52/52/47/70/53/58/i255/60/55/57/i255/62/74/71/72/70/49/i255/50/52/48/57/70/53/58/i255/48/47/i255/37/38/39/84
/62/43/51/43
/54/55/51/51/70/73/73/70/55/53/52/57/73/i255/90/55/74/53/58/76/i255/42/52/47/52/57/55/86/76/i255/48/53/68/i255/59/48/58/52/57/51/48/53/i255/48/73/89/52/68/i255/49/72/48/57/70/60/86/70/53/58
/91/74/52/73/47/70/55/53/73/i255/48/71/55/74/47/i255/47/50/52/i255/60/52/52/73/i255/48/73/73/55/49/70/48/47/52/68/i255/88/70/47/50/i255/47/50/52/i255/69/70/51/71/52/57/72/70/53/52/i255/59/62/52/49/70/48/72/i255/59/52/57/56/70/49/52
/92/70/73/47/57/70/49/47/43/i255/46/47/47/55/57/53/52/86/i255/93/86/53/68/48/i255/94/70/47/70/i255/57/52/73/62/55/53/68/52/68/i255/47/55/i255/47/50/52/70/57/i255/49/55/53/49/52/57/53/73/43/i255/36/37/38/66/39/i255/42/43/44/43/45
/54/55/51/51/70/73/73/70/55/53/52/57/i255/42/52/47/52/57/55/86/i255/48/73/89/52/68/i255/48/i255/60/55/72/72/55/88/65/74/62/i255/91/74/52/73/47/70/55/53/i255/57/52/58/48/57/68/70/53/58/i255/73/74/71/68/70/56/70/68/70/53/58
/47/50/52/i255/72/55/47/i255/48/47/i255/48/i255/60/74/47/74/57/52/i255/68/48/47/52/43/i255/42/52/47/52/57/i255/95/48/57/53/52/73/76/i255/96/97/98/98/99/80/100/101/102/i255/103/81/104/81/78/97/105/98/81/80/101/i255/103/100/82/81/106/101/97/82/76
/57/52/73/62/55/53/68/52/68/i255/47/55/i255/47/50/52/i255/91/74/52/73/47/70/55/53/43/i255/36/37/38/66/39/i255/42/43/44/43/45
/54/55/51/51/70/73/73/70/55/53/i255/54/50/48/70/57/i255/44/55/55/53/52/86/i255/48/73/89/52/68/i255/60/55/57/i255/50/70/73/47/55/57/70/49/48/72/i255/70/53/60/55/57/51/48/47/70/55/53/i255/57/52/58/48/57/68/70/53/58/i255/47/50/52
/48/62/62/72/70/49/48/47/70/55/53/43/i255/69/55/53/70/i255/87/48/51/62/73/50/70/57/52/76/i255/107/105/105/78/100/106/79/80/101/76/i255/48/53/68/i255/92/70/57/52/49/47/55/57/i255/95/48/57/53/52/73/i255/57/52/73/62/55/53/68/52/68
/47/55/i255/50/52/57/i255/91/74/52/73/47/70/55/53/43/i255/36/37/38/66/108/i255/42/43/44/43/45
/109/110/111/112/113/111/114/i255/116/117/118/112/119/i255/120/121/122/111/i255/121/i255/120/117/123/124/117/112/i255/123/117/i255/121/110/110/114/117/125/111/i255/123/126/111/i255/121/110/110/127/124/113/121/112/123/128/129/i255/114/111/130/118/111/129/123
/123/117/i255/113/117/120/131/124/112/111/i255/132/124/120/131/111/114/127/124/112/111/i255/110/121/114/113/111/127/129/i255/133/134/135/136/i255/121/112/122/i255/133/134/135/135/i255/121/113/113/117/114/122/124/112/119/i255/123/117/i255/123/126/111
/137/124/112/122/124/112/119/129/i255/117/137/i255/137/121/113/123/138/i255/113/117/112/113/127/118/129/124/117/112/129/i255/117/137/i255/127/121/139/138/i255/121/112/122/i255/113/117/112/122/124/123/124/117/112/129/i255/117/137/i255/121/110/110/114/117/125/121/127
/137/117/118/112/122/i255/124/112/i255/123/126/111/i255/129/123/121/137/137/i255/114/111/110/117/114/123/i255/140/141/142/143/144/i255/145/146/147/146/148/146/i255/132/124/120/i255/149/111/137/137/114/111/150/i255/129/111/113/117/112/122/111/122/138/i255/121/112/122/i255/123/126/111
/120/117/123/124/117/112/i255/113/121/114/114/124/111/122/138/i255/140/136/134/143/148/146
/147/121/151/111/112/121/i255/152/121/139/127/111/150/i255/125/117/123/111/122/i255/153/116/154
/109/110/111/112/113/111/114/i255/116/117/118/112/119/i255/125/117/123/111/122/i255/153/116/154
/132/124/120/i255/149/111/137/137/114/111/150/i255/125/117/123/111/122/i255/153/116/154
/152/111/121/123/126/111/114/i255/145/111/123/111/114/117/150/i255/125/117/123/111/122/i255/153/116/154
/132/150/121/112/112/i255/147/117/117/112/111/150/i255/125/117/123/111/122/i255/155/153/116
/154/114/124/113/i255/109/121/119/111/114/120/121/112/i255/125/117/123/111/122/i255/155/153/116
/153/131/129/111/112/123/142/i255/147/121/123/123/126/111/139/i255/155/121/119/124/111
/108/45/156/3/5/18/27/5/5/3/16/4/i255/8/4/1/i255/12/10/18/16/2/2/10/4/1/8/6/3/16/4/i255/157/16/7/i255/6/29/10/i255/12/10/5/16/7/6/i255/32/16/7/10/i255/156/10/9/10/34/16/28/2/10/4/6
/0/7/10/8/i255/26/8/5/6/10/7/i255/15/34/8/6/i255/12/32/20/158/i255/159/3/4/8/34/i255/160/27/161/1/3/9/3/5/3/16/4/i255/15/34/8/6/i255/16/4/i255/28/8/7/18/10/34/5/i255/15/15/22/20/22/32/22/23/31
/15/15/22/20/22/156/22/20/31/i255/15/15/22/20/22/156/22/23/31/i255/15/15/22/20/22/156/31/i255/15/15/22/20/22/156/22/162/31/i255/15/15/22/20/22/163/31/i255/15/15/22/20/22/164/31/i255/15/15/22/20/22/164/22/20/31/i255/15/15/22
/20/22/164/22/0/31/i255/8/4/1/i255/15/15/22/20/22/163/22/20/22/163/22/165/31/i255/34/16/18/8/6/10/1/i255/16/4/i255/166/3/167/29/i255/26/16/27/4/6/8/3/4/i255/12/16/8/1/i255/8/6
/32/8/4/33/16/4/5/i255/12/10/5/16/7/6/14/i255/0/1/2/3/4/3/5/6/7/8/6/3/9/10/i255/12/10/9/3/10/13/14/i255/i255/0/28/28/34/3/18/8/4/6/168/i255/12/16/161/161/3/10
/169/29/16/2/28/5/16/4/31/i255/8/27/6/29/16/7/3/170/10/1/i255/7/10/28/7/10/5/10/4/6/8/6/3/9/10/14/i255/15/7/16/17/10/18/6/i255/19/20/21/22/171/172/158/14/i255/169/3/157/157/8/4/3/10/i255/173/14
/12/16/161/3/4/5/16/4/31/i255/160/10/4/3/16/7/i255/15/34/8/4/4/10/7/14/i255/36/37/38/63/64/i255/42/43/44/43/45
/46/47/47/48/49/50/51/52/53/47/38/i255/54/55/56/52/57/i255/42/48/58/52
163
/0/1/1/2/3/4/5/6/7/1/8/i255/10/11/12/13/i255/14/15/7/2/16/i255/17/18/19/20/i255/17/21/22/11/i255/23/15/24/3/i255/25/12/26/27/28/26/12/27/12/29/i255/17/1/2/30/30/i255/10/6/31/32/33/1/i255/34
/35/12/29/34/27/28/13
/0/1/1/2/3/4/5/6/7/1/8/i255/10/6/24/32/33/1/i255/11/32/33/6/i255/22/33/6/24/6/7/1/2/1/15/32/7
/36/15/30/30/2/7/37/i255/10/32/19/15/7/24/32/7/38/i255/39/40/41/42/43/44/i255/46/47/48/41/41/40/44/38/i255/31/33/6/24/6/7/1/6/20/i255/1/4/6/i255/10/6/24/32/33/1/i255/11/32/33/6
/23/6/49/6/16/32/31/5/6/7/1/i255/0/33/6/2/i255/50/2/24/1/6/33/i255/22/16/2/1/i255/10/11/12/13/i255/14/15/7/2/16/i255/17/18/19/20/15/49/15/24/15/32/7/i255/22/16/2/1/26/i255/51/52/8/12/29/i255/22/26/50/26/53
/54/2/24/32/7/i255/10/15/3/55/2/33/20/38/i255/56/57/57/47/42/58/48/41/59/38/i255/19/33/15/6/30/16/37/i255/2/20/20/33/6/24/24/6/20/i255/1/4/6/i255/3/32/5/5/15/24/24/15/32/7/i255/2/7/20
/1/4/2/7/55/6/20/i255/24/1/2/30/30/i255/30/32/33/i255/1/4/6/15/33/i255/60/32/33/55/26/i255/51/52/8/61/25/i255/22/26/50/26/53
/11/32/5/5/15/24/24/15/32/7/6/33/i255/17/2/62/6/33/5/2/7/i255/2/24/55/6/20/i255/30/32/33/i255/3/16/2/33/15/30/15/3/2/1/15/32/7/i255/33/6/62/2/33/20/15/7/62/i255/1/4/6/i255/6/63/31/2/7/24/15/32/7
/32/30/i255/64/15/62/4/i255/50/32/18/7/1/2/15/7/i255/10/32/2/20/26/i255/22/16/2/7/7/6/33/i255/10/32/19/15/7/24/32/7/i255/2/7/20/i255/50/33/26/i255/10/15/3/55/2/33/20/i255/33/6/24/31/32/7/20/6/20/26
/51/52/8/61/25/i255/22/26/50/26/53
/11/32/5/5/15/24/24/15/32/7/6/33/i255/22/6/1/6/33/32/37/i255/2/24/55/6/20/i255/30/32/33/i255/3/16/2/33/15/1/37/i255/32/7/i255/16/32/60/34/15/5/31/2/3/1/i255/31/6/33/5/15/1/24/i255/60/15/1/4/15/7/i255/1/4/6
/2/33/6/2/i255/1/32/i255/60/4/15/3/4/i255/22/16/2/7/7/6/33/i255/10/32/19/15/7/24/32/7/i255/33/6/31/16/15/6/20/26/i255/51/52/8/61/12/i255/22/26/50/26/53
/65/66/67/68/69/67/70/i255/72/73/74/68/75/i255/76/77/78/67/i255/77/i255/76/73/79/80/73/68/i255/79/73/i255/81/73/70/82/77/70/78/i255/79/83/67/i255/66/70/73/66/73/84/67/78/i255/85/67/84/73/70/79
/86/73/70/67/i255/87/67/88/67/89/73/66/76/67/68/79/i255/90/70/67/77/i255/85/86/91/92/i255/93/80/68/77/89/i255/65/74/94/78/80/88/80/84/80/73/68/i255/95/89/77/79/i255/77/69/69/73/70/78/80/68/75/i255/79/73
/79/83/67/i255/81/80/68/78/80/68/75/84/i255/73/81/i255/81/77/69/79/96/i255/69/73/68/69/89/74/84/80/73/68/84/i255/73/81/i255/89/77/82/96/i255/77/68/78/i255/69/73/68/78/80/79/80/73/68/84/i255/73/81/i255/77/66/66/70/73/88/77/89
/80/68/i255/79/83/67/i255/84/79/77/81/81/i255/70/67/66/73/70/79/i255/97/98/99/100/92/i255/95/101/102/101/103/101/i255/104/105/77/68/68/i255/102/73/73/68/67/105/i255/84/67/69/73/68/78/67/78/96/i255/77/68/78/i255/77/89/89
/88/73/79/67/78/i255/80/68/i255/81/77/88/73/70/96/i255/97/98/106/107/103/101/i255/90/94/84/67/68/79/99/i255/102/77/79/79/83/67/82/i255/108/77/75/80/67/101
/11/32/5/5/15/24/24/15/32/7/6/33/i255/109/32/18/7/62/i255/2/5/6/7/20/6/20/i255/4/15/24/i255/5/32/1/15/32/7/i255/2/1/i255/52/8/13/110/i255/31/26/5/26
/65/66/67/68/69/67/70/i255/72/73/74/68/75/i255/76 /77/78/67/i255/77/i255/76 /73/79/80/73/68/i255/79/73/i255/81/73/70/82/77/70/78/i255/77/i255/66/73/84/80/79/80/88/67
/70/67/69/73/76/76/67/68/78/77/79/80/73/68/i255/79/73/i255/79/83/67/i255/86/73/74/68/79/105/i255/102/77/68/77/75/67/70/i255/81/73/70/i255/79/83/67/i255/66/70/73/66/73/84/67/78/i255/85/67/84/73/70/79
/86/73/70/67/i255/87/67/88/67/89/73/66/76/67/68/79/i255/90/70/67/77/i255/85/86/91/92/i255/93/80/68/77/89/i255/65/74/94/78/80/88/80/84/80/73/68/i255/95/89/77/79/i255/77/69/69/73/70/78/80/68/75/i255/79/73
/79/83/67/i255/81/80/68/78/80/68/75/84/i255/73/81/i255/81/77/69/79/96/i255/69/73/68/69/89/74/84/80/73/68/84/i255/73/81/i255/89/77/82/96/i255/77/68/78/i255/69/73/68/78/80/79/80/73/68/84/i255/73/81/i255/77/66/66/70/73/88/77/89
/80/68/i255/79/83/67/i255/84/79/77/81/81/i255/70/67/66/73/70/79/i255/97/98/99/92/111/i255/95/101/102/101/103/101/i255/104/105/77/68/68/i255/102/73/73/68/67/105/i255/84/67/69/73/68/78/67/78/96/i255/77/68/78/i255/77/89/89
/88/73/79/67/78/i255/80/68/i255/81/77/88/73/70/96/i255/97/98/106/107/103/101/i255/90/94/84/67/68/79/99/i255/102/77/79/79/83/67/82/i255/108/77/75/80/67/101
/13/53/112/113/114/115/116/114/114/113/117/118/i255/120/118/121/i255/122/123/115/117/124/124/123/118/121/120/125/113/117/118/i255/126/117/127/i255/125/128/123/i255/129 /123/114/125/i255/129 /113/130/130/117/131/i255/112/127/120/131
/112/123/132/123/130/117/133/124/123/118/125/i255/134/127/123/120/i255/135/120/114/125/123/127/i255/136/130/120/125/i255/134/124/123/118/121/123/121/i255/120/118/121/i255/122/137/138/139/i255/129/129/112/140/i255/120/118/121
/129/129/112/141/i255/142/116/143/121/113/132/113/114/113/117/118/i255/136/130/120/125/i255/134/124/123/118/121/124/123/118/125/i255/120/118/121/i255/144/113/118/120/130/i255/142/116/143/121/113/132/113/114/113/117/118/i255/136/130/120/125/i255/117/118
/133/120/127/115/123/130/114/i255/129/129/112/112/134/135/145/129/129/112/145/146/139/i255/129/129/112/112/134/135/145/129/129/112/145/147/139/i255/129/129/112/112/134/135/145/129/129/112/145/138/139
/129/129/112/112/134/135/145/129/129/112/145/148/139/i255/136/136/145/138/140/145/134/139/i255/136/136/145/138/140/145/137/139/i255/136/136/145/138/141/145/134/145/141/139/i255/136/136/145/138/141/145/149/145/146/139/i255/136/145/138/141/145
/149/145/146/145/134/139/i255/136/136/145/138/150/145/151/139/i255/136/136/145/138/141/145/134/145/147/139/i255/136/136/145/138/150/145/151/145/146/139/i255/136/136/145/138/150/145/112/139/i255/136/136/145/138/141/145/149/145/152/139/i255/136/136/145/138/141/145
/134/145/140/145/152/139/i255/136/136/145/138/141/145/134/145/153/145/152/139/i255/136/136/145/138/141/145/149/145/141/139/i255/136/136/145/138/141/145/149/145/154/139/i255/136/136/145/138/141/145/155/139/i255/130/117/115/120/125/123/121/i255/117/118/i255/129/123/114/125
/129/113/130/130/117/131/i255/112/127/120/131/i255/122/117/120/121/i255/120/125/i255/137/120/118/156/117/118/114/i255/122/123/114/117/127/125/157/i255/134/121/124/113/118/113/114/125/127/120/125/113/132/123/i255/122/123/132/113/123/131/157/i255
/134/133/133/130/113/115/120/118/125/158/i255/142/133/123/118/115/123/127/i255/129/128/113/125/123/139/i255/120/116/125/128/117/127/113/159/123/121/i255/127/123/133/127/123/114/123/118/125/120/125/113/132/123/157/i255/136/127/117/160/123/115/125/i255/161/147/141/145
/146/162/141/i255/120/118/121/i255/147/141/145/146/162/154/157/i255/163/113/126/126/120/118/113/123/i255/164/157/i255/122/117/143/113/118/114/117/118/139/i255/142/123/118/113/117/127/i255/136/130/120/118/118/123/127/157/i255/51/52/8/61/29/i255/22/26/50/26/53
/0/1/1/2/3/4/5/6/7/1/8/i255/11/32/49/6/33/i255/22/2/62/6
/0/1/1/2/3/4/5/6/7/1/8/i255/165 /6/24/1/i255/165/15/16/16/32/60/i255/23/33/2/60/i255/0/5/6/7/20/6/20/i255/2/7/20/i255/i255/14/15/7/2/16/i255/22/16/2/1/i255/17/21/22/11
/25/12/26/28/26/12/27/12/29/i255/17/1/2/30/30/i255/10/6/31/32/33/1/i255/34/i255/35/12/29/34/25/27/29/26/31/20/30
/0/1/1/2/3/4/5/6/7/1/8/i255/165/15/16/16/32/60/i255/165/6/24/1/i255/22/33/6/24/6/7/1/2/1/15/32/7
/36/15/30/30/2/7/37/i255/10/32/19/15/7/24/32/7/38/i255/39/40/41/42/43/44/i255/46/47/48/41/41/40/44/38/i255/31/33/6/24/6/7/1/6/20/i255/2/i255/50/2/24/1/6/33/i255/22/16/2/1/i255/0/5/6/7/20/5/6/7/1/38
/17/18/19/20/15/49/15/24/15/32/7/i255/22/16/2/1/i255/0/5/6/7/20/5/6/7/1/38/i255/2/7/20/i255/14/15/7/2/16/i255/17/18/19/20/15/49/15/24/15/32/7/i255/22/16/2/1/i255/60/15/1/4/15/7/i255/1/4/6/i255/165/6/24/1
164
/0/1/2/2/3/4/i255/6/7/8/4/i255/6/9/10/9/2/3/11/12/9/13/14/i255/15/7/9/8/16/i255/17/18/19/20/21/i255/22/16/23/16/24
/25/3/12/12/1/26/26/1/3/13/9/7/26/i255/8/26/27/9/28/i255/29/7/1/9/30/i255/31/2/8/7/1/30/32/1/13/33/i255/34/35/9/26/14/1/3/13/26/i255/14/3/i255/4/36/1/31/36/i255/22/2/8/13/13/9/7
/37/3/29/1/13/26/3/13/i255/8/13/28/i255/38/11/9/13/31/9/7/i255/0/36/1/14/9/39/i255/40/41/41/42/43/44/45/46/47/39/i255/7/9/26/11/3/13/28/9/28/16/i255/17/18/19/48/49/i255/22/16/23/16/24
/50/51/52/53/54/52/55/i255/57/58/59/53/60/i255/61/62/63/52/i255/62/i255/61/58/64/65/58/53/i255/64/58/i255/66/58/55/67/62/55/63/i255/64/68/52/i255/51/55/58/51/58/69/52/63/i255/70/52/69/64
/70/65/71/71/58/67/i255/72/55/62/67/i255/72/52/73/52/71/58/51/61/52/53/64/i255/74/55/52/62/i255/75/62/69/64/52/55/i255/76/71/62/64/i255/74/61/52/53/63/52/63/i255/62/53/63/i255/64/68/52/i255/77/78/79/80
/70/70/72/81/82/80/i255/62/53/63/i255/70/70/72/81/83/i255/84/65/53/62/71/i255/50/59/85/63/65/73/65/69/65/58/53/i255/76/71/62/64/i255/67/65/64/68/i255/62/i255/51/58/69/65/64/65/73/52
/55/52/54/58/61/61/52/53/63/62/64/65/58/53/i255/64/58/i255/64/68/52/i255/78/58/59/53/64/86/i255/75/62/53/62/60/52/55/i255/62/54/54/58/55/63/65/53/60/i255/64/58/i255/64/68/52/i255/66/65/53/63/65/53/60/69
/58/66/i255/66/62/54/64/80/i255/54/58/53/54/71/59/69/65/58/53/69/i255/58/66/i255/71/62/67/80/i255/62/53/63/i255/54/58/53/63/65/64/65/58/53/69/i255/58/66/i255/62/51/51/55/58/73/62/71/i255/66/58/59/53/63/i255/65/53/i255/64/68/52
/69/64/62/66/66/i255/55/52/51/58/55/64/i255/87/88/89/90/79/i255/76/91/75/91/92/91/i255/93/52/62/64/68/52/55/i255/76/52/64/52/55/58/86/i255/69/52/54/58/53/63/52/63/80/i255/62/53/63/i255/62/71/71/i255/73/58/64/52/63/i255/65/53
/66/62/73/58/55/80/i255/87/88/81/94/92/91/i255/74/85/69/52/53/64/89/i255/75/62/64/64/68/52/67/i255/95/62/60/65/52/91
/21/24/96 /97/97/98/99/100/101/102/i255/99/104/i255/105/106/107/108/109/110/111/112/i255/113/114/109/99/115/110/98/i255/116/117/118/i255/119/120/119/121/118/i255/101/107/122/i255/113/114/109/99/115/110/98/i255/119/123/118/i255/119/120/119/121/124/i255/17/18/19/48/125
/22/16/23/16/24
/15/14/14/8/31/36/12/9/13/14/19/i255/25/3/10/9/7/i255/22/8/33/9
/15/14/14/8/31/36/12/9/13/14/19/i255/6/7/8/30/14/i255/38/126/22/25/i255/23/1/13/35/14/9/26/i255/49/127/16/49/48/16/128/21/16/11/28/30
/15/14/14/8/31/36/12/9/13/14/19/i255/6/7/8/30/14/i255/38/126/22/25/i255/23/1/13/35/14/9/26/i255/49/127/16/128/125/16/128/21/16/11/28/30
/25/3/12/12/1/26/26/1/3/13/9/7/i255/38/8/33/9/7/12/8/13/i255/8/26/27/9/28/i255/8/i255/34/35/9/26/14/1/3/13/i255/8/29/3/35/14/i255/14/36/9/i255/129/31/14/3/29/9/7/i255/49/48/39/i255/128/127/128/21/39
/12/1/13/35/14/9/26/16/i255/17/18/19/48/130/i255/22/16/23/16/24
/131/55/65/54/i255/50/62/60/52/55/61/62/53/i255/61/62/63/52/i255/62/i255/61/58/64/65/58/53/i255/64/58/i255/54/58/53/64/65/53/59/52/i255/64/68/52/i255/73/58/64/52/i255/58/53/i255/64/68/52/i255/132/54/64/58/85/52/55
/133/90/80/i255/134/94/134/83/80/i255/61/65/53/59/64/52/69/i255/64/58/i255/64/68/52/i255/53/52/135/64/i255/61/52/52/64/65/53/60/i255/87/88/89/83/88/i255/76/91/75/91/92/91/i255/136/86/62/53/53/i255/75/58/58/53/52/86
/69/52/54/58/53/63/52/63/80/i255/62/53/63/i255/62/71/71/i255/73/58/64/52/63/i255/65/53/i255/66/62/73/58/55/80/i255/87/83/81/94/92/91/i255/74/85/69/52/53/64/89/i255/75/62/64/64/68/52/67/i255/95/62/60/65/52/91
/74/85/69/64/62/65/53/89/i255/136/65/61/i255/137/52/66/66/55/52/86/91
/136/65/61/i255/137/52/66/66/55/52/86/i255/61/62/63/52/i255/62/i255/61/58/64/65/58/53/i255/64/58/i255/62/51/51/55/58/73/52/i255/64/68/52/i255/61/65/53/59/64/52/69/i255/63/62/64/52/63/i255/132/54/64/58/85/52/55
/134/138/80/i255/134/94/134/83/i255/87/88/89/83/138/i255/76/91/75/91/92/91/i255/131/55/65/54/i255/50/62/60/52/55/61/62/53/i255/69/52/54/58/53/63/52/63/80/i255/62/53/63/i255/62/71/71/i255/73/58/64/52/63/i255/65/53
/66/62/73/58/55/80/i255/87/88/81/94/92/91/i255/74/85/69/52/53/64/89/i255/75/62/64/64/68/52/67/i255/95/62/60/65/52/91
/78/58/61/61/65/69/69/65/58/53/i255/139/64/52/61/69/i255/17/18/19/21/130/i255/22/16/23/16/24
/25/3/12/12/1/26/26/1/3/13/9/7/i255/38/8/33/9/7/12/8/13/i255/8/26/27/9/28/i255/30/3/7/i255/31/2/8/7/1/30/1/31/8/14/1/3/13/i255/7/9/33/8/7/28/1/13/33/i255/14/36/9/i255/14/1/12/1/13/33/i255/3/30/i255/8
/11/7/3/11/3/26/9/28/i255/7/9/14/7/9/8/14/16/i255/6/1/7/9/31/14/3/7/i255/126/8/7/13/9/26/i255/7/9/26/11/3/13/28/9/28/16/i255/17/18/19/21/130/i255/22/16/23/16/24
/72/65/55/52/54/64/58/55/i255/139/64/52/61/69/i255/17/140/19/127/49/i255/22/16/23/16/24
/6/1/7/9/31/14/3/7/i255/126/8/7/13/9/26/i255/14/36/8/13/27/9/28/i255/14/36/9/i255/25/3/12/12/1/26/26/1/3/13/9/7/26/i255/30/3/7/i255/14/36/9/1/7/i255/4/3/7/27/i255/3/10/9/7/i255/14/36/9/i255/11/8/26/14/i255/32/9/8/7
/8/13/28/i255/4/1/26/36/9/28/i255/14/36/9/12/i255/8/i255/23/9/7/7/32/i255/25/36/7/1/26/14/12/8/26/i255/8/13/28/i255/8/i255/141/8/11/11/32/i255/142/9/4/i255/143/9/8/7/16/i255/17/140/19/127/49/i255/22/16/23/16/24
/74/63/144/58/59/55/53/61/52/53/64/i255/58/66/i255/64/68/52/i255/77/52/60/59/71/62/55/i255/50/52/69/69/65/58/53/i255/17/140/19/127/49/i255/22/16/23/16/24
/131/55/65/54/i255/50/62/60/52/55/61/62/53/i255/61/62/63/52/i255/62/i255/61/58/64/65/58/53/i255/64/58/i255/62/63/144/58/59/55/53/91/i255/136/65/61/i255/137/52/66/66/55/52/86/i255/69/52/54/58/53/63/52/63/80/i255/62/53/63/i255/62/71/71
/73/58/64/52/63/i255/65/53/i255/66/62/73/58/55/80/i255/87/88/81/94/92/91/i255/74/85/69/52/53/64/89/i255/75/62/64/64/68/52/67/i255/95/62/60/65/52/91
/70/58/55/145/i255/50/52/69/69/65/58/53/i255/17/140/19/127/49/i255/22/16/23/16/24
/49/24/146 /99/98/147/i255/148/110/111/111/106/99/107/i255/106/109/110/149/i255/98/110/150/101/98/122/106/107/150/i255/97/99/109/110/107/109/106/101/102/i255/101/149/110/107/122/149/110/107/109/111/i255/109/99/i255/148/110/114/109/106/99/107/i255/116/120/151
/123/151/116/152/118/i255/96/114/114/110/111/111/99/98/153/i255/154/108/106/102/122/106/107/150/111/118/i255/155/156/101/97/109/110/98/i255/116/120/151/119/151/116/120/i255/157/111/110/i255/158/101/115/102/110/159/i255/101/107/122/i255/155/156/101/97/109/110/98
165
/0/1/2/0/0/3/i255/5/6/7/8/9/8/10/8/11/9/12/i255/11/7/i255/10/13/6/i255/14/9/15/16/6/17/18/8/19/19/6/i255/20/21/12/8/9/i255/5/6/18/6/19/11/22/23/6/9/10/i255/24/11/16/6/25
/26/6/27/8/12/19/21/10/8/18/6/i255/28/17/11/29/6/12/12/25/i255/30/21/15/i255/31/8/19/19/8/9/6/17/3/i255/24/11/32/9/10/15/i255/28/19/21/9/9/6/17/25/i255/34/35/36/37/38/i255/39/40/41/40/42
/43/44/44/45/46/47/48/49/50/44/36/i255/51/52/53/49/54/i255/39/45/55/49
/43/44/44/45/46/47/48/49/50/44/36/i255/56/49/46/49/48/57/49/54/i255/58/59/i255/38/37/38/60/i255/61/44/45/62/62/i255/63/49/64/52/54/44/40/64/65/62
/43/44/44/45/46/47/48/49/50/44/36/i255/66/52/54/67/i255/61/49/68/68/69/52/50/i255/39/54/49/68/49/50/44/45/44/69/52/50
/63/45/70/i255/41/69/71/71/69/50/49/54/59/i255/72/73/74/75/76/74/77/78/79/i255/72/79/78/75/75/81/73/59/i255/64/54/49/68/49/50/44/49/65/i255/62/52/54/i255/82/52/54/67/83/68/49/68/68/69/52/50/i255/65/69/68/46/84/68/68/69/52/50
/64/52/44/49/50/44/69/45/71/i255/45/48/49/50/65/48/49/50/44/68/i255/44/52/i255/44/47/49/i255/51/52/84/50/44/70/i255/51/52/65/49/i255/62/52/54/i255/45/46/46/49/68/68/52/54/70/i255/57/84/69/71/65/69/50/55/68/40
/85/69/55/i255/64/69/46/44/84/54/49/i255/69/68/68/84/49/68/i255/65/69/68/46/84/68/68/49/65/i255/82/49/54/49/i255/86/68/68/84/49/i255/87/52/40/i255/88/42/i255/87/84/48/57/49/54/i255/52/62/i255/85/84/69/71/65/69/50/55/68
/43/71/71/52/82/49/65/59/i255/86/68/68/84/49/i255/87/52/40/i255/38/42/i255/56/49/62/69/50/69/44/69/52/50/i255/52/62/i255/41/45/89/52/54/i255/63/49/90/84/69/54/49/48/49/50/44/59/i255/86/68/68/84/49/i255/87/52/40/i255/91/42/i255/87/52
/65/49/62/69/50/69/44/69/52/50/i255/52/62/i255/62/52/52/44/64/54/69/50/44/59/i255/86/68/68/84/49/i255/87/52/40/i255/92/42/i255/56/49/44/45/46/47/49/65/i255/53/68/i255/43/44/44/45/46/47/49/65/i255/41/69/50/69/48/84/48
/61/49/64/45/54/45/44/69/52/50/40/i255/34/35/36/37/38/i255/39/40/41/40/42
/56/69/54/49/46/44/52/54/i255/85/45/54/50/49/68/i255/64/54/52/53/69/65/49/65/i255/45/65/65/69/44/69/52/50/45/71/i255/69/50/62/52/54/48/45/44/69/52/50/i255/62/52/54/i255/44/47/49/i255/65/69/68/46/84/68/68/69/52/50/40
/51/52/48/48/69/68/68/69/52/50/49/54/68/i255/45/68/67/49/65/i255/90/84/49/68/44/69/52/50/68/i255/45/50/65/i255/46/52/48/48/49/50/44/49/65/i255/52/50/i255/44/47/49/i255/64/52/44/49/50/44/69/45/71
/45/48/49/50/65/48/49/50/44/68/40/i255/56/69/68/46/84/68/68/69/52/50/i255/62/52/71/71/52/82/49/65/40/i255/34/35/36/88/93/i255/39/40/41/40/42
/39/71/45/50/50/49/54/i255/41/69/71/71/69/50/49/54/i255/45/68/67/49/65/i255/44/47/49/i255/46/52/48/48/69/68/68/69/52/50/i255/48/49/48/57/49/54/68/i255/69/62/i255/44/47/49/70/i255/47/45/65/i255/45/50/70
/45/65/65/69/44/69/52/50/45/71/i255/69/44/49/48/68/i255/44/47/49/70/i255/82/52/84/71/65/i255/71/69/67/49/i255/44/52/i255/65/69/68/46/84/68/68/i255/45/44/i255/45/i255/62/84/44/84/54/49/i255/82/52/54/67/i255/68/49/68/68/69/52/50/40
/34/35/36/60/60/i255/39/40/41/40/42
/66/52/54/67/i255/68/49/68/68/69/52/50/i255/46/52/50/46/71/84/65/49/65/i255/45/44/i255/94/36/37/38/i255/64/40/48/40
/41/49/49/44/69/50/55/i255/48/69/50/84/44/49/68/i255/45/50/65/i255/54/49/46/52/54/65/69/50/55/68/i255/45/64/64/49/45/54/i255/45/44/i255/68/84/48/48/69/44/46/52/84/50/44/70/84/44/45/47/40/55/52/53/95/48/49/49/44/69/50/55/68/40/i255/66/47/49/50/i255/69/50
/44/47/49/i255/49/71/49/46/44/54/52/50/69/46/i255/53/49/54/68/69/52/50/i255/52/62/i255/44/47/49/i255/48/69/50/84/44/49/68/59/i255/46/71/69/46/67/69/50/55/i255/52/50/i255/44/47/49/i255/47/70/64/49/54/71/69/50/67/49/65/i255/44/69/48/49/68/i255/44/45/67/49/68/i255/70/52/84/i255/44/52
/44/47/45/44/i255/68/64/52/44/i255/69/50/i255/44/47/49/i255/48/49/49/44/69/50/55/i255/54/49/46/52/54/65/69/50/55/40
166