1.
Work Session to discuss and receive direction on proposed amendments to the
Snyderville Basin General Plan: Future Land Use Map. This item is for discussion
and direction only; no recommendation or action will be taken by the Planning
Commission. 
Ray Milliner, Principal Planner, Mustapha Osman County Planner. 
1.
Public comments for items not on the agenda or pending applications.
2.
Public Hearing, Possible Action regarding a Plat Amendment to adjust the platted
building envelope on Parcel QMR-25-2AM, located at 3504 Quarry Mountain Rd.
Applicant: Edward Lalonde. Owner: Quarry Mountain Investments LLC.
Administrative Process. Project #25-188.
Mustapha Osman, AICP, County Planner.
3.
Public Hearing, Possible Action for a Conditional Use Permit for an accessory
building with a footprint greater than 2,000 square feet at 1602 Oakridge Road
South. Applicant Chris and Susan Rutkowski. Administrative Process. Project #26-
062. 
Ray Milliner, Principal Planner.
AGENDA 
SNYDERVILLE BASIN PLANNING COMMISSION 
Tuesday, July 14, 2026
NOTICE is hereby given that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission will meet
electronically, via Zoom, and at the anchor location of Richins Auditorium
1885 W. Ute Blvd., Park City, UT 84098
(All times listed are general in nature, and are subject to change by the Board Chair)
 
You may attend in person or
 
Join Zoom webinar:
https://summitcountyut.zoom.us/j/98189226475  
OR
To listen by phone only: Dial 1-669-900-9128 or 1-253-215-8782, Webinar ID: 981 8922 6475 
 
4:30 P.M. Work Session
 
Work Session Report July 14, 2026.pdf
6:00 P.M. Regular Session
 
 
25-188 Staff Report.pdf
 
July 14 CUP Staff report.pdf
1
4.
Public Hearing, Possible Recommendation for the Crossroads at Silver Creek
Rezone from Rural Residential to the Community Commercial Zone, Master Planned
Development and Conditional Use Permit for 66 townhomes, 4 apartments, 20
affordable housing units and 32,000 square feet of retail/commercial space on
Parcel SL-I -9-A-AM located at approximately 7131 N. Silver Creek Road. Applicant:
Tony Tyler, authorized representative. Owner: CPD Silver Creek, LLC. Legislative
Review. Project #23-021 and #25-023.
Tiffanie N. Robinson, Senior Planner.
 
 
 
Crossroads Rezone MPD CUP Staff Report - SBPC PH - 7.14.2026 #25-021
Crossroads EXHIBITS 7.14.2026 - #25-021
Commission Items
Director Items
Adjourn
To view staff reports available at the end of the Friday before the meeting please visit
www.summitcounty.org.
 
Individuals needing special accommodations pursuant to the Americans with Disabilities Act regarding this
meeting may contact Vicki Geary, Summit County Community Development Department at (435)336-3123.
2
 Community Development Department 
P.O. Box 128 
60 North Main Street 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
summitcounty.org 
 
  
 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
To:   Snyderville Basin Planning Commission 
From:   Ray Milliner, Mustapha Osman 
Date of Meeting: July 14, 2026 
Type of Item:  General Plan Amendment – Work Session 
Process:   Legislative  
 
 
Proposal 
The purpose of this work session is to obtain feedback and direction from the Snyderville Basin 
Planning Commission regarding the proposed Future Land Use Map (FLUM) for the Snyderville 
Basin General Plan update.  Staff is seeking input on the land use designations, map clarity, and 
whether the proposed future land use pattern reflects the Snyderville Basin goals and policy 
direction established throughout the draft General Plan.  
 
Background 
During the February 10 work session, the Planning Commission reviewed Chapter 1 and 2 of the 
Snyderville Basin General Plan draft. This work session continues that review with a discussion of 
the proposed Future Land Use Map. The Future Land Use Map provides a long-range framework 
for future growth, development, and land use decisions within the Snyderville Basin. The draft 
map is based on the adopted Future Neighborhood Plans contained in the 2015 Snyderville Basin 
General Plan and consolidates those plans into a single, comprehensive Future Land Use Map for 
the Snyderville Basin.  
To facilitate the Commissioner’s review, staff has developed an interactive web map that allows 
Commissioners to provide comments and identify suggested revisions directly on the draft Future 
Land Use Map. Commissioners may add comments, mark locations for potential changes. Link to 
Interactive Map 
 
Recommendation 
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the proposed Future Land Use Map of 
the draft Snyderville Basin General Plan and provide staff with direction on the future land use 
designations, including the appropriateness of the proposed future land use designations and 
any revisions the Commission believes should be considered. 
 
Exhibits A: Future Land Use Map 
3
RASMUSSEN
PARKVIEW
BITNER
CUTTER
HIGHLAND
NEWPARK
SILVER
CREEK
KILBY
SADDLEBACK
O
LD
RANCH
ASPEN
40
A@
224
A@
224
A@
224
A@
224
A@
224
A@
248
A@
224
80
East Basin
Park City
Silver Summit
Snyderville
Summit Park
910 Ranch
B A S I N  S I D E
FUTURE LAND-USE
Conservation Lands
Annexation Zone
Preserved Open Space
Recreation / Open Space
Green Belt
Park
Subdivision Open Space
Sewer District Facility
Institutional
Silver Creek Village Center
Resort
Heritage Amenity
Very Low Density
Low Density Residential
Medium Density Residential
Mixed Residential
Mixed Use Neighborhood Commercial
Neighborhood Commercial
Mixed-Use
0 0.8 1.5 2.3 30.4
Miles¯
4
 Community Development Department 
P.O. Box 128 
60 North Main Street 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
summitcounty.org 
 
  
 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
To:   Snyderville Basin Planning Commission   
From:   Mustapha Osman 
Date of Meeting: July 14, 2026 
Type of Item:  Plat Amendment; Public Hearing, Possible Action 
Process:  Administrative Review 
File #:   25-188 
 
 
Proposal 
The applicant is requesting a plat amendment to the Quarry Mountain Ranch Lots 17, 18, 19, 
20, 24, 25, 30, and 36 Amended Subdivision Plat to reconfigure the existing building envelope 
on Lot 25. The amendment does not alter the size of the building envelope, which will remain 
approximately 1.01 acres  as approved on the recorded plat . No changes are proposed to lot 
lines, easements  or roadways. The proposed reconfiguration is intended to improve privacy 
between future development on Lot 25 and adjacent lots. 
 
Project Description 
Project Name: Quarry Mountain Ranch Lots 17-20 24-25 30 & 36 AM Plat Amendment   
Applicant(s): Edward Lalonde   
Property Owner(s): Quarry Mountain Investments, LLC 
Location: 3504 Quarry Mountain Rd  
Zone District: Rural Residential (RR)    
Parcel Number and Size: QMR-25-2AM, 3.63 acres  
Type of Process: Administrative   
Final Land Use Authority: Snyderville Basin Planning Commission 
 
Vicinity Map 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
2 
 
Background 
The Summit County Board of County Commissioners (BCC) approved the Quarry Mountain 
Ranch Specially Planned Area (SPA) Development Agreement by Ordinance No. 341 on August 
24, 1998. The approval established a 36 -lot single-family estate subdivision on approximately 
208 acres, including Lot 25 (Parcel QMR -25-2AM). The BCC amended the approval in 2003 to 
revise the common area and several building envelopes . The Quarry Mountain Ranch Amended 
Subdivision plat was recorded in September of 2003. The plat was subsequently amended to 
adjust lot lines and/or building envelopes for Lots 17 -20, 24, 25, 30 and 36. The amended plat 
was recorded on May 25, 2005. 
 
On May 24, 2022, the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission approved a plat amendment to 
reconfigure the building envelope on Lot 25. The approved amendment was not recorded 
within the required one -year timeframe and therefore expired in accordance with County 
recordation requirements, unless extended by the Community Development Director.  On 
October 16, 2025, the applicant submitted a new plat amendment application to amend the 
Quarry Mountain Ranch Lots 17, 18, 19, 20, 24, 25, 30, and 36 Amended Subdivision Plat. The 
request proposes to reconfigure the existing platted building envelope on Lot 25 while 
maintaining the overall size of the building envelope.  The proposed reconfiguration is intended 
to improve privacy between future development on Lot 25 and adjacent lots. 
 
Under Section 10 -3-18 of the Snyderville Basin Development Code, the Snyderville Basin 
Planning Commission serves as the Land Use Authority for any amendment to a recorded 
subdivision plat involving a building envelope. Community Development staff, in coordination 
with applicable service providers, has reviewed the subdivision plat amendment application. 
 
Analysis and Findings 
Chapter 3 – Amendment to Recorded Subdivision Plat (10-3-18) 
Standard 1: If the land use authority is satisfied that neither the public nor any person will be 
materially injured by the proposed vacation, alteration or amendment, and that there is good 
cause for the vacation, alteration or amendment, the county manager or land use authority 
may vacate, alter or amend the plat, any portion of the plat, or any road or lot. COMPLIES 
 Analysis:  
 
Standard 2: No plat amendment shall be approved which results in an increase in density. 
COMPLIES.  
Analysis: The applicant is requesting a plat amendment to modify the configuration of 
the existing building envelope on Lot 25. The proposed amendment does not result in any 
increase in density. The total area of the building envelope will remain unchanged at 1.01 acres. 
 
 
 
6
3 
 
Public Notice, Meetings and Comments  
The project was publicly noticed as a public hearing and potential action item before the 
Snyderville Basin Planning Commission (SBPC). The notice was published in the Park Record and 
all required locations. Courtesy postcards were mailed to property owners within 1,000 feet of 
Parcel QMR-25-2AM. As of the date of this Staff Report, no public comments have been 
received by Planning Staff. 
 
Recommendation 
Staff has reviewed the application for compliance with all standards in the Snyderville Basin 
Development Code and found that it meets the requirements for approval.  Staff recommend 
that the SPBC review the proposed QMR-25-2AM plat amendment, conduct a  public hearing, 
and approve the application, pursuant to the following findings of fact, conclusions of law , and 
conditions of approval. 
 
Findings of Fact: 
1. On October 16, 2025, the Summit County Community Development Department 
received an application for a Subdivision Plat Amendment for the Quarry Mountain 
Ranch Lots 17, 18, 19, 20, 24, 25, 30, and 36 Amended Subdivision. 
2. The Summit County Board of County Commissioners approved the Quarry Mountain 
Ranch Specially Planned Area (SPA) Development Agreement by Ordinance No. 341 on 
August 24, 1998. 
3. The property is located at 3504 Quarry Mountain Road within the Rural Residential (RR) 
Zoning District. 
4. The property is Lot 25 of the Quarry Mountain Ranch Lots 17, 18, 19, 20, 24, 25, 30, and 
36 Amended Subdivision and consists of approximately 3.63 acres. There is a platted 
building envelope of 44,106 square feet (1.01 acres) on Lot 25. 
5. Parcel QMR -25-2AM is currently undeveloped and is owned by Quarry Mountain 
Investments LLC. 
6. The property is subject to the Quarry Mountain Ranch Specially Planned Area (SPA) 
Development Agreement and the Quarry Mountain Ranch SPA Plan Book of Exhibits, 
approved by the Board of County Commissioners on August 24, 1998. 
7. The Quarry Mountain Ranch Subdivision was amended for Lots 17, 18, 19, 20, 24, 25, 30, 
and 36. The amendment was recorded on May 25, 2005, as Entry No. 737319. 
8. The applicant has demonstrated that the Quarry Mountain Ranch Development Review 
Committee (QMRDRC) approved the proposed plat amendment, as evidenced by the 
approval stamp on the proposed plat dated October 9, 2025. 
9. The purpose of the plat amendment is to reconfigure the existing platted building 
envelope on Lot 25. 
10. The proposed reconfiguration is intended to improve privacy between future 
development on Lot 25 and adjacent lots. 
11. The applicant proposes to extend portions of the existing building envelope to the east 
and north of the current building pad location in the southwest corner of the lot. 
7
4 
 
12. The proposed amendment does not increase the size of the building envelope. The total 
area of the building envelope will remain approximately 44,106 square feet (1.01 acres), 
consistent with the approved plat. 
13. The Snyderville Basin Planning Commission is the designated land use authority for this 
type of plat amendment. 
14. Good cause exists for the proposed plat amendment because it reconfigures the 
building envelope to improve privacy and site design while maintaining the existing 
building envelope area and without increasing density. 
15. No changes are proposed to any platted lot lines, public utility easements, driveway 
easements, or the location of any roads. 
16. The proposed reconfigured building envelope does not encroach into any wetlands, 
streams, or FEMA-designated floodplain areas identified on the plat. 
17. The proposed plat amendment will not alter property access or impact any public or 
private roads. 
18. The application was properly noticed as a public hearing with potential action by the 
Snyderville Basin Planning Commission. Courtesy postcards were mailed to property 
owners within 1,000 feet of Parcel QMR-25-2AM. 
19. County staff and service providers have reviewed the proposed plat amendment. 
 
Conclusions of Law:  
1. The proposal conforms to the applicable standards in set forth in 10 -3-8 of the 
Snyderville Basin Development Code. 
2. The Quarry Mountain Ranch Design Review Committee approved the plat amendment 
application.  
3. The proposed amendment does not increase density and will not result in any additional 
residential units. 
 
Conditions of Approval: 
1. This Plat Amendment shall not be modified without prior review and approval by the 
Summit County Community Development Department and the Quarry Mountain Ranch 
Development Review Committee. 
2. All applicable service provider requirements shall be satisfied prior to recordation of the 
plat amendment. 
3. Final plat recordation documents shall be in a form that is acceptable to and approved 
by the County Attorney’s Office and the County Recorder’s Office. 
4. The final plat amendment shall be recorded within one (1) year of the date of approval. 
This approval shall expire unless a written request for an extension is submitted to and 
approved by the Community Development Director. 
 
Attachments  
Exhibit A – Existing Plat. 
Exhibit B – Proposed Plat Amendment. 
Exhibit C – Record of Survey.   
8
9
1" =HORIZONTAL:SCALE0
10
1" =HORIZONTAL:SCALE0
11
 Community Development Department  
P.O. Box 128 
60 North Main Street 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
summitcounty.org 
 
  
 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
To:   Snyderville Basin Planning Commission   
From:   Ray Milliner, County Planner  
Date of Meeting : July 14, 2026 
Type of Item :   Conditional Use Permit - Public Hearing, Possible Action 
Process:   Administrative Review 
File #   26-062 
 
 
Proposal 
The applicants, Susan and Chris Rutkowski are proposing an accessory building that wil l have a 
footprint of approximately 5,040 square feet. The b uilding would be used primarily for 
agricultural and storage purposes.  
 
Project Description  
Project Name:    Rutkowski Barn    
Applicants(s):    Chris and Susan Rutkowski 
Property Owner(s):    Chris and Susan Rutkowski 
Location:    1602 Oakridge Road South 
Zone District:    Hillside Stewardship (HS) 
Parcel Number and Size:   SL-A-45, 11.53 acres 
Type of Process:    Conditional Use, Administrative 
Final Land Use Authority:   Snyderville Basin Planning Commission  
 
Vicinity Map 
 
12
2 
 
Background 
The applicants are the owners of an 11.53 -acre property in the Silver Creek area that is 
currently developed with a single-family dwelling and four existing accessory buildings. They are 
requesting approval of a Conditional Use Permit (CUP) to construct an additional accessory 
building that will be used primarily for agricultural and storage purposes.  
 
This application is made possible by recent amendments to the Snyderville Basin Development 
Code that revised the standards for accessory buildings. The amendments removed the 
previous limit on the number of accessory buildings permitted on a property, established a 
maximum combined accessory building footprint, and increased the maximum allowable 
building height, provided all applicable development standards are met.  
 
Under the amended Development Code, accessory buildings with an individual footprint of 
2,000 square feet or greater require a Conditional Use Permit .  
 
Analysis and Findings 
Chapter 2 -  Zone Distri ct Requirements  
The subject property is in the Hillside Stewardship (HS) zone district. 
 
Code Requirement  Analysis Finding 
Setbacks 
Front = 30’ 
Side = 12’ 
Rear = 12’ 
 
 
Front = 360’ 
Side = 195’ (north side), a 
lot’ (south side) 
Rear = 80’  
COMPLIES  
Height 
The maximum height allowed is 32’ from 
existing or finished grade, whichever 
results in a greater measurement.  
Proposed Building Height 
27’ 
COMPLIES  
 
Accessory Bui lding Standards  
In addition to the standa rds for a conditional us e permit in chapter 10 -4-17 of the Snyderville 
Basin Development Code, Chapter 10-8-17 establishes six criteria that must be met pri or to the 
approval of an accessory building.  
 
1. Conditional Use Permit (CUP) : Any single Accessory Building with a Building 
Footprint 2,000 sq ft. or greater requires a Conditional Use Permit.  
 
Analysis: The proposed building footprint is approximately 5,040 square  feet. 
The applicant has submitted a CUP application for review. COMPLIES   
 
2. Timing of Construction : An Accessory Building or Structure shall not be constructed 
or placed on a Lot prior to the establishment of a Principal Building or Principal Use. 
13
3 
 
Construction of an Accessory Building may begin once a valid Building Permit has 
been issued for the Principal Building.  
 
Analysis: There is an existing principal building on site. CO MPLIES 
 
3. Maximum Combined Footprint: The total combined Footprint of all Accessory 
Buildings may not exceed ten percent (10%) of the Lot area, up to 14,000 square 
feet. 
 
Analysis: The property is 11.53 acres . 10% of the acreage is appro ximately 
49,071 square feet. The applicant  is allowed to have  14,000 square feet of 
accessory building footprint.  
 
The proposed building would have a footprint of 5,040 square feet.  
 
There are four existing accessory buildings on the lot:
 
• Building 1, to be removed 
• Building 2, 12x24 = 288 sq. ft. footprint 
• Building 3, 36 x 36 = 1,296 sq. ft. footprint 
• Building 4, 9 x 20 = 180 s q. ft. footprint 
 
With the proposed barn and the existing accessory buildings , the total accessory 
building footprint on the site would be approximately 6,804 square feet. 
COMPLIES 
 
4. Setbacks: Accessory Buildings must meet all required Setbacks for the Zone District 
in which they are located. The Planning Commission may require greater Setbacks to 
protect Adjacent residential Uses or maintain neighborhood character. 
 
Analysis: The proposed building meets all setback requirements and is more 
than 80 feet from the nearest property line. COMPLIES
 
 
5. Height: Accessory Buildings may not exceed thirty-two feet (32’) in Height. 
 
Analysis: The proposed building will be approximately 26 feet in height. 
COMPLIES  
 
6. Separation: Accessory Buildings shall be detached and located a minimum of ﬁve (5) 
feet from any other Building on the same Lot, as measured between the nearest 
exterior walls. A greater separation distance may be required by the adopted 
Building or Fire Code, whichever is more restrictive.  
 
Analysis: The proposed building will be more than 5 feet from other buildings. 
COMPLIES  
14
4 
 
 
Conditional Use Permit Criteria for Approval 
No conditional use permit shall be approved unless the applicant demonstrates that: 
  
Standard 1: The use is in accordance with the General Plan.  
  
Analysis: Chapter 9 (Neighborhood Plans and Future Land Use Maps) of the Snyderville 
Basin General Plan identifies goals for the Silver Creek neighborhood that support 
ranch-style development and equestrian uses. Additionally, Objective C, Policy 2.12 
states that development should “maintain the residential character of existing 
residential neighborhoods.” The proposed barn supports traditional ranch infrastructure 
in both use and style, which is consistent with development in Silver Creek.
 
 
Standard 2 : The use conforms to all applicable provisions of this Title, including, but not limited 
to, any applicable provisions of this Section and Chapter 4 of this Title, the General Plan, and 
State and Federal regulations;  
 
Analysis: Staff analysis of Chapter 4 provisions is found in the chart below.  
 
Code Requirement   Analysis Finding 
Environmental Criteria 
*Air Quality 
*Water Quality 
*Watershed Protection 
*Sewage Disposal 
*Wildlife Habitat 
The application was reviewed by applicable 
service providers for compliance and found to 
meet the minimum requirements. The use will 
not create any unusual noise, substance or smell 
that would have a negative effect on 
surrounding properties or the environment.    
COMPLIES 
Critical Lands 
 
No development is occurring in an area defined 
as “critical land” by the Development Code. The 
structure does not encroach into steep slopes or 
wetlands.  
COMPLIES 
Open Space There is no minimum open space requirement 
for this project. 
COMPLIES 
Water and Water Supply 
Willing to serve letter 
required prior to 
development permit 
approval 
The property is within the boundaries of Service 
Area 3 who has reviewed the project.   
COMPLIES 
Sanitary Sewer 
A connection to a 
public sewer system will be 
required for all subdivisions, 
developments and 
structures that are less than 
three hundred feet (300') 
from an existing or proposed 
SBWRD sewer line 
The proposed barn is more than 300 feet from 
an existing SBWRD sewer line. Comments from 
the Health Department state that the existing 
septic can accommodate the new structure.    
COMPLIES 
15
5 
 
Fire Protection 
Ability to serve a 
development to provide fire 
protection shall be provided, 
in writing, for all 
developments.  
No concerns were raised by the Fire District.  COMPLIES 
Loading and Unloading 
Applicant shall demonstrate 
adequate loading and 
unloading space is available 
within the development. 
There are no applicable Loading and Unloading 
criteria for this project.  
COMPLIES 
Parking 
 
The proposal does not include additional 
dwelling units or bedrooms which would require 
the creation of additional parking spaces. The 
property already meets the minimum parking 
spaces of two per single-family dwelling as 
outlined in section 10-4-9 of the Snyderville 
Basin Development Code.  
COMPLIES 
Transportation 
Infrastructure and Access 
Design 
This project does not require any new 
transportation considerations. A driveway 
currently exists on the property and will provide 
sufficient space for vehicles to circulate. 
COMPLIES 
Public Utilities 
A letter shall be obtained 
from the public utility 
companies that will provide 
service to the development.  
The property has access to all public utilities.   COMPLIES 
Mail Delivery 
Locations for mail delivery 
should be shown on the final 
site plan and written approval 
from the postmaster. provided.  
No changes to mail delivery are proposed.  COMPLIES 
Solid Waste and Recycling 
Garbage and Recycling 
Containers need to be 
identified on the site plan and 
located within a completely 
enclosed structure.  
Garbage collection will remain as currently 
provided.  
COMPLIES 
Snow Removal and Storage 
Development shall provide 
adequate areas for snow 
removal.  
There is sufficient area on the lot to store all the 
snow.  
COMPLIES 
Police and Security 
 
No concerns raised.  COMPLIES 
Parks, Trails, and Trailheads 
All development shall 
provide neighborhood park 
facilities in a manner that is 
The project is within an existing subdivision. No 
additional trails, parks or other recreation 
facilities are required.   
COMPLIES 
16
6 
 
sufficient to meet the 
specific recreational 
demands generated by the 
development.  
ADA Access 
 
All ADA access issues shall be addressed through 
the building permit process.   
COMPLIES 
Architectural Regulations for 
All Structures 
The design of the proposed barn meets all 
architectural regulations outlined in 10-4-19. 
COMPLIES 
Landscape Regulations  The project shall be reviewed for compliance 
with the landscape ordinance through the 
building permit process.  
COMPLIES 
 
 
Standard 3 : The use is not detrimental to public health, safety and welfare;  
 
Analysis: Accessory buildings are common in the Silver Creek area. The building is less 
than 2 7’ tall, which minimizes any obstruction of views. T he barn cannot be used for a 
commercial purpose. As a result, staff finds that the proposed project will not increase 
traffic, will not create unreasonable noises, dust, or smells.   
 
Standard 4 : The use is appropriately located with respect to public facilities  
   
Analysis: The proposed project has access to all necessary public utilities and is within a 
reasonable distance of a fire station. 
 
Standard 5 : The use is compatible with the existing neighborhood character and with the 
character and purpose provision of the applicable zoning district and will not adversely affect 
surrounding land uses.  
 
Analysis: Staff has reviewed the proposal and found compliance with applicable height, 
setback, architectural, and zoning standards. There are many barns in the area with a 
similar size, style, and design; therefore, staff finds the project compatible with the 
neighborhood character.
 
 
Public Notice, Meetings and Comments  
This CUP was noticed in the Park Record and in other required locations. No public comment 
was received.  
 
Recommendation 
Staff recommends that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission (SBPC) review the proposed 
Conditional Use Permit, conduct a public hearing, and approve the application pursuant to the 
following findings of fact, conclusions of law, and conditions of approval. 
 
 
17
7 
 
Findings of Fact: 
 
1. The applicant, Chris and Susan Rutkowski, requests approval of a Conditional Use Permit 
for an accessory building known as the Rutkowski Barn at 1602 Oakridge Road South. 
2. The subject property is identified as Parcel SL -A-45 and contains approximately 11.53 
acres. 
3. The proposed accessory building would have a footprint of approximately 5,040 square 
feet and would be used primarily for agricultural and storage purposes.  
4. The property contains an existing principal building, and the proposed accessory 
building would not be constructed prior to establishment of the principal use. 
5. The total accessory building footprint on the property, including the proposed structure 
and existing accessory buildings to remain, would be approximately 6,804 square feet, 
which is below the maximum allowed accessory building footprint. 
6. The proposed accessory building would be approximately 2 7 feet in height, which is 
below the 32-foot maximum height allowed for accessory buildings.  
7. The proposed accessory building would meet applicable setback requirements and 
would be located more than 80 feet from the nearest property line. 
8. The proposed accessory building would be detached from other buildings on the lot and 
located more than five feet from other buildings. 
9. The proposed use is consistent with the Snyderville Basin General Plan policies 
supporting ranch- style development, equestrian uses, and the residential character of 
the Silver Creek neighborhood. 
10. Applicable service providers reviewed the proposal, and no unresolved concerns were 
identified regarding fire protection, utilities, septic service, transportation access, or 
public facilities. 
11. The proposed accessory building is compatible with the existing neighborhood character 
because similar barns and accessory structures are present in the surrounding area. 
12. Public notice was provided as required, and no public comment was received. 
 
Conclusions of Law :  
 
1. The proposed conditional use is consistent with the goals, policies, and applicable 
provisions of the General Plan. 
2. The proposed conditional use complies with all applicable provisions of the Snyderville 
Basin Development Code, including, but not limited to, Section 10-3-5, Chapter 4, and all 
applicable state and federal regulations.  
3. The proposed conditional use will not be detrimental to the public health, safety, or 
welfare. 
4. Adequate public facilities and services are available to serve the proposed conditional 
use. 
5. The proposed conditional use is compatible with the existing neighborhood character, is 
consistent with the purpose of the applicable zoning district, and will not result in 
adverse impacts to surrounding properties or land uses. 
18
8 
 
6. The proposed accessory building is appropriately scaled and designed for the site, is 
subordinate to the principal residential use, and is compatible with the character of the 
property and surrounding area. 
 
Conditions  of Approval : 
 
1. The accessory building shall be used only for agricultural, storage, and accessory 
residential purposes and shall not be used for commercial activity or as a separate 
dwelling unit. 
2. The applicant shall obtain all required building permits and comply with applicable 
Building, Fire, Health Department, and utility provider requirements prior to 
construction. 
3. Any exterior lighting shall be down -directed and shielded to minimize impacts on 
adjacent properties. 
 
Attachments  
Exhibit A – Project plans and application materials 
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
 Community Development Department 
P.O. Box 128 
60 North Main Street 
Coalville, Utah 84017 
summitcountyutah.gov 
 
1 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
To:   Snyderville Basin Planning Commission   
From:   Tiffanie N. Robinson, Senior Planner 
Date of Meeting: July 14, 2026 
Type of Item: Public Hearing, Possible Recommendation 
Rezone to Community Commercial (CC) 
Master Planned Development (MPD) 
Conditional Use Permit (CUP)  
Process:   Administrative and Legislative 
File:   23-021 and 25-023 
 
Proposal 
The applicant proposes rezoning parcel SL -I-9-A-AM from Rural Residential to Community 
Commercial. The Crossroads at Silver Creek proposal includes 70 market -rate dwelling units 
consisting of 66 townhomes and four apartment  units, 20 affordable housing units, ~32,000 sq. 
ft. of commercial use, a 4,000 -square-foot non-profit/institutional use, and a 2,500 -square-foot 
clubhouse/pool space EXHIBIT A. 
 
The applications/processes involved in this project include: 
• Rezone from Rural Residential (RR) to Community Commercial (CC)Zone 
• Master Planned Development (MPD)- Rezone 
• Conditional Use Permit (CUP) 
• Development Agreement (DA) 
• Final Site Plan (part of the DA) 
• Potential Condo Plat (for any for-sale units) 
 
Project Description 
Project Name: Crossroads at Silver Creek Rezone, MPD and CUP 
Applicant(s):   Tony Tyler 
Property Owner(s):   CDP Silver Creek, LLC 
Location:   approx. 7131 N. Silver Creek Road, Silver Creek Estates 
Existing Zone District:   Rural Residential (RR) 
Proposed Zone District: Community Commercial (CC) 
Parcel Number and Size: SL-I-9-A-AM, 14.07 acres (after plat amendment 13.24 acres) 
Type of Process:  Legislative - Rezone, MPD and DA 
Administrative (CUP) 
Final Land Use Authority: Summit County Council (Rezone, MPD and DA) 
Snyderville Basin Planning Commission (CUP) 
27
2 
 
Vicinity Map 
 
 
Background 
The Silver Creek Estates Unit I Block 9 Subdivision plat  was initially recorded on March 3, 1965. 
Block 9 was labeled as commercial on the original plat; however, a subdivision plat cannot dictate 
zoning. Several changes and divisions of the lot have occurred over the years.   
 
On January 17, 2023, the applicant held a pre -application conference with planning staff to 
discuss rezoning the property to NMU.  The applicant presented a preliminary concept to the 
Snyderville Basin Planning Commission in two work sessions on March 28, 2023,  and a revised 
proposal on May 23, 2023.  After multiple discussions with the Commission, the applicant decided 
to pause the NMU rezone. 
 
On February 7, 2025, an amended plat for Silver Creek Estates Unit I, Block 1, Block 4, and part 
of Block 9 was recorded to clarify several divisions and changes that occurred over the years  
within Block 1, Block 4, and Block 9 . The amendment created the current Parcel A, a 14. 07 acre 
lot, and five (5) residential lots, as shown in EXHIBIT B. 
 
On February 11, 2025, the applicant submitted a revised application t o rezone the property to 
Community Commercial. The rezone requires the simultaneous processing of Master Planned 
Development (MPD), Conditional Use Permit (CUP), and Development Agreement (DA)  
applications. A Conditional Use Permit application was received on February 13, 2025. 
 
28
3 
 
Due to the construction of the new roundabout on Lower Silver Creek Drive and the property 
acquired by Summit County from the applicant, Summit County was required to apply for a plat 
amendment to the Silver Creek Estates Unit I Block 9 Lot A Amended plat to vacate a portion of 
Earl Street, realigning the right -of-way to be consistent with the newly constructed portion of 
Earl Street and the roundabout, and to dedicate that portion and a portion of Silver Creek Road 
as a public right-of-way.  The plat amendment has been approved by the SBPC and SCC, but has 
not yet been recorded.  The application is being reviewed on the currently recorded 1 4.07 acre 
parcel. Upon recordation of the pending plat amendment for Silver Creek Estates Unit I Block 9 
Lot A Amended, the developable parcel will be approximately 13.24 acres, EXHIBIT C. Although 
the application is currently being reviewed on the existing 14.07 -acre parcel, all development 
calculations contained in this report reflect the proposed 13.24 -acre parcel configuration that 
will exist upon recordation of the required plat amendment 
 
On July 8, 2025, the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission held a work session to become 
familiar with the proposal and provide initial feedback to staff and the applicant.  The primary 
topics discussed were varied setbacks from Code requirements, affordable housing calculations, 
transit options, and general plan compliance. Since that time , the project has been reviewed by 
Service Providers, and a wetland delineation has been completed and accepted by the USACE to 
identify the critical lands on the parcel, EXHIBIT D. 
 
Analysis  
10-7-4  REZONE - Amendment to the Zone Map: 
 
1. The amendment complies with the goals, objectives , and policies of the general plan, the  
neighborhood planning area plan, and the land use plan maps; 
Analysis: The subject property is designated for future mixed-use development on the Future 
Land Use Map, and the proposed Community Commercial zoning district is consistent with 
that designation. The proposal advances numerous General Plan objectives by creating a 
compact, mixed- use development that integrates neighborhood- serving commercial uses, 
affordable housing, multimodal transportation, neighborhood parks, and interconnected 
pedestrian and bicycle facilities while preserving approximately 50 percent of the site as open 
space. The proposed rezone supports the General Plan's goals of directing growth to 
appropriate locations, encouraging walkable neighborhoods, reducing vehicle miles traveled, 
and promoting a balanced mix of housing, commercial services, and institutional uses. 
 
2. The amendment is compatible with adjacent land uses and will not be overly burdensome on 
the local community. 
Analysis: The project is surrounded by a mix of residential, commercial, transportation, and 
interstate-related uses, making the proposed mixed- use development an appropriate 
transition between these existing land use patterns. The site design concentrates the highest-
intensity commercial uses along Silver Creek Road while locating residential neighborhoods 
toward the interior of the site adjacent to existing residential development. The project 
incorporates substantial open space, landscaping, buffering, trails, and recreational amenities 
that further reduce potential impacts on neighboring properties. In addition, the proposed 
29
4 
 
infrastructure improvements, transit options, and coordinated access design are intended to 
mitigate transportation impacts and support the surrounding community. 
 
3. The specific development plan is in compliance with  all applicable standards and criteria for 
approval as described in chapters 3 and 4 of this title; and 
Analysis: Staff has reviewed the proposed Master Planned Development, Conditional Use 
Permit, and preliminary site plan for consistency with the applicable zoning, design, 
infrastructure, environmental, transportation, utility, parking, landscaping, and affordable 
housing standards. While several technical items remain outstanding, including execution of 
the SBWRD line extension agreements, final landscaping and lighting plans, shared parking 
documentation, affordable housing agreements, and final site design details, these items can 
be addressed through the Development Agreement and Conditions of Approval prior to 
issuance of development permits. 
 
4. The amendment does not adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare. 
Analysis: The proposed development has been reviewed by Summit County Engineering, 
Transportation Department, utility providers, and emergency service agencies, and no issues 
have been identified that cannot be addressed through the recommended conditions of 
approval. The proposal promotes orderly growth, efficient delivery of public services, and a 
development pattern that is consistent with the long- term planning objectives of the 
Snyderville Basin General Plan. 
 
10-2-7 COMMUNITY COMMERCIAL (CC) ZONE  
The maximum density in the Community Commercial (CC)  zone shall be determined by the ability 
of the proposed development to meet all required development and performance standards and 
criteria set forth in this title. 
 
Table 1 – Community Commercial Zone Standards 
(CC) Code Requirement Analysis Finding 
A. Intent: The purpose of the community 
commercial (CC) zone district is to allow existing 
commercial uses to remain, to allow expansion 
of such uses , and to allow new specialty retail 
and office uses that serve the Snyderville Basin 
residential and resort community. General retail 
and office uses are more appropriately located 
within the town center.  
 
  
B.   Density: Density shall be determined by the 
ability of the proposed development to meet all 
required development and performance 
standards and criteria set forth in this title. 
Proposed Density: 
• 32,000 SF of Commercial, 
Retail, Office, and Food & 
Beverage Uses 
• 4,000 SF for a Non-Profit 
Building 
• 2,500 SF Amenity Clubhouse 
/ Pool Space for Residents 
COMPLIES, AS 
CONDITIONED 
30
5 
 
• 20 Affordable Apartment 
Housing Units 
• 4 Apartment Market Rate 
Housing Units 
• 66 Townhomes 
 D.   Setback And Bulk Regulations: 
Setbacks 
Front = 30’ 
Side = 12’ 
Rear = 12’ 
Wetland=40’ 
Highway= 100’ 
 
Front = 30’ Silver Creek Rd 
Front = 50’ ROW South 
Boundary – Does not comply.  
Existing 50’ ROW easement to 
be removed. 
Nanga Bear Lane – Does not 
comply - 0’ setback from ROW 
Side = 20’ (north side) 
Rear = >12’ (west) 
Wetlands = 40’ 
HIGHWAY 100’ – Does not 
comply – BLDG W play area 
within setback 
 
DOES NOT COMPLY - MPD 
allows for varied setbacks 
Although several setbacks 
differ from the underlying 
Community Commercial 
standards, staff finds the 
variations improve the 
overall site design, preserve 
open space, enhance 
pedestrian circulation, and 
provide a better transition 
to adjacent uses consistent 
with the intent of the MPD 
process. 
Height 
The maximum height allowed is 32’ from existing 
or finished grade, whichever results in a greater 
measurement.  
Proposed Building Height 
Commercial - 32’ maximum 
Residential – range from 25-
32’ from existing and finished 
grade. 
 
COMPLIES, AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
  E.   Performance Standards: In addition to 
compliance with all standards for approval 
outlined in chapter 4 of this title, the following 
special performance standards will apply in this 
zone: 
Limitation on Direct Retail Sales: No single retail 
use within a building may exceed twenty 
thousand (20,000) square feet in floor area. 
Seven (7) commercial 
buildings are proposed. The 
square footage of these 
buildings ranges from 3,000 to 
7,000 square feet. No single 
retail use will exceed 20,000 
square feet. 
COMPLIES 
Industrial Uses: Industrial uses shall not create 
glare, heat, odor, smoke, noise or physical 
vibration of the building. 
No industrial uses are 
proposed. 
COMPLIES 
Parking: Parking shall comply with section 10-4-
9 of this title. Additionally, on-site parking is 
required for all visitors, customers, and 
employees expected to occupy the building for 
any given shift. 
 
  
 *See table below 
 
Required spaces =311 
Provided spaces = 311 
(Institutional use exempt – 14 
spaces proposed) 
COMPLIES 
PARKING CALCULATIONS 
  
Units Unit 
Ratio 
Required 
Stalls 
Garage 
Stalls 
Provided 
Surface Stalls 
Provided 
Commercial 32,000 SF   3.5 112 - 112 
Reside
ntial 1 Bedroom Apartment - Market 3 1.0 3 - 3 
2 Bedroom Apartment - Market 1 2.0 2 - 2 
31
6 
 
1 Bedroom Apartment - Affordable 5 1.0 5 - 5 
2 Bedroom Apartment - Affordable 15 2.0 30 - 30 
Apartment Visitor Stalls - Affordable 20 0.25 5 - 5 
2 Bedroom - Townhome (Garage) 44 2.0 88 88 - 
3 Bedroom - Townhome (Garage) 22 2.0 44 44 - 
3 Bedroom - Townhome Visitor 22 1.0 22 - 22 
  TOTAL PARKING     311 132 179 
Non-Profit 
(exempt) 4,000 SF   3.5 14 - 14 
Mechanical Equipment: All exterior mechanical 
equipment shall be screened to minimize noise 
infiltration to adjoining properties and to 
minimize the view of the equipment from nearby 
properties and from public roadways. 
Architectural drawings for all 
residential buildings are 
included to verify compliance. 
Commercial buildings have 
been designed to show 
footprint height and 
volumetrics to confirm 
compliance. Detailed review 
to come at a final site plan 
review. 
 
COMPLIES, AS 
CONDITIONED 
Delivery And Loading Areas: The loading and 
unloading of goods shall take place entirely on 
site and shall not interfere with emergency 
access, vehicular access or pedestrian access. 
Loading areas shall be screened from general 
public view as much as possible. (Ord. 708, 12-10-
2008) 
These areas have been 
identified in the commercial 
areas.  The applicant intends 
to restrict delivery times 
during off-peak hours. 
COMPLIES 
Refuse Storage And Disposal: In addition to 
complying with section 10-4-13 of this title, all 
garbage, refuse, and recycling functions 
associated with uses in this zone shall be 
screened.  
The garbage/recycling 
location has been shown on 
the site plan, and plans for the 
enclosed structure have been 
provided.  
COMPLIES 
Outdoor Storage Yards: Outdoor storage yards 
may be appropriate in connection with a primary 
use on a property in this zone. Outdoor storage 
yards shall be reviewed by the planning 
commission as a conditional use. Conditions of 
the approval shall address methods to maximize 
the screening of the outdoor storage area to 
minimize its negative impacts on adjacent 
properties and on views from public roadways. 
No outdoor storage is 
proposed 
COMPLIES 
Open Space: All developments in this zone shall 
provide a minimum of twenty-five percent (25%) 
open space.  
292,462 sf or 6.71 acres of the 
13.24 acres = 50% Open Space 
COMPLIES 
 
COMMUNITY COMMERCIAL ZONE, CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT AND MPD all require that 
Chapter 4 Standards are met. 
 
No conditional use permit shall be approved unless the applicant demonstrates that: 
32
7 
 
 Standard 1: The use is in accordance with the General Plan. 
Analysis: The proposed project is situated in the Silver Creek Neighborhood, as outlined in the 
General Plan.  
The introduction to Chapter 2 states that the goal of this section of the General Plan is as follows: 
 
GOAL: Promote sustainable Land Use Planning Principles that preserve Critical Lands, maintain 
neighborhood character, protect the economic base, prevent sprawl, and provide efficient 
delivery of services. 
 
The objectives and policies that follow this goal serve as guidelines and strategic options for 
achieving it.  There are four policies listed under Objective A.   Page numbers refer to the PDF 
version of the General Plan.   
 
OBJECTIVE A: Encourage the creation of highly livable neighborhoods and mixed -use areas that 
are connected by open spaces and multi-modal transportation systems.  
 
Policy 2.1:  Identify, plan, and create neighborhood master planned specific areas where 
development/redevelopment should occur. These designated areas should be rezoned 
accordingly. 
Analysis: The General Plan has identified the project area as a future mixed-use development on 
page 78.  The applicant proposes to rezone the parcel to Community Commercial, with residential 
and commercial components. 
 
33
8 
 
Policy 2.2: Identify specific areas where development should not occur and zone it accordingly. 
Analysis: The project area contains no areas identified as unfit for development.  In fact, the 
General Plan identifies this area as “Mixed Use” on the Future Land Use map. 
 
Policy 2.3: Do not approve any new entitlements beyond those permitted by the Development 
Code until such time that existing entitlements are significantly exhausted, unless the County 
legislative body first determines that:  
a. a compelling countervailing public interest, specifically identified in the General Plan 
exists and cannot be reasonably s atisfied without expanding one or more 
entitlements(s); 
Analysis: Several countervailing public interests are explicitly identified in the General Plan 
and can be reasonably satisfied by approving the proposed Crossroads at Silver Creek 
project.  The interests listed below are difficult, if not impossible, to satisfy wit hout 
expanding entitlement.  Although the property is currently zoned Rural Residential, the 
General Plan has long identified this area for future mixed-use development. The proposed 
Community Commercial designation is intended to implement the General Plan by 
providing neighborhood -serving commercial uses, affordable housing, and compact 
residential development in a location with existing transportation infrastructure and 
access to future transit. Staff finds the requested zoning better reflects the planne d long-
term development pattern than the existing Rural Residential designation. 
Page Number Public Interest Relation to Proposed Project 
3 Provision and inclusion of affordable 
housing 
If the project is approved with a 
25% reduction in affordable 
housing requirements, it will meet 
the standards outlined in the Code.  
6 These mixed -use areas should 
benefit, not detract from, the general 
health, safety and welfare of the 
entire community. A variety of smart 
growth strategies to locate 
development in the most suitable 
locations should be considered. 
These strategies may inc lude density 
transfers, land acquisitions, 
conservation easements, and 
clustered development principles. 
The applicant is using the 
development code processes 
available to create a community 
that typifies clustered development 
principles and strategically 
scaffolds growth from the highest 
intensity at the best access point to 
the lowest intensity near existing 
single-family residential.   
7 OBJECTIVE B: Incentivize compact, 
dense, and nodal development, 
defined by abundant and contiguous 
open spaces, as well as a predictable 
process to achieve this goal through 
clear regulations in the Snyderville 
Basin Development Code. 
See above. 
9 OBJECTIVE E: Prevent the creation of 
new suburban low-density, dispersed 
(i.e. non -clustered) residential 
development. 
The proposed development is 
clustered and connected via a 
network of walking or biking trails.  
Additionally, access to public 
transit is within ½ mile, a typical 
34
9 
 
Policy 2.28: New residential 
developments should be compact, 
connected, and incorporated 
whenever possible into mixed 
use/transit friendly areas. 
walkshed, of all proposed 
residential uses.   
17 Policy 4.1: Community parks, trails, 
and recreation facilities should be of 
sufficient size and located 
throughout the Basin in a manner 
that ties the neighborhoods together 
and promotes the overall sense of 
community and recreation family. 
The applicant proposes a 
neighborhood park and trail 
system for pedestrian use.  There is 
also a community gathering area 
with recreation facilities for the 
neighborhood's use. 
53 Reduce single-occupant vehicle trips Including a transit stop near the 
commercial area and affordable 
housing units, while creating a 
walkable environment with 
connected trails and sidewalks, 
helps reduce single- occupant 
vehicle trips and overall vehicle 
miles traveled. 
64 Ensure priority is given to the needs 
of pedestrians rather than the 
movement of vehicles 
The applicant has proposed that a 
large portion of the walking trails  
be located along the rear of the 
residential homes to help limit 
pedestrian-vehicle conflicts.  
65 The neighborhood needs to be easily 
accessible, both to get to and to 
navigate through. 
The proposed development aims to 
reduce auto -conflicts through a 
right-in, right -out access design. 
Linked trails and sidewalks 
enhance pedestrian connectivity. 
 
b. such new entitlement(s) do not simply result in an incidental benefit to the public interest, 
but rather such entitlement(s) are intended primarily to promote such compelling 
countervailing public interest; and 
  Analysis: The proposal includes several features that advance  the identified public 
interests, including affordable housing, multimodal transportation, neighborhood services, 
and land dedicated for community-serving uses. The applicant proposes to donate land to 
address a community need for daycare. The applicant has contributed  to the goal of 
reducing Vehicle Miles traveled by including a transit stop and creating a walkable 
environment with necessary services.   
 
c. any new entitlement(s) are consistent with the Neighborhood Planning Area Plans and the 
Snyderville Basin General Plan’s Future Land Use Maps, as amended.”  
 Analysis: The relevant map is on page 78 and is included above.  This parcel has been 
identified as a “Mixed-Use Area.” 
 
Policy 2.4: Work with local, state, and federal agencies to create a multi- modal transportation 
network to support desired development patterns. The Snyderville Basin will be defined by its 
35
10 
 
abundant open spaces, world- class resort amenities, and livable neighborhoods , and not an 
expansive highway system. 
Analysis: Staff and the applicants have continued to collaborate with Summit County Engineering, 
Public Works, and the Transportation Division to establish safe routes, including public transit 
routes, from the highway and within the proposed community.  
  
Standard 2: The use conforms to all applicable provisions of this Title, including, but not limited 
to, any applicable provisions of this Section and Chapter 4 of this Title, the General Plan, and 
State and Federal regulations;  
 
TABLE 2 – CHAPTER 4  DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS 
Code Requirement Analysis Finding 
10-4-2 Environmental Criteria 
*Air Quality 
*Water Quality 
*Watershed Protection 
*Sewage Disposal 
*Wildlife Habitat 
Applicable County departments 
and service providers have 
reviewed the proposed 
environmental protections and 
have not identified any 
concerns. Construction 
mitigation and stormwater plans 
have been vetted by the County 
Engineering Department to 
confirm compliance.  
COMPLIES, AS 
CONDITIONED 
10-4-3 Critical Lands 
*Wetlands 
*Slopes Exceeding 30% 
*Ridgelines 
*Avalanche Zones 
*Geologic Hazards 
Approximately 0.31 acres of 
wetlands and an intermittent 
drainage channel have been 
identified on the northwestern 
corner of the development.  The 
applicant has moved the nearest 
structure to meet the necessary 
40’ setback from the wetlands. 
COMPLIES 
10-4-4 Open Space 
25% Open Space Required  
 
SL-I-9-A-AM – 13.24 acres total 
25% required  = 3.77 acres  
 
 
Proposed: 6.71 acres = (50%) 
COMPLIES 
10-4-5 Water and Water Supply 
Willing to serve letter required prior to 
development permit approval or demonstrate 
concurrency compliance. 
Will Serve letters have been 
provided by Mountain Regional 
Water and Summit County 
Service Area #3. 
COMPLIES 
10-4-6 Sanitary Sewer 
A line extension agreement must be accepted by 
SBWRD prior to development permit approval 
SBWRD has provided a letter 
stating that they can provide 
wastewater service for the 
project, but a Line Extension 
Agreement has not been 
submitted. 
OUTSTANDING 
10-4-7 Fire Protection 
Ability to serve a development to provide fire 
protection shall be provided, in writing, for all 
developments. 
PCFD has not expressed any 
concerns with the proposed 
project. 
COMPLIES 
36
11 
 
10-4-8 Loading and Unloading 
Applicant shall demonstrate that adequate 
loading and unloading space is available within 
the development. 
Sufficient space available on site. COMPLIES 
10-4-9 Parking 
Commercial –  32,000 square feet 
3.5 spaces per 1,000 square feet = 112 
Proposed: 112 
 
1 Bedroom = 1 space 
5  units = 5 spaces required 
 
2 and 3 Bedroom = 2 spaces 
81 units = 162 spaces required 
Residential required = 199 spaces 
 
SPACES REQUIRED = 311 
SPACES PROVIDED = 311 
*See parking analysis in Table 1 
COMPLIES  
Internal Parking Lot Landscaping 
At least 15% of the internal portion of a parking lot 
shall be landscaped. 
 
Parking Lot: 66,486 SF 
15% required: 9,972 SF 
Parking Lot Landscaping 
Provided: 16,677 SF(25%). 
However, the proposed 
landscaping for buildings A and B 
Commercial parcel does not 
comply with the internal 
landscaping standards.  
This should be updated to 
comply with the internal 
requirements. 
COMPLIES, AS 
CONDITIONED 
Parking Lot Snow Storage 
Uncovered parking lots shall provide snow storage 
equal to 10% of the uncovered parking lot's surface 
area.  
 
Parking Lot: 66,486 SF 
Require 10%: 6,486 SF 
 
Snow Storage Area Provided: 
10,637 SF (16.4%) 
 
 
COMPLIES 
10-4-10 Transportation Infrastructure and Access 
Design 
The County Engineer has 
provided detailed comments 
and has reviewed the 
infrastructure design and 
stormwater calculations for the 
overall site.  The applicant has 
addressed all of the requested 
changes and provided the 
necessary information. 
COMPLIES, AS 
CONDITIONED 
10-4-11 Public Utilities 
A letter shall be obtained from the public utility 
companies that will provide service to the 
development. 
Will serve letters have been 
received from Rocky Mountain 
Power and Enbridge Gas 
COMPLIES 
10-4-12 Mail Delivery 
Locations for mail delivery should be shown on 
the site plan and written approval from the 
postmaster shall be provided.  
The mail delivery service is 
proposed to be located with the 
clubhouse, shown as Building V. 
Several attempts by staff and 
the applicant to contact the 
postmaster to verify that the 
COMPLIES, AS 
CONDITIONED 
37
12 
 
location is acceptable have gone 
unanswered.  Prior to a final 
decision from the SCC, a letter 
must be obtained. 
10-4-13 Solid Waste and Recycling 
Garbage and Recycling Containers need to be 
identified on the site plan and located within a 
completely enclosed structure.  
Trash and recycling have been 
shown on the site plan.  
Enclosure details must be shown 
on the final site plan to verify 
compliance. The residential 
townhome units include garage 
storage space for roll out waste 
and recycling bins. 
COMPLIES, AS 
CONDITIONED 
10-4-14 Snow Removal and Storage 
Development shall provide adequate area for snow 
removal.  
Snow Storage has been 
identified and adequately meets 
the required 10% designation for 
parking lots.  
Proposed: 20,178 SF =16.9% 
COMPLIES 
10-4-15 Police and Security 
Prior to submitting an application for 
development approval, the applicant shall obtain 
certification as to compliance with this standard. 
No concerns have been 
identified by the Sheriff's Office. 
COMPLIES 
10-4-16 Parks, Trails, and Trailheads 
All developments shall provide neighborhood 
park facilities in a manner that is sufficient to 
meet the specific recreational demands 
generated by the development. 
The development provides trail 
access to neighborhood 
amenities, including a 
playground, jumping pillow, 
pickleball/basketball court, and 
a pavilion for gatherings. 
COMPLIES 
10-4-17 - ADA Access 
All buildings intended for public use shall be 
accessible to persons with disabilities, as required 
by the International Building Code and the 
Americans with Disabilities Act. 
The building department has 
stated that compliance will be 
determined at the time of 
building permit review. 
COMPLIES, AS 
CONDITIONED 
10-4-18 – Special Site Design 
Integration of Development 
Existing Uses 
Privacy 
Building Site Plan 
Number of Single-Family Detached  
Intersecting Streets and Clear Visibility 
Front Side and Rear Yards  
Single-Family Detached Design Elements 
Fences and Retaining Walls 
Any applicable Special Site 
Design standards have been 
met. 
COMPLIES 
10-4-19 - Architectural Regulations for All 
Structures 
Architectural drawings for all 
residential buildings are included 
to verify compliance. 
Commercial buildings have been 
designed to show footprint 
height and volumetrics to 
confirm compliance. Detailed 
review to come at a final site 
plan that will accompany the DA. 
 
COMPLIES 
38
13 
 
10-4-20 Landscape Regulations 
All new developments requiring a land use permit 
shall comply with the landscape requirements.  
The development plan includes 
water-sensitive landscaping and 
limits turf to a very small area 
near the neighborhood park. The 
turf area within the irrigated 
landscaped area shall not exceed 
the lesser of fifteen percent 
(15%) of the irrigated 
landscaped area or 250 SF. The 
majority of the site will use 
native trees, shrubs, grasses, 
perennials, and seed mixtures 
across most of the development. 
 
COMPLIES 
10-4-21 Lighting Regulations 
All development permit applications proposing 
exterior or street lighting shall include a lighting 
plan. 
L-500 indicates pole lighting and 
signage but not details. Index 
refers to ES-001 for photometric 
plan and lighting details. As 
proposed, it appears to comply 
with the maximum pole height, 
lumen output, and color 
temperature limits. Final 
verification will occur prior to 
the issuance of the building 
permit.  
COMPLIES, AS 
CONDITIONED 
10-4-22 Height Regulations 
The maximum height allowed is 32’ from the 
existing or finished grade, whichever results in a 
greater measurement.  
The height of the proposed 
residential units ranges from 25 
to 32 feet.  Commercial 
structures are limited to a 
maximum height of 32 feet. 
COMPLIES, AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
Standard 3: The use is not detrimental to public health, safety and welfare.  
Analysis: Staff has not found any evidence that the use would be detrimental to the public health, 
safety, and welfare.  
 
Standard 4: The use is appropriately located with respect to public facilities.  
Analysis: All necessary public facilities are available on site, including water, sewer, and roads. 
Parking, internal circulation, and access have been reviewed by the Summit County Engineering 
Department and Park City Fire Marshal. 
 
Standard 5: The use is compatible with the existing neighborhood character and with the 
character and purpose provisions  of the applicable zoning district and will not adversely affect 
surrounding land uses.  
Analysis: Surrounding land uses include single-family residential, various commercial uses, Bell’s 
truck stop, and Interstate 80. The proposed site design provides an appropriate transition 
between existing commercial development along Silver Creek Road and adjacent residential 
neighborhoods through building placement, landscaping, buffering, open space, and graduated 
development intensity. 
 
39
14 
 
MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENT (MPD) 
Section 10 -3-11 of the Code outlines the following requirements for Master Planned 
Development. All rezones, projects with more than 10 units of density, and/or commercial uses 
over 10,000 sq. ft. must be processed through the Master Planned Development (MPD) process. 
 
TABLE 3 – MPD STANDARDS 
MPD Requirement Analysis Finding 
Affected Properties 
Property under the ownership of CDP 
Silver Creek, LLC should be planned 
comprehensively. 
All the property owned by the owner is 
included in the proposal.  
 
COMPLIES 
 Density: 
 The type of development, number of 
units, and density permitted on a given 
site will be determined through a site 
suitability analysis and shall not exceed 
the maximum density in the zone, except 
as otherwise provided in this section. 
Proposed Density: 
• 32,000 SF of Commercial, Retail, Office, 
and Food & 
Beverage Uses 
• 4,000 SF for a Non-Profit Building 
• 2,500 SF Amenity Clubhouse / Pool 
Space for Residents 
• 20 Affordable Apartment Housing Units 
• 4 Apartment Market Rate Housing Units 
• 66 Townhomes 
COMPLIES, AS 
CONDITIONED 
Setbacks: Setbacks for all structures 
within an MPD shall be determined by 
the requirements found in each 
individual zone district. 
 
The applicant has requested that the 
Community Commercial zone required 
setbacks be reduced in some areas to 
facilitate a better overall design of the 
project to comply with this MPD standard. 
Although several setbacks differ from the 
underlying Community Commercial 
standards, staff finds the variations 
improve the overall site design, preserve 
open space, enhance pedestrian 
circulation, and provide a better transition 
to adjacent uses consistent with the 
intent of the MPD process. 
 
COMPLIES, AS 
CONDITIONED 
Building Height: The maximum building 
height for all structures within an MPD 
shall not exceed the requirements found 
in each individual zone district 
The maximum height is 32’ from natural 
or finished grade.   
COMPLIES 
Access 
Access to be provided from a state 
highway or county road. All 
Developments shall have a secondary 
point of access 
 
 
Access to the site can be achieved from 
Silver Creek Road and Earl Street 
COMPLIES  
Trails 
Existing trails should be incorporated 
into the project. Trail easements for 
existing trails may be required. 
Construction of new trails may be 
required.  
The applicant is proposing internal and 
external multi-modal trail improvements.  
 
 
COMPLIES AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
40
15 
 
Connectivity 
All MPDs shall provide a means of direct 
and safe pedestrian and bicycle linkages 
within the project as well as 
connections to adjacent sidewalks, bike 
paths, etc.  
The applicant is proposing internal and 
external multi-modal connectivity 
improvements.  
 
 
COMPLIES, AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
Snow Removal 
Uncovered parking lots shall provide 
snow storage equal to 10% of the 
uncovered parking lot's surface area.  
 
Parking Area Surface = 66,486 SF 
10% = 6,486 SF 
The applicant has provided a snow 
storage plan that complies with this 10% 
standard.   
 
Proposed snow storage 20,178 SF = 16.9% 
COMPLIES, AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
Waste Disposal/Recycling 
Garbage and recycling container 
locations shall be shown on the site 
plan and shall be located in a fully 
enclosed structure.  
The garbage/recycling location has been 
shown on the site plan, and plans for the 
enclosed structure have been provided. 
All residential units will have trash and 
recycling cans and will be stored in the 
garage.  
COMPLIES, AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
 
Service and Delivery Access 
Service and delivery areas must be 
shown on the site plan and kept 
separate from pedestrian areas.  
The applicant has identified these service 
areas on the site plan and intends to 
require delivery during off-peak hours. 
COMPLIES, AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
 Utilities 
Existing and proposed utilities will be 
adequate to support the proposed 
project at normal service levels.  
 
Mt. Regional Water and Service Area 3 
have issued a will-serve letter for water 
service.  
 
SBWRD has indicated that they can 
service the project, but a Line Extension 
Agreement has not yet been executed.  
 
Rocky Mountain Power has confirmed 
their willingness to serve the project with 
appropriate infrastructure upgrades.  
 
Enbridge Energy has confirmed their 
willingness to serve the project. 
 
COMPLIES, AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
 
Transportation 
MPDs shall include transportation 
amenities including drop-off areas, bike 
racks, bike lanes, etc.  
The applicant has worked with the 
Summit County Transportation Planning 
Division and High Valley Transit. A bus 
stop and bike rack area has been 
identified central to the project, close to 
the commercial and affordable housing 
units. 
COMPLIES, AS 
CONDITIONED 
 
Employee/Affordable Housing  
All MPD applications shall include a 
housing mitigation plan as required by 
Chapter 5. 
See Affordable Housing analysis below. 
 
Should the Council find this criterion is 
compliant and qualifies for the 25% 
reduction, Staff requests a condition of 
approval to require a detailed breakdown 
of units as part of the Development 
COMPLIES, AS 
CONDITIONED 
  
41
16 
 
Agreement and Housing Agreement to be 
included in the Development Agreement  
Open Space/Public Spaces 
All MPDs shall provide at least the 
minimum zone-required open space. In 
the Town Center, Neighborhood Mixed 
Use, and Community Commercial 
zones, open space areas shall include 
public space.  
The CC Zone has a 25% open space 
requirement. Of the ~13.24 acres, the 
applicant is proposing ~6.71 acres of open 
space (~50%).   
 
Section 10-4-16(A) states; All development 
shall provide neighborhood park facilities 
in a manner that is sufficient to meet the 
specific recreational demands that will be 
generated by a development. In certain 
instances, cash in lieu of land and facilities 
may be permitted. 
 
The applicant is proposing a neighborhood 
gathering area with a playground, jumping 
pillow with a small pavilion , and a 
pickleball/basketball court.  
 
COMPLIES 
 
 
Off-Street Parking  
There shall be a maximum of 3.5 spaces 
per 1,000 SF of retail/office space.  
 
Affordable Housing requirements 
include .25 guest parking spaces per 
unit. 
 
 
See Table 2 for parking analysis COMPLIES 
 
Compliance With Development 
Evaluation Standards: Unless 
otherwise permitted by this chapter, all 
MPD shall comply with all requisite 
development evaluation standards 
found in Chapter 4 of this title. 
 
See Table 2 for Chapter 4 compliance. COMPLIES 
General Plan Review: All MPD 
applications shall be reviewed for 
consistency with the goals and 
objectives of the Snyderville Basin 
general plan; however, such review for 
consistency shall not alone be binding. 
See detailed General Plan review in CUP 
Standard 1 analysis 
COMPLIES 
 
Environmental Management Explanation 
An MPD Application shall include a written explanation of how the project plan addresses 
the following environmental issues EXHIBIT E. 
 
• Natural environment  
• Water quality 
• Air quality 
42
17 
 
• Protection of critical lands 
• Energy efficiency 
• Building materials 
• Recycling/waste disposal 
• Climate responsive design 
• Landscaping 
 
Site Design Narrative 
An MPD application shall include a written explanation of how the project plan addresses 
the following design questions EXHIBIT E. 
 
• Project neighborhood connectivity 
• Availability of neighborhood public facilities 
• Housing needs 
• Character 
• Site design 
• Complete street design 
• Parking areas 
• Public and private outdoor spaces 
• External storage and service facilities 
• Building design 
 
10-5-3 Affordable Housing : 
 
The Snyderville Basin Development Code, Chapter 5, determines the affordable housing 
requirement.  Based on the mixed -use project, calculations are made for both the commercial 
and residential components and then combined. A one-time reduction of 5,000 square feet of 
commercial space is permitted. Staff and the applicants have slightly different figures regarding 
this reduction. Staff reduced 5,000 square feet based on the percentage of each commercial use, 
while the applicant deducted the entire 5,000 square feet from the Restaurant/Bar use, which 
generates the most employees.  
 
Staff believes its calculation more closely reflects the intent of Chapter 5 because the 5,000 -
square-foot deduction is proportionally allocated among the commercial uses rather than 
assigned entirely to the highest employee-generating use. 
 
If final approval allows for a 25% reduction of the total AUEs required, based on constructing the 
affordable housing component first, the 20 units (19 AUEs) would be just short of the in Chapter 
5. Staff recommends that the .44 unit shortfall be made up by a fee-in-lieu and be included as a 
condition of approval in the Development Agreement. 
 
 
43
18 
 
 
 
10-2-18 MPD Required Findings 
The County must find sufficient evidence to support the following conclusions in order to approve 
an MPD. In some cases, conditions of approval will be attached to the approval to ensure 
compliance with these findings. 
 
Based on the application materials,  service provider review comments, and the analysis 
contained within this staff report, staff finds that the proposed Master Planned Development 
substantially satisfies the findings required by Section 10 -2-18(F) below. The project has been 
designed to preserve significant open space and critical lands, provide coordinated infrastructure 
and public services, integrate multimodal transportation facilities, and create a mixed -use 
development that is generally consistent with the Snyderville Basin General Plan. The remaining 
technical items identified in this report can be resolved through the recommended Conditions of 
Approval and incorporated into the Development Agreement prior to final approval by the 
County Council. 
 
1. The MPD is designed to fit well into the natural terrain, minimize excessive site grading , and 
protect, preserve, and enhance the level of quality of the surrounding area.  
# of AUEs / Unit Studio 1 Bed 2 Bed 3 Bed 4 Bed TOTAL 
times this row by
 # of units to get WUEs 0.5 0.8 1 1.25 1.43
Number of Actual 
Proposed Units 0 5 15 0 0 20 Units
Number of AUEs 0 4 15 0 0 19 AUEs Proposed
25.92 AUEs Required per mitigation
6.48 25% potential reduction
19.44 Required if reduction is approved
-0.44 shortfall
Parking 5 30 35
Guest Parking 1.25 3.75 5
TOTAL Parking 6.25 33.75 40 Parking space required
40 Parking spaces proposed
Affordable Housing Parking Breakdown
Affordable Housing  and AUE  Breakdown
Employee Generation
Total Commerical 32,000 % of total % of 5,000 Exempt Commerical sq. footage
Commerical/Retail 20,000 0.625 3,125.00 16,875.00 55.6875 Employees Generated (3.3 FTE's)
Restaurant/bar 6,000 0.1875 937.50 5,062.50 32.90625 Employees Generated (6.5 FTE's)
Medium intesity office 6,000 0.1875 937.50 5,062.50 18.73125 Employees Generated (3.7 FTE's)
107.325 TOTAL Employees
Commercial Mitigatgion
107.325 employees multiplied by 0.20 (mitigation rate) 21.465 Employees
21.465 divided by 1.5 (workers per household) 14.31 Employees
14.31 divided by 1.2 (jobs per worker) 11.925 AUE's
Residential Mitigation
Number of allowed market units in development 70
Obligation rate = 70 x 20% 14
AUEs required from market rate 14 AUE's
TOTAL AUE's for comm/res develo 25.925
6.48125 25% potential reduction
19.44375
COMMERICIAL AFFORDABLE HOUSING OBLIGATION
RESIDENTIAL AFFORDABLE HOUSING OBLIGATION
44
19 
 
Analysis: The proposed MPD has been designed to respond to the site's natural features by 
clustering development, preserving approximately 50 percent of the site as open space, 
minimizing impacts to environmentally sensitive areas, and limiting unnecessary site 
disturbance. 
 
2. The MPD makes suitable provisions for the protection, preservation, and enhancement of 
watercourses, drainage areas, wooded areas, rough terrain, and similar natural features and 
areas.  
Analysis: The proposed MPD protects identified wetlands and drainage features through 
required setbacks and incorporates stormwater management and erosion control measures 
to preserve natural resources. 
 
3. The MPD takes adjacent land uses into consideration and mitigates potential impacts, 
including but not limited to flooding, erosion, subsidence, sloping of the soil or other dangers 
and nuisances, through careful planning.  
Analysis: The proposed MPD is designed to provide appropriate transitions between adjacent 
residential and commercial uses while incorporating landscaping, buffering, open space, and 
infrastructure improvements to mitigate potential impacts. 
 
4. The MPD has direct vehicular access from a state highway or county road or suitable private 
road or driveway access meeting all requirements of the county engineer and fire marshal.  
Analysis: The proposed MPD provides direct vehicular access from Silver Creek Road and Earl 
Street. The proposed access and circulation system has been reviewed by the County Engineer 
and the Park City Fire Marshal  and meets applicable requirements, subject to the 
recommended conditions of approval. 
 
5. The MPD has a secondary point of access/emergency access or other mitigation satisfactory 
to the Summit County Engineer and Park City Fire Marshal.  
Analysis: The proposed MPD provides a secondary point of access that meets the 
requirements of the County Engineer and the Park City Fire Marshal. 
 
6. All roads/streets within MPD follow the natural contours of the site wherever possible to 
minimize the amount of grading.  
Analysis: The proposed roadway network has been designed to follow the site's existing 
topography where practical, minimizing grading and providing safe, efficient access 
throughout the development.  
 
7. Existing or proposed utility and public services are adequate to support the proposed MPD at 
normal service levels and are designed in a manner to avoid adverse impacts on adjacent land 
uses, public services, and utility resources.  
Analysis: Existing and proposed public utilities and services are adequate to serve the 
development, subject to execution of required utility agreements and the recommended 
conditions of approval. 
 
45
20 
 
8. The proposed structures within the MPD are located on the most developable and least 
environmentally sensitive portions of the site. The open areas within the MPD are designed 
so that existing significant vegetation can be maintained to the greatest degree  possible. 
Analysis: Proposed buildings have been located on the most developable portions of the site 
while avoiding identified wetlands and preserving open space and natural features to the 
greatest extent practicable. 
 
9. The MPD includes adequate internal vehicular and pedestrian/equestrian/bicycle circulation. 
Analysis: The proposed MPD provides an integrated system of streets, sidewalks, trails, bike 
facilities, and pedestrian connections that support safe internal circulation and connectivity. 
 
10. The building/buildings within the development provide good quality internal and external 
environments for their users, promoting health and welfare.  
Analysis: The proposed buildings, open spaces, and neighborhood amenities have been 
designed to create a functional and attractive environment that promotes the health, safety, 
and welfare of future residents and visitors. 
 
11. The proposed project integrates existing and incorporates new natural features into a 
multifunctional network that supports quality of place, biodiversity, and water management. 
Analysis: The proposed development incorporates open space, wetlands, landscaping, trails, 
and stormwater facilities into an interconnected network that supports environmental 
quality, water management, and neighborhood character. 
 
12. The proposed project contributes to Summit County's sustainability goals.  
Analysis: The proposed MPD advances Summit County's sustainability goals by encouraging 
compact mixed-use development, providing affordable housing, preserving significant open 
space, supporting multimodal transportation, and reducing dependence on single -occupant 
vehicle travel. 
 
13. The MPD, as conditioned, complies with all the requirements of Chapter 4 of the Snyderville 
Basin development code.  
Analysis: Subject to the recommended conditions of approval, the proposed MPD complies 
with the applicable requirements of Chapter 4 of the Snyderville Basin Development Code. 
 
14. The MPD, as conditioned, is consistent with the general plan.  
Analysis: Subject to the recommended conditions of approval, the proposed MPD is consistent 
with the goals, objectives, and policies of the Snyderville Basin General Plan. 
 
15. The MPD has been noticed and a public hearing held in accordance with this code. 
Analysis: The proposed MPD public hearing notice was published in the July 4, 2026, edition 
of the Park Record and sent to all property owners within 1,000 feet of the subject parcel. A 
public hearing was held in accordance with the requirements of the Snyderville Basin 
Development Code. 
 
46
21 
 
Recommendation 
 
Staff recommends that the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission hold a public hearing to 
discuss the proposed Crossroads at Silver Creek Rezone, Master Planned Development, and 
Conditional Use Permit. Staff  recommends that the Planning Commission forward a positive 
recommendation to the County Council for the proposed Rezone and Master Planned 
Development.  Staff further recommends that the Commission approve the Conditional Use 
Permit, contingent upon County Council approval of the associated rezone and Development 
Agreement and subject to the following findings, conclusions, and conditions. 
 
Findings of Fact: 
1. The subject property is located at 7131 N. Silver Creek Road, identified as parcel SL-I-9-A-
AM, consisting of approximately 14.07 acres. 
2. Parcel SL-I-9-A-AM is owned by CPD Silver Creek LLC. 
3. The property is currently zoned Rural Residential (RR).  
4. Summit County has received approval to amend SL-I-9-A-AM to vacate a portion of Earl 
Street, realigning the right-of-way to be consistent with the newly constructed portion of 
Earl Street and the roundabout, and to dedicate that portion and a portion of Silver Creek 
Road as a public right -of-way. Upon recordation of the pending plat amendment, the 
developable parcel will be approximately 13.24 acres. 
5. An application was received on February 11, 2025,  to request approval of a rezone from 
Rural Residential to Community Commercial and a Master Planned Development. 
6. A subsequent application required by the rezone request for a Conditional Use Permit 
was received on February 13, 2025. 
7. The proposed development includes approximately 70 market -rate dwelling units 
consisting of 66 townhomes and four apartment units; 20 affordable housing units; 
32,000 square feet of commercial use; 4,000 square feet of nonprofit/institutional use; 
and 2,500 square feet of amenity clubhouse/pool space. 
8. The subject property is located within the Silver Creek Neighborhood Planning Area and 
is identified as appropriate for mixed -use development on the Snyderville Basin General 
Plan Future Land Use Map. 
9. The proposed development is adjacent to a mixture of residential, commercial, and 
transportation-related uses, including Interstate 80. The proposed site design transitions 
intensity across the site to reduce impacts on adjacent properties. 
10. The proposal exceeds the minimum open space requirements of the Community 
Commercial Zone by providing approximately 50 percent open space, exceeding the 
required 25 percent. 
11. The applicant has demonstrated compliance with parking requirements by providing 311 
parking spaces, consistent with the Development Code requirements. 
12. Primary access is proposed via Silver Creek Road and Earl Street. Summit County 
Engineering has reviewed the access and circulation plan and determined it can meet 
requirements, subject to conditions. 
13. Letters indicating willingness to serve have been provided by water, power, and gas 
providers. Sewer service is anticipated, but final approval remains contingent on 
47
22 
 
execution of a sewer line extension agreement and confirmation of adequate utility 
infrastructure. 
14. Approximately 0.31 acres of w etlands and drainage have been identified on the parcel. 
Development is proposed outside required wetland setback areas. 
15. A Master Planned Development (MPD) is required because the building(s) exceed 10,000 
square feet of gross floor area and the requested rezone requires it, along with a 
Development Agreement. 
16. The proposed MPD has been designed to respond to the site's natural features by 
clustering development, preserving approximately 50 percent of the site as open space, 
minimizing impacts to environmentally sensitive areas, and limiting unnecessary site 
disturbance. 
17. The proposed MPD protects identified wetlands and drainage features through required 
setbacks and incorporates stormwater management and erosion control measures to 
preserve natural resources. 
18. The proposed MPD has been planned to provide appropriate transitions between 
adjacent residential and commercial uses while incorporating landscaping, buffering, 
open space, and infrastructure improvements to mitigate potential impacts. 
19. The proposed MPD provides direct vehicular access from Silver Creek Road and Earl 
Street. The proposed access and circulation system has been reviewed by the County 
Engineer and the Park City Fire Marshal  and meets applicable requirements, subject to 
the recommended conditions of approval. 
20. The proposed MPD provides a secondary point of access that satisfies the access 
requirements of the County Engineer and Park City Fire Marshal. 
21. The proposed roadway network has been designed to follow the site's existing 
topography where practical, minimizing grading while providing safe and efficient access 
throughout the development. 
22. Existing and proposed public utilities and services are adequate to serve the 
development, subject to execution of required utility agreements and the recommended 
conditions of approval. 
23. Proposed buildings have been located on the most developable portions of the site while 
avoiding identified wetlands and preserving open space and natural features to the 
greatest extent practicable. 
24. The proposed MPD provides an integrated system of streets, sidewalks, trails, bicycle 
facilities, and pedestrian connections that support safe internal circulation and 
connectivity. 
25. The proposed buildings, open spaces, and neighborhood amenities have been designed 
to create a functional and attractive environment that promotes the health, safety, and 
welfare of future residents and visitors. 
26. The proposed development incorporates open space, wetlands, landscaping, trails, and 
stormwater facilities into an interconnected network that supports environmental 
quality, water management, and neighborhood character. 
27. The proposed MPD advances Summit County's sustainability goals by encouraging 
compact mixed -use development, providing affordable housing, preserving significant 
48
23 
 
open space, supporting multimodal transportation, and reducing dependence on single -
occupant vehicle travel. 
28. Subject to the recommended conditions of approval, the proposed MPD complies with 
the applicable requirements of Chapter 4 of the Snyderville Basin Development Code. 
29. Subject to the recommended conditions of approval, the proposed MPD is consistent with 
the goals, objectives, and policies of the Snyderville Basin General Plan. 
30. The proposed MPD has been properly noticed, and a public hearing has been held in 
accordance with the requirements of the Snyderville Basin Development Code. 
 
Conclusions of Law: 
 
1. The proposed rezone to Community Commercial, MPD, and CUP substantially complies  
with the Snyderville Basin Development Code and General Plan, provided all outstanding 
issues identified in the staff report are resolved through the Development Agreement and 
Conditions of Approval. 
2. Subject to the conditions of approval, the proposed rezoning from Rural Residential to 
Community Commercial is consistent with the Snyderville Basin General Plan and 
applicable neighborhood planning objectives. 
3. Subject to the conditions of approval, the proposed development satisfies the intent and 
purpose of the Community Commercial zoning district. 
4. Subject to the conditions of approval, the proposed Conditional Use Permit complies with 
the applicable provisions of Chapters 3, 4, and 10 of the Snyderville Basin Development 
Code. 
5. Subject to the conditions of approval, the proposed Master Planned Development 
satisfies the applicable requirements of Section 10-3-11. 
6. Subject to compliance with all conditions of approval, the project will not adversely affect 
public health, safety, or the general welfare. 
 
Conditions of Approval: 
 
1. Staff shall review and approve all final landscaping plans for the site, including plant type, 
size, number, location, and method of irrigation, and verify that they are in compliance 
with the Snyderville Basin Development Code prior to issuance of any building permits.   
2. Staff shall review and approve the lighting plan for the site, including building, parking 
area, and street fixture type, number, location, and cut sheets, and photometric 
information for complete compliance with Section 4.22 of the Code, prior to issuance  of 
any building permit. 
3. A phasing plan shall be included in the Development Agreement that details the 
anticipated affordable housing, roadway, sidewalk, trail, transit and recreation 
improvements serving each phase. 
4. A detailed Development Improvement Agreement (DIA) shall be submitted to and 
approved by the County Engineer, along with sufficient bonding for all infrastructure 
improvements, common area improvements, landscaping and re -vegetation. This 
49
24 
 
agreement shall be recorded concurrently with the final site plan, prior to issuance of any 
development permits.   
5. All necessary construction plan and inspection fees must be paid to the County Engineer 
prior to issuance of any permits. 
6. Stormwater Pollution and Prevention Plan and Erosion Control Plan shall be followed, and 
all necessary bonding shall be submitted to Summit County prior to any development 
activity associated with the project.   
7. The d eviations from the zone required  setbacks as outlined in EXHIBIT A  shall be 
specifically approved and included in the Development Agreement.  
8. Prior to the Summit County Council's final approval of the Development Agreement, the 
amended plat for Silver Creek Estates Unit I, Plat 9, Lot A shall be recorded with the 
Summit County Recorder’s Office. The recorded plat shall reflect all approved lot 
boundary adjustments, right-of-way modifications, and roadway realignments associated 
with this development. 
9. Prior to final approval of the Development Agreement, a plat amendment must be 
completed to relocate the Snyderville Basin Water Reclamation District (SBWRD) 
easement between Buildings S and R.  
10. Prior to issuance of the first building permit, the applicant shall execute the required 
SBWRD Line Extension Agreement. 
11. Prior to final approval of the Development Agreement, a plat amendment must be 
completed to remove the existing platted 50’ right-of-way along the southern boundary 
line and relocated to the final location approved for Nanga Bear Lane. 
12. The applicant shall obtain approval and record a Development Agreement prior to 
commencement of development activity. The Development Agreement shall include, at 
minimum, an approved Final Site Plan for the overall development; final land use 
allocations; approved phasing plan; affordable housing obligations and housing 
agreements; infrastructure obligations and Utility improvement requirements; and 
detailed permitting procedures for future commercial buildings, including required site -
specific review and compliance with all applicable County standards. 
13. If the 25% reduction for affordable housing is granted  by the County Council , the 
affordable housing units shall be constructed in the first phase of development and 
completed prior to issuance of the first Certificate of Occupancy for any market- rate 
residential unit or commercial building, unless otherwise specified  in the Development 
Agreement. 
14. Prior to final approval of the Development Agreement, the applicant shall execute an 
Affordable Housing Agreement acceptable to Summit County. The agreement shall 
specify the total number of affordable units; unit mix and bedroom count; AMI 
restrictions; occupancy restrictions; deed restriction duration; and phasing requirements. 
15. If final calculations determine a remaining deficiency of 0.44 Affordable Unit Equivalents 
(AUE), the applicant shall either provide additional mitigation acceptable to Summit 
County; or pay a fee -in-lieu in an amount determined by Summit County, pursuant to 
Chapter 5 and the executed Affordable Housing Agreement. 
16. Prior to the issuance of any building permits, the applicant shall record a shared parking 
agreement for the commercial, affordable housing, and market -rate apartment 
50
25 
components of the development. The shared parking agreement shall demonstrate 
ongoing availability of parking for all approved uses and shall prohibit modification 
without prior County approval.  
17. Final design and location of the transit stop shall be coordinated with High Valley Transit
and Summit County Transportation Planning prior to final site plan approval. The final
design shall include ADA -compliant access, safe pedestrian connectivity, and s helter, if
deemed necessary by High Valley Transit.
18. The proposed institutional/non- profit building shall be restricted to institutional and/or
non-profit uses only, as represented in the application materials. The building shall not
be converted to commercial, office, residential, or other use.  Any change in use shall
require an amendment  of the Development Agreement and any additional affordable
housing, parking, transportation, and impact fee obligations resulting from the new use.
19. Each future commercial building shall require Low Impact Permit approval demonstrating
compliance with landscaping, architecture, parking, lighting, utilities, drainage, and
applicable Development Agreement provisions prior to issuance of any building permit ,
unless those improvements have been reviewed and approved as part of the Final Site
Plan incorporated into the Development Agreement.
20. With the exception of the permeable soft  surface trial, no grading or disturbance shall
occur within the required wetland setback.
21. Open space areas shown on the approved Development Agreement exhibits shall remain
protected from future development unless amended through a public amendment to the
Development Agreement.
22. All service provider conditions shall be met to the provider’s satisfaction prior to issuance
of any development permits.
Public Notice, Meetings, and Comments 
This item has been noticed as a public hearing in the  July 4, 2026, edition of the Park Record. 
Courtesy notices have been sent to all property owners within 1,000 feet of the subject parcels. 
After receiving a recommendation from the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission, staff 
will schedule further discussion a nd a future public hearing with the Summit County Council.  
As of the date of this report, staff has received two comments from t he public in opposition to 
the requested rezone and conditiona l use permit, EXHIBIT F.
Attachments:
EXHIBIT A - PROPOSED PROJECT
EXHIBIT B - 2025 PLAT - SILVER CREEK ESTATES UNIT I BLOCK 9 LOT A
EXHIBIT C - 2026 PLAT (PENDING) - SILVER CREEK ESTATES UNIT I BLOCK 9 LOT A AMENDED
EXHIBIT D - USACE WETLAND DELINIATION
EXHIBIT E - APPLICANT NARRATIVE
EXHIBIT F - PUBLIC COMMENT
51
Site Location
N
CPD SILVER CREEK LLC
1389 Center Drive, Suite 230
Park City, UT 84098
435.731.7027
Contact: Tony Tyler
ALLIANCE ENGINEERING
2700 W. Homestead Rd., Ste.50
Park City, UT 84098
435.649.9467
Contact: Joseph Fiala
ELLIOTT WORKGROUP
1441 W. Ute Blvd., Suite 100
Park City, UT 84098
435.649.0092
Contact: Bart Wolthuis 
ENVISION ENGINEERING
240 E Morris Ave. Suite 200
South Alt Lake, UT 84115
801.990.3566
Contact: Aleksandar Rankovic
HALES ENGINEERING
1220 N 500 W, Ste. 202
Lehi, UT 84043
801.766.4343
Contact: Josh Gibbons
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2025
EWG Project #
LIGHTING ENGINEER TRANSPORTATION ENGINEER
CIVIL ENGINEER
OWNER ARCHITECT
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE 
VICINITY MAP
PROJECT CONTACT INFORMATION PROJECT DESCRIPTION DRAWING INDEX
4/16/2026
G-001 Cover Sheet
Columbus Pacific Development, LLC
I-80 & US-40
Park City, UT 84098
4/16/2026
MPD - Rezone and CUP Package
2020.44
MPD - CUP Package
ELLIOTT WORKGROUP
1441 W. Ute Blvd., Suite 100
Park City, UT 84098
801.649.0092
Contact: Brayden Brassey
G-001 Cover Sheet
G-002 Development Code Analysis
C101 Existing Conditions
C102 Detailed Existing Conditions
C103 Detailed Existing Conditions
C104 Existing Slope Map
C201 Overall Site & Utility Plan
C202 Overall Grading Plan
C207 Fire Hydrant Layout
C208 Signage Plan
C300 Detailed Site Plan Sheet Index
C301 Detailed Site Plan
C302 Detailed Site Plan
C303 Detailed Site Plan
C304 Detailed Site Plan
C305 Detailed Site Plan
C306 Detailed Site Plan
C310 ADA Index
C311 ADA Detailed Plans
C401 Plan and Profile
C402 Plan and Profile
C403 Plan and Profile
C404 Plan and Profile
C405 Plan and Profile
C406 Plan and Profile
C500 Site Utility Plan Sheet Index
C501 Site Utility Plan
C502 Site Utility Plan
C502-SD Site Utility Plan
C503 Site Utility Plan
C503-SD Site Utility Plan
C504 Site Utility Plan
C504-SD Site Utility Plan
C505 Site Utility Plan
C505-SD Site Utility Plan
C506 Site Utility Plan
C506-SD Site Utility Plan
C700 Basin Sheet Index
C701 Detailed Basin Plan
C702 Detailed Basin Plan
C703 Detailed Basin Plan
C704 Detailed Basin Plan
STM-1 Stormwater Management Plan
STM-2 Stormwater Management Plan
STM-3 Stormwater Management Plan
EX-B Catchment Delineation
EX-C.00 Post Development 10 Year Calcuations
EX-C.01 B1 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.02 B2 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.03 B3 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.04 B4 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.05 B5 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.06 B6 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.07 B7 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.08 B8 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.09 B9 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.10 S1 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.11 S2 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.12 S3 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.13 S4 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.14 D1-18 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.15 D2-26 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.16 D3-27 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.17 D4-01 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.18 D5-03 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.19 D6-04 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.20 D7-02 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.21 D8-08 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.22 D9-07 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.23 D10-182 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.24 D11-05 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.25 D12-07 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.26 D13-06 Peak Runoff Calculations
Crossroads at Silver Creek includes a rezone to the Community 
Commercial (CC) Zone pursuant to Summit County Code. As a 
CC Zone, the 14.0 acre development will consist of 
approximately:
• 32,000 SF of Commercial, Retail, Office, and Food &
Beverage Uses
• 4,000 SF for a Non-Profit Building
• 2,500 SF Amenity Clubhouse / Pool Space for Residents
• 20 Affordable Apartment Housing Units
• 4 Apartment Housing Units
• 66 Townhomes
Project details shall be further defined in a Development 
Agreement duly executed by and between Summit County, 
Utah, and CPD Silver Creek, LLC. 
EX-C.27 D14-11 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.28 D15-06 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.29 D16-15 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.30 D17-05 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.31 D18-05 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.32 D19-13 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.33 D20-10 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.34 D21-12 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.35 D22-03 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.36 D23-04 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.37 D24-10 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.38 D25-09 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.39 D26-09 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.40 D27-02 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.41 D28-03 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.42 D29-16 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.43 D30-02 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.44 D31-01 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-C.45 D32-01 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.00 Post Development 100 Year Calcuations
EX-D.01 B1 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.02 B2 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.03 B3 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.04 B4 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.05 B5 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.06 B6 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.07 B7 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.08 B8 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.09 B9 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.10 S1 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.11 S2 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.12 S3 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.13 S4 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.14 D1-18 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.15 D2-26 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.16 D3-27 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.17 D4-01 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.18 D5-03 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.19 D6-04 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.20 D7-02 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.21 D8-08 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.22 D9-07 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.23 D10-182 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.24 D11-05 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.25 D12-07 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.26 D13-06 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.27 D14-11 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.28 D15-06 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.29 D16-15 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.30 D17-05 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.31 D18-05 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.32 D19-13 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.33 D20-10 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.34 D21-12 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.35 D22-03 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.36 D23-04 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.37 D24-10 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.38 D25-09 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.39 D26-09 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.40 D27-02 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.41 D28-03 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.42 D29-16 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.43 D30-02 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.44 D31-01 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-D.45 D32-01 Peak Runoff Calculations
EX-E.01 10 Year Storm Drain Pipe Profiles
EX-E.02 10 Year Storm Drain Pipe Profiles
EX-E.03 10 Year Storm Drain Pipe Profiles
EX-E.04 10 Year Storm Drain Pipe Profiles
EX-E.05 10 Year Storm Drain Pipe Profiles
EX-F TSS Removal Calculations
EX-0 Site Triangles Index
EX-1 Site Triangles Intersection 1
EX-2 Site Triangles Intersection 2
EX-3 Site Triangles Intersection 3
EX-4 Site Triangles Intersection 4
EX-5 Site Triangles Intersection 5
EX-6 Site Triangles Intersection 6
EX-7 Site Triangles Intersection 7
EX-H Stormwater Study Memo
L-001 Existing Setbacks Exhibit
L-001.1 Proposed Setbacks Exhibit
L-001A Easements & ROW Exhibit
L-001B Parking Lot Square Footage Exhibit
L-101 Area 1 - Layout & Materials Plan
L-102 Area 2 - Layout & Materials Plan
L-103 Area 3 - Layout & Materials Plan
L-104 Area 4 - Layout & Materials Plan
L-200 Parking & Landscape Plan
L-300 Overall Landscape Plan
L-301 Area 1 - Landscape Plan
L-302 Area 2 - Landscape Plan
L-303 Area 3 - Landscape Plan
L-304 Area 4 - Landscape Plan
L-400 Snow Storage Plan
L-500 Lighting & Signage Plan
L-600 Circulation Plan
ES-100 Overall Site Photometric Study
A-101 Area 1 - ROT & Site Section
A-102 Area 2 - ROT & Site Section
A-103 Area 3 - ROT & Site Section
A-104 Area 4 - ROT & Site Section
A-401-A Typical Sixplex Townhouse - Roof 1
A-401-B Typical Sixplex Townhouse - Roof 2
A-401-C Typical Sixplex Townhouse - Roof 3
A-402 Typical Eightplex One Bedroom Units
A-403 Typical Eightplex Two Bedroom Units
EXHIBIT A1
52
Code Section Analysis Sheet
* 10-4-2 Environmental
Criteria:
* 10-4-3: Critical Lands
* 10-4-4 and 10-2-7:
Open Space
* 10-4-5: Water and
Water Supply
* 10-4-6: Sanitary
Sewer
* 10-4-7: Fire Protection
* 10-4-9 Parking
Requirements
* 10-4-11: Public
Utilities
The development plan and use complies:
Air Quality: Solid Fuel Burning Devices and burning of defined materials are prohibited, with exceptions as defined.
Water Quality: There are no direct, point source discharges included in the design and the storm water design complies 
with the requirements of Summit County Development code 9-3.
Watershed Protection: There are no culinary water sources located within 1,500' of the development area, nor year-round 
naturally occurring streams, reservoirs, lakes or ponds in the development area. There is a delineated wetland in the 
Northeast corner of Parcel 1, which requires a 40' setback by code, and all buildings are voluntarily set back a minimum of 
40' from the delineated wetland area (shown on Sheets C-202, C-205, C-206, L-103).
Obstructions in Watercourses: There are no obstructions planned to existing or future waterways.
Sewage Disposal: A line extension agreement shall be negotiated with the Snyderville Basin Water Reclamation District 
prior to the issuance of any development permit beyond rough grading.  Existing sewer mains are located in or adjacent to 
the development area (Sheets C-101, C-102, C-103) and proposed sewer plans are included in the development design 
(C-203).
Revegetation: All disturbed areas shall be revegetated with approved materials pursuant to the landscape plan (Sheets 
L-300, L-301, L-302, L-303, L-304).
Wildlife Habitat and Fisheries: No critical wildlife habitat areas or floodplain corridors along streams supporting fisheries 
are located in the development area.
The development plan and use complies, exceeding the 25% minimum open space requirement by providing 292,462 SF 
(6.71 Acres), or 45.0% of total development area. 
The development plan and use complies, as the property was previously annexed into the Mountain Regional Water 
Special Service District. Summit County Service Area #3 also has an existing allocation of 1.5 acre/feet of culinary water 
available for use, which may be used for a portion of the development area. Existing water mains are located in or adjacent 
to the development area (Sheets C-101, C-102, C-103) and proposed water mains are included in the development design 
(Sheet C-204).
The development plan and use complies, see above Environmental Criteria: Sewage Disposal for additional details.
The development plan and use complies, including the fire hydrant layout.
The development plan and use complies, providing the exact number of parking stalls required for each use and exceeding 
the 15% minimum landscaping requirement by providing 25.2%. 
The development plan and use complies, with existing natural gas service through Enbridge and electricity through Rocky 
Mountain Power locations in or adjacent to the development area (Sheets C-101, C-102, C-103) and proposed distribution 
is included in the development design (C-206).
C-101
C-102
C-103
C-204
C-207
L-200
C-101, C-102
C-103, C-206
* 10-4-10:
Transportation
Infrastructure and
Access Design:
The development plan and use complies, previously donating land to Summit County for the construction of the 
roundabout at Silver Creek Road and Division Street.  The development also provides four access points to adjacent 
roadways, four pedestrian/trail connections (with an optional connection to the existing development to the West) and 
development roads designed to rural local standards. The 24' pavement width includes 10' lanes and 2' shoulders, 
together with a proposed 50' wide private access and utility easement, and are designed to be dedicated for public use 
and maintenance (Sheets C-300, C-301, C-302, C-303, C-304, C-305, L-600).  Although not a requirement of the 
development, the design includes a dedicated public transit stop and e-bike station (Sheets C-304, L-103).
C-300
C-301
C-302
C-303
C-304
C-305
L-103
L-600
* 10-4-8: Loading and
Unloading
The development plan and use complies, utilizing a shared loading and unloading area adjacent to the primary commercial 
uses.
L-600
C-101
C-102
C-103
C-202
C-203
C-205
C-203
L-103
L-300
L-301
L-302
L-303
L-304
* 10-4-12: Mail Delivery
* 10-4-13: Solid Waste
and Recycling
* 10-4-14: Snow
Removal and Storage
* 10-4-15: Police and
Security
* 10-4-16: Park, Trails
and Trailheads
* 10-4-17: ADA Access
* 10-4-18: Special Site
Design Requirements
* 10-4-19: Architectural
Regulations for All
Structures
* 10-4-20: Landscaping
* 10-4-21: Lighting
Regulations:
* 10-4-22: Height
Regulations
The development plan and use complies, with new mail boxes shown with a vehicle pull out for delivery service in a central 
location in the development.
The development plan and use complies, with waste and recycling locations for the commercial, apartment and non-profit 
uses in three centralized locations in the development (Sheets C-201, L-100). The residential townhome uses include 
garage storage space for roll out waste and recycling bins (Sheet A-401).
The development plan and use complies, exceeding the 10% minimum snow storage requirement by providing 16.9% 
(20,178 SF). 
The development plan and use complies, providing access for law enforcement purposes.
The development plan and use complies, providing trail access throughout the development (L-600), in addition to 
neighborhood amenities that may include a playground, jumping pillow, pickleball/basketball court and pavilion (Sheet 
L-102).
The development plan and use complies, providing ADA access to all buildings intended for public use.
The development plan and use complies, providing the mix of uses shown in the Snyderville Basin General Plan, adopted 
by Ordinance 839 on June 17, 2015, and intermediate scale of buildings between the existing single-family residences on 
the West and commercial/industrial uses on the East of the development area.
The development plan and use complies, as designed.
The development plan and use complies, providing a water-sensitive landscaping plan that minimizes turf area (only 
located in the neighborhood park area), while utilizing native trees, shrubs, grasses, perennials and seed mixtures for the 
majority of the development landscape area.
The development plan and use complies, with site lighting limited to down lighting in public parking areas.  A photometric 
is provided for site fixtures
The development plan and use complies, with all buildings designed to a maximum height for the Community Commercial 
zone of 32'.  A roof-over-topo is provided to confirm heights for each building comply with the maximum zone height.
L-102
L-600
C-304
L-103
C-201
L-100
A-401
L-400
L-100
A-101, A-102
A-103, A-104
A-101, A-102
A-103, A-104
L-300, L-301
L-302, L-303
L-304
ES-001
A-101, A-102
A-103, A-104
L-600
L-200
A Wetlands Delineation was carried out for the development parcel. The site plan has been modified so that all structures 
are located outside the 40' wetlands delineation setback. This was accomplished by replacing Townhouse V with a smaller 
Amenity Clubhouse / Pool space for residents. 
C-201
Code Section Analysis Sheet
10-2-7.A: Density
10-2-7.C:  Schedule
of Uses & 10-2-10:
Use Table
* Setback and Bulk
Regulations
The development plan and use complies with the Development and Performance Standards - including Chapter 4: 
Standards for Approval and Development Permits - refer to the subsequent analysis section 'Chapter 10-4 Development 
Permit Analysis'
The 'MPD - Rezone and CUP Package' proposes rezoning the development area to a CC Zone.
The development plan proposes the following uses, with none of the proposed uses being prohibited in the CC Zone 
outlined in Section 10-2-10: Use Table.
• 32,000 SF of Commercial, Retail, Office, and Food and Beverage Uses
• 4,000 SF for a Non-Profit Building
• 2,500 SF Amenity Clubhouse / Pool Space for Residents
• 20 Affordable Housing Units
• 4 Apartment Housing Unit
• 66 Townhomes
The development plan complies with the minimum setback requirements for the CC Zone in Section 10-2-7.D, with 12' 
Side Yard Setbacks and 30' Front Yard Setbacks as outlined in the following Sheets (L-100, L-101, L-102, L-103, L104). 
Refer to '10-4: Development Permit Analysis' section 10-4-10 for the proposed roadways.
Regarding the CC Zone max building height - refer to '10-4: Development Permit Analysis' section 10-4-22
The development plan and use complies with the performance standards outlined in section 10-207.E. 
1. No single direct sales retail use exceeding 20.000 SF are proposed
2. No glare, heat, odor, smoke, noise or physical vibration of the building from industrial uses are proposed
3. Refer to '10-4: Development Permit Analysis' section 10-4-9 for compliance of parking requirements
4. All exterior mechanical equipment shall be screened to minimize noise infiltration to adjoining properties
and to minimize the view of the equipment from nearby properties and from public roadways.
5. Refer to '10-4: Development Permit Analysis' section 10-4-8 for loading areas
6. Refer to '10-4: Development Permit Analysis' section 10-4-13 for screened Refuse Storage and Disposal
areas
7. N/A
8. Refer to '10-4: Development Permit Analysis' section 10-4-4 for open space calculations
L-100
Refer 
Analysis
Section
Description Analysis Sheet
* Community Benefits:
Snyderville Basin
General Plan
The development plan and use incorporates multiple community benefits, including
• An improved pad lot for a permanent, dedicated non-profit use identified as Building W.  Building W shall be
deed-restricted to non-profit community uses, initially contemplated as a childcare facility and related services.
• Multiple trail connections for pedestrian use are provided and connected to the larger trail system in Silver Creek.
• Additional vehicular connections to adjacent roads disperse traffic more efficiently and provide alternate access
in the event of emergency service needs.
• A transit stop for efficient access to public transit.
• An e-bike station for neighborhood use.
• Community commercial uses, including retail, office, food and beverage and general commercial uses provide
alternative amenities, services and shopping to the neighborhood, reducing the need to travel farther for these
services.
• A neighborhood park, which may include a playground, jumping pillow, pickleball/basketball court and pavilion.
• Twenty-four deed-restricted apartments, consisting of eight, 1-bedroom and sixteen, 2-bedroom configurations.
The deed restrictions shall be subject to the requirements in Summit County Development code 10-5.
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2025
4/16/2026
MPD - Rezone and CUP Package
G-002 Development Code Analysis
Chapter 10-4: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT ANALYSISChapter 10-2-7: COMMUNITY COMMERCIAL (CC) ANALYSIS SNYDERVILLE BASIN GENERAL PLAN
EXHIBIT A2
53
No. 4857264
MICHAEL
DEMKOWICZREGISTERED
 PROFESSIONA ENGINEER
STATE OF UTAH
L
04 08 2026
SHEET
SEALDESIGNED BY:
PROJECT No.:
1-1-21
P.O. BOX 2664 | 2700 W. HOMESTEAD RD. STE 50,
PARK CITY, UT 84098 | 435-649-9467
# DATE DESCRIPTION
JOSEPH FIALA
JOSEPH FIALA
CROSSROADS AT SILVER CREEK
GRADING PERMIT
04/07/26
CAUTION: NOTICE TO CONTRACTOR
THE CONTRACTOR IS SPECIFICALLY CAUTIONED THAT THE LOCATION AND/OR
ELEVATION OF EXISTING UTILITIES AS SHOWN ON THESE PLAN IS BASED ON
RECORDS OF THE VARIOUS UTILITY COMPANIES AND, WHERE POSSIBLE,
MEASUREMENTS TAKEN IN THE FIELD. THE INFORMATION IS NOT TO BE RELIED
ON AS BEING EXACT OR COMPLETE. THE CONTRACTOR MUST CALL THE LOCAL
UTILITY LOCATION CENTER AT LEAST 48 HOURS BEFORE ANY EXCAVATION TO
REQUEST EXACT FIELD LOCATIONS OF THE UTILITIES. IT SHALL BE THE
RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CONTRACTOR TO RELOCATE ALL EXISTING UTILITIES
WHICH CONFLICT WITH THE PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS SHOWN ON THE PLANS.
DRAWING BY:
REVIEWED BY:
MICHAEL DEMKOWICZ
04/07/26
04/07/26
EXISTING CONDITIONS
C101
NORTH
N
1" = 60'
30' 60' 120'1'
EXHIBIT A3
54
NORTH
N
1" = 50'
0 25' 50'
No. 4857264
MICHAEL
DEMKOWICZREGISTERED
 PROFESSIONA ENGINEER
STATE OF UTAH
L
04 08 2026
SHEET
SEALDESIGNED BY:
PROJECT No.:
1-1-21
P.O. BOX 2664 | 2700 W. HOMESTEAD RD. STE 50,
PARK CITY, UT 84098 | 435-649-9467
# DATE DESCRIPTION
JOSEPH FIALA
JOSEPH FIALA
CROSSROADS AT SILVER CREEK
GRADING PERMIT
04/07/26
CAUTION: NOTICE TO CONTRACTOR
THE CONTRACTOR IS SPECIFICALLY CAUTIONED THAT THE LOCATION AND/OR
ELEVATION OF EXISTING UTILITIES AS SHOWN ON THESE PLAN IS BASED ON
RECORDS OF THE VARIOUS UTILITY COMPANIES AND, WHERE POSSIBLE,
MEASUREMENTS TAKEN IN THE FIELD. THE INFORMATION IS NOT TO BE RELIED
ON AS BEING EXACT OR COMPLETE. THE CONTRACTOR MUST CALL THE LOCAL
UTILITY LOCATION CENTER AT LEAST 48 HOURS BEFORE ANY EXCAVATION TO
REQUEST EXACT FIELD LOCATIONS OF THE UTILITIES. IT SHALL BE THE
RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CONTRACTOR TO RELOCATE ALL EXISTING UTILITIES
WHICH CONFLICT WITH THE PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS SHOWN ON THE PLANS.
DRAWING BY:
REVIEWED BY:
MICHAEL DEMKOWICZ
04/07/26
04/07/26
100'
DETAILED EXISTING
CONDITIONS
C102
EXHIBIT A4
55
No. 4857264
MICHAEL
DEMKOWICZREGISTERED
 PROFESSIONA ENGINEER
STATE OF UTAH
L
04 08 2026
SHEET
SEALDESIGNED BY:
PROJECT No.:
1-1-21
P.O. BOX 2664 | 2700 W. HOMESTEAD RD. STE 50,
PARK CITY, UT 84098 | 435-649-9467
# DATE DESCRIPTION
JOSEPH FIALA
JOSEPH FIALA
CROSSROADS AT SILVER CREEK
GRADING PERMIT
04/07/26
CAUTION: NOTICE TO CONTRACTOR
THE CONTRACTOR IS SPECIFICALLY CAUTIONED THAT THE LOCATION AND/OR
ELEVATION OF EXISTING UTILITIES AS SHOWN ON THESE PLAN IS BASED ON
RECORDS OF THE VARIOUS UTILITY COMPANIES AND, WHERE POSSIBLE,
MEASUREMENTS TAKEN IN THE FIELD. THE INFORMATION IS NOT TO BE RELIED
ON AS BEING EXACT OR COMPLETE. THE CONTRACTOR MUST CALL THE LOCAL
UTILITY LOCATION CENTER AT LEAST 48 HOURS BEFORE ANY EXCAVATION TO
REQUEST EXACT FIELD LOCATIONS OF THE UTILITIES. IT SHALL BE THE
RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CONTRACTOR TO RELOCATE ALL EXISTING UTILITIES
WHICH CONFLICT WITH THE PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS SHOWN ON THE PLANS.
DRAWING BY:
REVIEWED BY:
MICHAEL DEMKOWICZ
04/07/26
04/07/26
NORTH
N
1"= 50'
0 25' 50' 100'
DETAILED EXISTING
CONDITIONS
C103
EXHIBIT A5
56
No. 4857264
MICHAEL
DEMKOWICZREGISTERED
 PROFESSIONA ENGINEER
STATE OF UTAH
L
04 08 2026
SHEET
SEALDESIGNED BY:
PROJECT No.:
1-1-21
P.O. BOX 2664 | 2700 W. HOMESTEAD RD. STE 50,
PARK CITY, UT 84098 | 435-649-9467
# DATE DESCRIPTION
JOSEPH FIALA
JOSEPH FIALA
CROSSROADS AT SILVER CREEK
GRADING PERMIT
04/07/26
CAUTION: NOTICE TO CONTRACTOR
THE CONTRACTOR IS SPECIFICALLY CAUTIONED THAT THE LOCATION AND/OR
ELEVATION OF EXISTING UTILITIES AS SHOWN ON THESE PLAN IS BASED ON
RECORDS OF THE VARIOUS UTILITY COMPANIES AND, WHERE POSSIBLE,
MEASUREMENTS TAKEN IN THE FIELD. THE INFORMATION IS NOT TO BE RELIED
ON AS BEING EXACT OR COMPLETE. THE CONTRACTOR MUST CALL THE LOCAL
UTILITY LOCATION CENTER AT LEAST 48 HOURS BEFORE ANY EXCAVATION TO
REQUEST EXACT FIELD LOCATIONS OF THE UTILITIES. IT SHALL BE THE
RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CONTRACTOR TO RELOCATE ALL EXISTING UTILITIES
WHICH CONFLICT WITH THE PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS SHOWN ON THE PLANS.
DRAWING BY:
REVIEWED BY:
MICHAEL DEMKOWICZ
04/07/26
04/07/26
EXISTING SLOPE MAP
C104
NORTH
N
1" = 60'
30' 60' 120'1'
EXHIBIT A6
57
R195'-0"
NORTH
N
1" = 50'
0 25' 50' 100'
No. 4857264
MICHAEL
DEMKOWICZREGISTERED
 PROFESSIONA ENGINEER
STATE OF UTAH
L
04 08 2026
SHEET
SEALDESIGNED BY:
PROJECT No.:
1-1-21
P.O. BOX 2664 | 2700 W. HOMESTEAD RD. STE 50,
PARK CITY, UT 84098 | 435-649-9467
# DATE DESCRIPTION
JOSEPH FIALA
JOSEPH FIALA
CROSSROADS AT SILVER CREEK
GRADING PERMIT
04/07/26
CAUTION: NOTICE TO CONTRACTOR
THE CONTRACTOR IS SPECIFICALLY CAUTIONED THAT THE LOCATION AND/OR
ELEVATION OF EXISTING UTILITIES AS SHOWN ON THESE PLAN IS BASED ON
RECORDS OF THE VARIOUS UTILITY COMPANIES AND, WHERE POSSIBLE,
MEASUREMENTS TAKEN IN THE FIELD. THE INFORMATION IS NOT TO BE RELIED
ON AS BEING EXACT OR COMPLETE. THE CONTRACTOR MUST CALL THE LOCAL
UTILITY LOCATION CENTER AT LEAST 48 HOURS BEFORE ANY EXCAVATION TO
REQUEST EXACT FIELD LOCATIONS OF THE UTILITIES. IT SHALL BE THE
RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CONTRACTOR TO RELOCATE ALL EXISTING UTILITIES
WHICH CONFLICT WITH THE PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS SHOWN ON THE PLANS.
DRAWING BY:
REVIEWED BY:
MICHAEL DEMKOWICZ
04/07/26
04/07/26
1" = 50'
0 25' 50'
OVERALL SITE & UTILITY
PLAN
C201
N
100'
EXHIBIT A7
58
R195'-0"
TYPYICAL PAVEMENT SECTIONS
SCALE: N.T.S.1
2% CROWN 2% CROSS SLOPE
No. 4857264
MICHAEL
DEMKOWICZREGISTERED
 PROFESSIONA ENGINEER
STATE OF UTAH
L
04 08 2026
SHEET
SEALDESIGNED BY:
PROJECT No.:
1-1-21
P.O. BOX 2664 | 2700 W. HOMESTEAD RD. STE 50,
PARK CITY, UT 84098 | 435-649-9467
# DATE DESCRIPTION
JOSEPH FIALA
JOSEPH FIALA
CROSSROADS AT SILVER CREEK
GRADING PERMIT
04/07/26
CAUTION: NOTICE TO CONTRACTOR
THE CONTRACTOR IS SPECIFICALLY CAUTIONED THAT THE LOCATION AND/OR
ELEVATION OF EXISTING UTILITIES AS SHOWN ON THESE PLAN IS BASED ON
RECORDS OF THE VARIOUS UTILITY COMPANIES AND, WHERE POSSIBLE,
MEASUREMENTS TAKEN IN THE FIELD. THE INFORMATION IS NOT TO BE RELIED
ON AS BEING EXACT OR COMPLETE. THE CONTRACTOR MUST CALL THE LOCAL
UTILITY LOCATION CENTER AT LEAST 48 HOURS BEFORE ANY EXCAVATION TO
REQUEST EXACT FIELD LOCATIONS OF THE UTILITIES. IT SHALL BE THE
RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CONTRACTOR TO RELOCATE ALL EXISTING UTILITIES
WHICH CONFLICT WITH THE PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS SHOWN ON THE PLANS.
DRAWING BY:
REVIEWED BY:
MICHAEL DEMKOWICZ
04/07/26
04/07/26
OVERALL GRADING PLAN
C202
NORTH
N
1" = 50'
0 25' 50' 100'
1" = 50'
0 25' 50'
N
100'
EXHIBIT A8
59
14
24'-0"
7
24'-0" 14
G
W
I
H
R
P
O
N
14
24'-0"
26
BA
8
6
12
26
24'-0"TYP.104
E
F
D
16 12
7
C
24
K
Nanga BearLane
L
M
24'-0"
6
30
15
7
4
J
24'-0"
TYP.
Nanga Bear
Lane
21
24'-0"
5
24'-0"
U
T
S
Q
V
3
2
12'-0"
SIDE YARD
SETBACK
PUBLIC UTILITY
EASEMENT
(10'-0" WIDE OFFPROPERTY LINE)
20'-0"  SBWRD
UTILITY & ACCESS
EASEMENT
30'-0"
FRONT YARD
SETBACK
20'-0"
UTILITY
EASEMENT
30'-0"
FRONT YARDSETBACK
30'-0"
FRONT YARDSETBACK
50'-0" UTILITY
EASEMENT & R.O.W.
30'-0"
FRONTYARD
SETBACK
12'-0"
SIDE YARD
SETBACK
12'-0"
SIDE YARDSETBACK
30'-0"
FRONTYARDSETBACK
30'-0"
FRONT YARD
SETBACK
40'-0"
WETLANDSETBACK
30'-0"
FRONT YARDSETBACK
20'-0"
UTILITY
EASEMENT
100'-0"
I-80 UDOT
R.O.W. SETBACK
24'-0"
Nanga BearLane
Nanga Bear
Lane
24'-0"
30'-0"
Front YardSetback
30'-0"FRONT YARD
SETBACK
Easements and Setbacks:
Nanga Bear Lane
Proposed Property Line
30' Setback
Parking Lot Area Outline
Development Data:
 Building Pads:                             Square Feet 
Commercial:
A (1 Floor)  3,000 sf
B (1 Floor)  7,000 sf
C (1 Floor)  6,000 sf
D (1 Floor)  4,000 sf
E (1 Floor)  4,000 sf
F (1 Floor)  4,000 sf
G (1 Floor)                 4,000 sf                
Total:32,000 sf
Residential - Apartments:
H (2 Floors - 2 Bedroom Apts.)   8,120 sf   8 Units
  (1 Market Rate Unit, 7 Affordable Rate Units)
 I (2 Floors  - 2 Bedroom Apts.)   8,120 sf   8 Units 
J (2 Floors  - 1 Bedroom Apts.)   5,840 sf   8 Units
 (3 Market Rate Units, 5 Affordable Rate Units)
Total:               22,080 sf  24 Units
Residential (Townhomes):
K (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
L (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
M (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
N (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
O (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
P (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
Q (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
R (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
S (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
T (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
U (2 Floors)14,280 sf  6 Units
Total:             157,080 sf  66 Units
Clubhouse:
V (1 Floor) 2,500 sf
Non-Profit Use: 
W (2 Floors) 4,000 sf
Project Total:                    217,660 sf  90 Units
(70 Market Rate Units, 20 Affordable Rate Units)
Outdoor Play Area
Trash Enclosure
Earl StreetYield Sign
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2022
10/08/25
Crossroads at Silver Creek
L-001 Existing Setbacks Exhibit
N
045180 90
Easements, Rights Of Way (R.O.W.), and Setbacks:
Front Yard Setback
Side Yard Setback
I-80 UDOT R.O.W. Setback
Utility Easements
R.O.W Easements
Wetland Delineation
Location Based
on 1967 Plat
Existing Property Lines, Typ.
Plaza Area, Typ.
E-Bike Charging Station
Stop Sign
Trash Enclosure
Trash Enclosure
Open Space, Typ.
Transit Stop
Neighborhood Trail, Typ.
(Material to be Determined)
Monument Sign
Monument Sign
Bench, Typ.
Drop-Off Area
ADA Parking, Typ.
Bike Racks
Earl Street Public
Roadway Easement to be
Relocated to the New Proposed
Roundabout Parcel
Open Space, Typ.
Open Space, Typ.
Pickleball /Basketball Court
Pavillion
Playground
Jumping Pillow
Mailboxes for Townhomes &
Apartments in Clubhouse
Pool
Mailbox Pull Out
Wetland Delineation & Setback
ADA Van Parking
ADA Parking, Typ.
ADA Van Parking
Bench, Typ.
Upon Approval, Front Yard Setback
Will Convert to a Side Yard Setback
(See Sheet L-001.1)
Stop Sign
Stop Sign
EXHIBIT A9
60
14
24'-0"
7
24'-0" 14
G
W
I
H
R
P
O
N
14
24'-0"
26
BA
8
6
12
26
24'-0"TYP.104
E
F
D
16 12
7
C
24
K
Nanga BearLane
L
M
24'-0"
6
30
15
7
4
J
24'-0"
TYP.
Nanga Bear
Lane
21
24'-0"
5
24'-0"
U
T
S
Q
V
3
2
12'-0"
SIDE YARD
SETBACK
PUBLIC UTILITY
EASEMENT
(10'-0" WIDE OFFPROPERTY LINE)
20'-0"  SBWRD
UTILITY & ACCESS
EASEMENT
30'-0"
FRONT YARD
SETBACK
20'-0"
UTILITY
EASEMENT
30'-0"
FRONTYARD
SETBACK
12'-0"
SIDE YARD
SETBACK
12'-0"
SIDE YARDSETBACK
30'-0"
FRONTYARDSETBACK
30'-0"
FRONT YARD
SETBACK
40'-0"
WETLANDSETBACK
20'-0"
UTILITY
EASEMENT
100'-0"
I-80 UDOT
R.O.W. SETBACK
12'-0"
SIDE YARDSETBACK
24'-0"
Nanga BearLane
Nanga Bear
Lane
24'-0"
12'-0"
SIDE YARDSETBACK
30'-0"FRONT YARD
SETBACK
Easements and Setbacks:
Nanga Bear Lane
Proposed Property Line
30' Setback
Parking Lot Area Outline
Development Data:
 Building Pads:                             Square Feet 
Commercial:
A (1 Floor)  3,000 sf
B (1 Floor)  7,000 sf
C (1 Floor)  6,000 sf
D (1 Floor)  4,000 sf
E (1 Floor)  4,000 sf
F (1 Floor)  4,000 sf
G (1 Floor)                 4,000 sf                
Total:32,000 sf
Residential - Apartments:
H (2 Floors - 2 Bedroom Apts.)   8,120 sf   8 Units
  (1 Market Rate Unit, 7 Affordable Rate Units)
 I (2 Floors  - 2 Bedroom Apts.)   8,120 sf   8 Units 
J (2 Floors  - 1 Bedroom Apts.)   5,840 sf   8 Units
 (3 Market Rate Units, 5 Affordable Rate Units)
Total:               22,080 sf  24 Units
Residential (Townhomes):
K (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
L (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
M (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
N (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
O (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
P (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
Q (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
R (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
S (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
T (2 Floors)14,280 sf   6 Units
U (2 Floors)14,280 sf  6 Units
Total:             157,080 sf  66 Units
Clubhouse:
V (1 Floor) 2,500 sf
Non-Profit Use: 
W (2 Floors) 4,000 sf
Project Total:                    217,660 sf  90 Units
(70 Market Rate Units, 20 Affordable Rate Units)
Outdoor Play Area
Trash Enclosure
Earl StreetYield Sign
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2022
10/08/25
Crossroads at Silver Creek
L-001.1 Proposed Setbacks Exhibit
N
045180 90
Easements, Rights Of Way (R.O.W.), and Setbacks:
Front Yard Setback
Side Yard Setback
I-80 UDOT R.O.W. Setback
Utility Easements
UDOT Utility & Acess Easement
Wetland Delineation
Location Based
on 1967 Plat
Existing Property Lines, Typ.
Plaza Area, Typ.
E-Bike Charging Station
Stop Sign
Trash Enclosure
Trash Enclosure
Open Space, Typ.
Transit Stop
Neighborhood Trail, Typ.
(Material to be Determined)
Monument Sign
Monument Sign
Bench, Typ.
Drop-Off Area
ADA Parking, Typ.
Bike Racks
Earl Street Public
Roadway Easement to be
Relocated to the New Proposed
Roundabout Parcel
Open Space, Typ.
Open Space, Typ.
Pickleball /Basketball Court
Pavillion
Playground
Jumping Pillow
Mailboxes for Townhomes &
Apartments in Clubhouse
Pool
Mailbox Pull Out
Wetland Delineation & Setback
ADA Van Parking
ADA Parking, Typ.
ADA Van Parking
Bench, Typ.
Note:
Proposed Setbacks Shown (See Sheet L-001 for Existing Setbacks)
Stop Sign
Stop Sign
EXHIBIT A10
61
14
24'-0"
7
24'-0" 14
G
W
I
H
R
P
O
N
14
24'-0"
26
BA
8
6
12
26
24'-0"TYP.104
E
F
D
16 12
7
C
24
K
Nanga BearLane
L
M
24'-0"
6
30
15
7
4
J
24'-0"
TYP.
Nanga Bear
Lane
21
24'-0"
5
24'-0"
U
T
S
Q
V
3
2
12'-0"
SIDE YARD
SETBACK
PUBLIC UTILITY
EASEMENT
(10'-0" WIDE OFFPROPERTY LINE)
20'-0"  SBWRD
UTILITY & ACCESS
EASEMENT
30'-0"
FRONT YARD
SETBACK
20'-0"
UTILITY
EASEMENT
30'-0"
FRONT YARDSETBACK
30'-0"
FRONT YARDSETBACK
50'-0" UTILITY
EASEMENT & R.O.W.
30'-0"
FRONTYARD
SETBACK
12'-0"
SIDE YARD
SETBACK
12'-0"
SIDE YARDSETBACK
30'-0"
FRONTYARDSETBACK
30'-0"
FRONT YARD
SETBACK
40'-0"
WETLANDSETBACK
30'-0"
FRONT YARDSETBACK
20'-0"
UTILITY
EASEMENT
100'-0"
I-80 UDOT
R.O.W. SETBACK
24'-0"
Nanga BearLane
Nanga Bear
Lane
24'-0"
30'-0"
Front YardSetback
30'-0"FRONT YARD
SETBACK
Outdoor Play Area
Trash Enclosure
Earl StreetYield Sign
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2022
10/08/25
Crossroads at Silver Creek
L-001A Easements & ROW Exhibit
N
045180 90
Location Based
on 1967 Plat
Existing Property Lines, Typ.
Plaza Area, Typ.
E-Bike Charging Station
Stop Sign
Trash Enclosure
Trash Enclosure
Open Space, Typ.
Neighborhood Trail, Typ.
(Material to be Determined)
Monument Sign
Monument Sign
Bench, Typ.
Bike Racks
Earl Street Public
Roadway Easement to be
Relocated to the New Proposed
Roundabout Parcel
Open Space, Typ.
Open Space, Typ.
Pickleball /Basketball Court
Pavillion
Playground
Jumping Pillow
Mailboxes for Townhomes &
Apartments in Clubhouse
Pool
Wetland Delineation & Setback
Easements, Rights Of Way (R.O.W.), and Setbacks:
Front Yard Setback
Side Yard Setback
I-80 UDOT R.O.W. Setback
Utility Easements
R.O.W Easements
Wetland Delineation
Mailbox Pull Out
Transit Stop
Drop-Off Area
ADA Parking, Typ.
ADA Van Parking
ADA Parking, Typ.
ADA Van Parking
Stop Sign
Stop Sign
EXHIBIT A11
62
14
24'-0"
7
24'-0" 14
G
W
I
H
R
P
O
N
14
24'-0"
26
BA
8
6
12
26
24'-0"TYP.104
E
F
D
16 12
7
C
24
K
Nanga BearLane
L
M
24'-0"
6
30
15
7
4
J
24'-0"
TYP.
Nanga Bear
Lane
21
24'-0"
5
24'-0"
U
T
S
Q
V
3
2
24'-0"
Nanga BearLane
Nanga Bear
Lane
24'-0"
Outdoor Play Area
Trash Enclosure
Earl StreetYield Sign
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2022
10/08/25
Crossroads at Silver Creek
L-001B Parking Lot Square Footage Exhibit
N
045180 90
Parking Lot Area #3
Summit County Code 10-4-9:  Parking Requirements
15. Parking Area Setbacks: All parking areas with fifteen (15) or more spaces shall be subject to the regulations below:
a. Parking areas shall be set back at least the following distances in order to provide a buffer:
(1) Thirty feet (30') from road rights of way, except for a property access driveway;
(2) Thirty feet (30') from side and rear property lines;
(3) Ten feet (10') from the facade of a structure.
Location Based
on 1967 Plat
Existing Property Lines, Typ.
Plaza Area, Typ.
E-Bike Charging Station
Stop Sign
Trash Enclosure
Trash Enclosure
Open Space, Typ.
Neighborhood Trail, Typ.
(Material to be Determined)
Monument Sign
Monument Sign
Bench, Typ.
Bike Racks
Earl Street Public
Roadway Easement to be
Relocated to the New Proposed
Roundabout Parcel
Open Space, Typ.
Open Space, Typ.
Pickleball /Basketball Court
Pavillion
Playground
Jumping Pillow
Mailboxes for Townhomes &
Apartments in Clubhouse
Pool
Wetland Delineation & Setback
Legend:
Parking Lot Area Outline
Mailbox Pull Out
Transit Stop
Drop-Off Area
ADA Parking, Typ.
ADA Van Parking
ADA Parking, Typ.
ADA Van Parking
Stop Sign
Stop Sign
EXHIBIT A12
63
14
SEE SHEET L-101
SEE SHEET L-102
9'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
25'-0"
TYP.
Nanga Bear
Lane
24'-0"
R12'-0"TYP.
6'-0"
TYP.
N
W
U
T
S
R
Q
P
O
M
L
K
N
J
I
H
A B
C
DE
F
G
v
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2022
10/08/25
Crossroads at Silver Creek
L-101 Area 1 - Layout & Materials Plan
01560 30
W
V
UT
N
Key Plan
Play Structure
Playground Fencing
Trash Enclosure
Neighborhood Trail, Typ.
(Material to be Determined
ADA Parking, Typ.Open Space, Typ. Decks, Typ.
EXHIBIT A13
64
6
12
26
104
12
24
6
30
15
3
SEE SHEET L-101
SEE SHEET L-102
SEE SHEET L-102
SEE SHEET L-103
24'-0"
TYP.
25'-0"
TYP.
9'-0" TYP.
18'-0"TYP.
9'-0"
TYP. 18'-0"TYP.
Nanga Bear
Lane
24'-0"
TYP.
R28'-0"TYP.
R12'-0"
24'-0"TYP.
25'-0"TYP.
6'-0"
TYP.
25'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"TYP.
12'-0"SIDE YARD
SETBACK
SIDE YARD
SETBACK
N
W
U
T
S
R
Q
P
O
M
L
K
N
J
I
H
A B
C
DE
F
G
v
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2022
10/08/25
Crossroads at Silver Creek
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2022
10/08/25
Crossroads at Silver Creek
L-102 Area 2 - Layout & Materials Plan
01560 30
N
Key Plan
SRQP
L
K M
Open Space, Typ.
Pickleball /Basketball Court
Pavillion
Playground
Jumping Pillow
Bench, Typ. Decks, Typ. Neighborhood Trail, Typ.
(Material to be Determined)
Patios, Typ.
Bench, Typ.
EXHIBIT A14
65
7
6
12
26
16
12
7
6
3015
7
5
3
2
SEE SHEET L-102SEE SHEET L-103
SEE SHEET L-103SEE SHEET L-104
24'-0"TYP.
6'-0"
TYP.
9'-0" TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
9'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
9'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
R28'-0"
TYP.
R12'-0"
24'-0"
TYP.
R28'-0"
24'-0"TYP.
10'-0"
R12'-0"
TYP.
25'-0"
TYP.
9'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
R28'-0"
18'-0"TYP.
10'-0"
Nanga Bear
Lane
40'-0"
WETLANDSETBACK
N
W
U
T
S
R
Q
P
O
M
L
K
N
J
I
H
A B
C
DE
F
G
v
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2022
10/08/25
Crossroads at Silver Creek
L-103 Area 3 - Layout & Materials Plan
01560 30
Key Plan
V
OJ
H I
C
G
Trash Enclosure
Pool
Open Space, Typ.
Bike Racks
Neighborhood Trail, Typ.
(Material to be Determined)
E-Bike Charging Station
Neighborhood Trail, Typ.
(Material to be Determined)
Crosswalk, Typ.
Decks, Typ.
N
Transit Stop Mailboxes for Townhomes &
Apartments in Clubhouse
Wetland Delineation
& Setback
Bench, Typ.
ADA Van Parking
Stop Sign
ADA Parking, Typ. Drop-Off Area
EXHIBIT A15
66
14
8
16
7
4
SEE SHEET L-103SEE SHEET L-104
24'-0"
9'-0"TYP.
18'-0"TYP.
R28'-0"
10'-0"
R28'-0"
R12'-0"TYP.
9'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
50'-0"
TYP.
R28'-0"
R28'-0"
TYP.
30'-0"
Front Yard
N
W
U
T
S
R
Q
P
O
M
L
K
N
J
I
H
A B
C
DE
F
G
v
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2022
10/08/25
Crossroads at Silver Creek
L-104 Area 4 - Layout & Materials Plan
N
01560 30
B
D
F E
A
Key Plan
Crosswalk, Typ.
Plaza Area, Typ.
Crosswalk, Typ.
Crosswalk, Typ.
Trash Enclosure
Neighborhood Trail, Typ.
(Material to be Determined)
Stop Sign
Monument Sign, Typ.
ADA Van Parking
ADA Parking, Typ.
Stop Sign
Crosswalk, Typ.
Crosswalk, Typ.
EXHIBIT A16
67
G
W
I
H
R
P
O
N
BA
E
F
D
C
K
L
M
J
U
T
S
Q
V
Landscape Areas
Parking Lot Area:  66,486 sq. ft.
Landscape Area:  16,677 sq. ft. (25.0%)
Total Area Development Area = 639,950 SF (14.69 Acres)
Total Open Space Area = 292,462 SF (6.71 Acres)
Percentage of Open Space = 45.0%
Parking Lot
Area Line, Typ.
Parking Lot
Area Line, Typ.
Parking Lot
Area Line, Typ.
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2022
10/08/25
Crossroads at Silver Creek
L-200 Parking & Landscape Plan
040160 80
N
Legend:
PARKING CALCULATIONS
Units Unit RatioRequired Stalls Garage Stalls ProvidedSurface Stalls Provided
32,000 SF3.5112-112
1 Bedroom Apartment - Market3 1.03-3
2 Bedroom Apartment - Market12.02-2
1 Bedroom Apartment - Affordable5 1.05-5
2 Bedroom Apartment - Affordable15 2.030-30
Apartment Visitor Stalls - Affordable20 0.255-5
2 Bedroom - Townhome (Garage)44 2.08888-
3 Bedroom - Townhome (Garage)222.04444-
3 Bedroom - Townhome Visitor 22 1.022-22
TOTAL PARKING311132179
4,000 SF3.514-14
CommercialResidential
Non-Profit
(EXEMPT)
EXHIBIT A17
68
G
W
I
H
R
P
O
N
BA
E
F
D
C
K
L
M
J
U
T
S
Q
V
SHRUBS
TREES
SYMBOL    SCIENTIFIC NAME        COMMON NAME        SIZE       QTY.
GRASSES
PERENNIALS - 24" O.C. TRIANGULAR SPACING
PLANTING SCHEDULE
Acer ginnala 'Flame"Amur Maple15 Gal. Clump 39
Acer x freemanii 'Jeffersred'Autumn Blaze Maple1" Cal. 24
Celtis occidentalisCommon Hackberry1" Cal. 17
Fraxinus mandshurica 'Mancana'Autumn Purple Ash1" Cal. 9
Picea glauca 'Pendula'Weeping White Spruce6-8' Tall 9
Picea pungensGreen Colorado Spruce6-8' Tall 28
Populus tremuloidesQuaking Aspen1" Cal. 51
Populus tremula 'Erecta'Columnar Swedish Aspen1" Cal. 21
Amelanchier alnifolia 'Regent'Serviceberry Shrub5 Gal. 153
Cornus sericea 'Kelseyi'Dwarf Red Osier Dogwood5 Gal. 127
Physocarpus opulifolius 'Dart's Gold' Ninebark5 Gal. 207
Rhus aromatica 'Gro-Low'Fragrant Sumac5 Gal. 124
Ribes alpinum 'Greenmound'Alpine Currant5 Gal. 228
Ribes auremGolden Currant5 Gal. 104
Pinus mugo 'Mughus'Mugo Pine5 Gal. 163
Spirea x bumalda 'Flaming Mound" Gold Spirea5 Gal. 49
Deschampsia cepitosa 'Pixie Fountain' Dwarf Tufted Hairgrass1 Gal. 253
Schizachyrium scoparium 'Carousel' Little Blue Stem1 Gal. 228
Schizachyrium scoparium 'Smoke Signal' Little Blue Stem1 Gal. 480
Sporobolus heterolepisPrairie Dropseed1 Gal. 453
Hydro SeedNative Grass Mix
TurfBio Grass
1 Gal.
Achillea millefolium 'Summerwine'Yarrow
Aster alpinusAlpine Aster
Campanula carpatica Blue ChipsBellflower
Echinacea purpureaPurple Coneflower
Gaillardia aristata 'Arizona Sun'Blanket Flower
Hemerocallis 'Chicago Apache'Red Daylily
Heuchera 'Firefly'Coral Bells
Lamium maculatum 'Lemon Frost'Lemon Frost Pink Nettle
Oenothera missouriensisMissouri Evening Primrose
Phlox subulata 'Drummond Pink'Creeping Phlox
Rudbeckia x American Gold RushBlack Eyed Susan
Salvia nemorosa 'May Night'Salvia
Scabiosa columbaria 'Rose Pink'Pincushion Flower
Notes:  1. All Planter Beds Shall be Covered in 4" Min. of Bark Mulch.
  2. Placement of Trees to be Approved by Landscape Architect.
* Final Landscaping to be Provided with Each Building Permit Set.
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2022
10/08/25
Crossroads at Silver Creek
L-300 Overall Landscape Plan
040160 80
N
EXHIBIT A18
69
SEE SHEET L-101
SEE SHEET L-102
SHRUBS
TREES
SYMBOL    SCIENTIFIC NAME        COMMON NAME        SIZE       QTY.
GRASSES
PERENNIALS - 24" O.C. TRIANGULAR SPACING
PLANTING SCHEDULE
Acer ginnala 'Flame"Amur Maple15 Gal. Clump
Acer x freemanii 'Jeffersred'Autumn Blaze Maple1" Cal.
Celtis occidentalisCommon Hackberry1" Cal.
Fraxinus mandshurica 'Mancana'Autumn Purple Ash1" Cal.
Picea glauca 'Pendula'Weeping White Spruce6-8' Tall
Picea pungensGreen Colorado Spruce6-8' Tall
Populus tremuloidesQuaking Aspen1" Cal.
Populus tremula 'Erecta'Columnar Swedish Aspen1" Cal.
Amelanchier alnifolia 'Regent'Serviceberry Shrub5 Gal.
Cornus sericea 'Kelseyi'Dwarf Red Osier Dogwood5 Gal.
Physocarpus opulifolius 'Dart's Gold' Ninebark5 Gal.
Rhus aromatica 'Gro-Low'Fragrant Sumac5 Gal.
Ribes alpinum 'Greenmound'Alpine Currant5 Gal.
Ribes auremGolden Currant5 Gal.
Pinus mugo 'Mughus'Mugo Pine5 Gal.
Spirea x bumalda 'Flaming Mound" Gold Spirea5 Gal. 
Deschampsia cepitosa 'Pixie Fountain' Dwarf Tufted Hairgrass1 Gal.
Schizachyrium scoparium 'Carousel' Little Blue Stem1 Gal.
Schizachyrium scoparium 'Smoke Signal' Little Blue Stem1 Gal.
Sporobolus heterolepisPrairie Dropseed1 Gal.
Hydro SeedNative Grass Mix
TurfBio Grass
1 Gal.
Achillea millefolium 'Summerwine'Yarrow
Aster alpinusAlpine Aster
Campanula carpatica Blue ChipsBellflower
Echinacea purpureaPurple Coneflower
Gaillardia aristata 'Arizona Sun'Blanket Flower
Hemerocallis 'Chicago Apache'Red Daylily
Heuchera 'Firefly'Coral Bells
Lamium maculatum 'Lemon Frost'Lemon Frost Pink Nettle
Oenothera missouriensisMissouri Evening Primrose
Phlox subulata 'Drummond Pink'Creeping Phlox
Rudbeckia x American Gold RushBlack Eyed Susan
Salvia nemorosa 'May Night'Salvia
Scabiosa columbaria 'Rose Pink'Pincushion Flower
Notes:  1. All Planter Beds Shall be Covered in 4" Min. of Bark Mulch.
  2. Placement of Trees to be Approved by Landscape Architect.
* Final Landscaping to be Provided with Each Building Permit Set.
N
W
V
U
T
S
R
Q
P
M
L
K
O
N
C
J
I
H
G
DE
A
F
B
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2022
10/08/25
Crossroads at Silver Creek
L-301 Area 1 - Landscape Plan
01560 30
W
S
N
Key Plan
U
T
EXHIBIT A19
70
SEE SHEET L-101
SEE SHEET L-102
SEE SHEET L-102
SEE SHEET L-103
SHRUBS
TREES
SYMBOL    SCIENTIFIC NAME        COMMON NAME        SIZE       QTY.
GRASSES
PERENNIALS - 24" O.C. TRIANGULAR SPACING
PLANTING SCHEDULE
Acer ginnala 'Flame"Amur Maple15 Gal. Clump
Acer x freemanii 'Jeffersred'Autumn Blaze Maple1" Cal.
Celtis occidentalisCommon Hackberry1" Cal.
Fraxinus mandshurica 'Mancana'Autumn Purple Ash1" Cal.
Picea glauca 'Pendula'Weeping White Spruce6-8' Tall
Picea pungensGreen Colorado Spruce6-8' Tall
Populus tremuloidesQuaking Aspen1" Cal.
Populus tremula 'Erecta'Columnar Swedish Aspen1" Cal.
Amelanchier alnifolia 'Regent'Serviceberry Shrub5 Gal.
Cornus sericea 'Kelseyi'Dwarf Red Osier Dogwood5 Gal.
Physocarpus opulifolius 'Dart's Gold' Ninebark5 Gal.
Rhus aromatica 'Gro-Low'Fragrant Sumac5 Gal.
Ribes alpinum 'Greenmound'Alpine Currant5 Gal.
Ribes auremGolden Currant5 Gal.
Pinus mugo 'Mughus'Mugo Pine5 Gal.
Spirea x bumalda 'Flaming Mound" Gold Spirea5 Gal. 
Deschampsia cepitosa 'Pixie Fountain' Dwarf Tufted Hairgrass1 Gal.
Schizachyrium scoparium 'Carousel' Little Blue Stem1 Gal.
Schizachyrium scoparium 'Smoke Signal' Little Blue Stem1 Gal.
Sporobolus heterolepisPrairie Dropseed1 Gal.
Hydro SeedNative Grass Mix
TurfBio Grass
1 Gal.
Achillea millefolium 'Summerwine'Yarrow
Aster alpinusAlpine Aster
Campanula carpatica Blue ChipsBellflower
Echinacea purpureaPurple Coneflower
Gaillardia aristata 'Arizona Sun'Blanket Flower
Hemerocallis 'Chicago Apache'Red Daylily
Heuchera 'Firefly'Coral Bells
Lamium maculatum 'Lemon Frost'Lemon Frost Pink Nettle
Oenothera missouriensisMissouri Evening Primrose
Phlox subulata 'Drummond Pink'Creeping Phlox
Rudbeckia x American Gold RushBlack Eyed Susan
Salvia nemorosa 'May Night'Salvia
Scabiosa columbaria 'Rose Pink'Pincushion Flower
Notes:  1. All Planter Beds Shall be Covered in 4" Min. of Bark Mulch.
  2. Placement of Trees to be Approved by Landscape Architect.
* Final Landscaping to be Provided with Each Building Permit Set.
N
W
V
U
T
S
R
Q
P
M
L
K
O
N
C
J
I
H
G
DE
A
F
B
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2022
10/08/25
Crossroads at Silver Creek
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2022
10/08/25
Crossroads at Silver Creek
L-302 Area 2 - Landscape Plan
01560 30
N
Key Plan
RQPO
LK M
EXHIBIT A20
71
SEE SHEET L-102SEE SHEET L-103
SEE SHEET L-103SEE SHEET L-104
SHRUBS
TREES
SYMBOL    SCIENTIFIC NAME        COMMON NAME        SIZE       QTY.
PLANTING SCHEDULE
Acer ginnala 'Flame"Amur Maple15 Gal. Clump
Acer x freemanii 'Jeffersred'Autumn Blaze Maple1" Cal.
Celtis occidentalisCommon Hackberry1" Cal.
Fraxinus mandshurica 'Mancana'Autumn Purple Ash1" Cal.
Picea glauca 'Pendula'Weeping White Spruce6-8' Tall
Picea pungensGreen Colorado Spruce6-8' Tall
Populus tremuloidesQuaking Aspen1" Cal.
Populus tremula 'Erecta'Columnar Swedish Aspen1" Cal.
Amelanchier alnifolia 'Regent'Serviceberry Shrub5 Gal.
Cornus sericea 'Kelseyi'Dwarf Red Osier Dogwood5 Gal.
Physocarpus opulifolius 'Dart's Gold' Ninebark5 Gal.
Rhus aromatica 'Gro-Low'Fragrant Sumac5 Gal.
Ribes alpinum 'Greenmound'Alpine Currant5 Gal.
Ribes auremGolden Currant5 Gal.
Pinus mugo 'Mughus'Mugo Pine5 Gal.
Spirea x bumalda 'Flaming Mound" Gold Spirea5 Gal. 
N
W
V
U
T
S
R
Q
P
M
L
K
O
N
C
J
I
H
G
DE
A
F
B
GRASSES
PERENNIALS - 24" O.C. TRIANGULAR SPACING
Deschampsia cepitosa 'Pixie Fountain' Dwarf Tufted Hairgrass1 Gal.
Schizachyrium scoparium 'Carousel' Little Blue Stem1 Gal.
Schizachyrium scoparium 'Smoke Signal' Little Blue Stem1 Gal.
Sporobolus heterolepisPrairie Dropseed1 Gal.
Hydro SeedNative Grass Mix
TurfBio Grass
1 Gal.
Achillea millefolium 'Summerwine'Yarrow
Aster alpinusAlpine Aster
Campanula carpatica Blue ChipsBellflower
Echinacea purpureaPurple Coneflower
Gaillardia aristata 'Arizona Sun'Blanket Flower
Hemerocallis 'Chicago Apache'Red Daylily
Heuchera 'Firefly'Coral Bells
Lamium maculatum 'Lemon Frost'Lemon Frost Pink Nettle
Oenothera missouriensisMissouri Evening Primrose
Phlox subulata 'Drummond Pink'Creeping Phlox
Rudbeckia x American Gold RushBlack Eyed Susan
Salvia nemorosa 'May Night'Salvia
Scabiosa columbaria 'Rose Pink'Pincushion Flower
Notes:  1. All Planter Beds Shall be Covered in 4" Min. of Bark Mulch.
  2. Placement of Trees to be Approved by Landscape Architect.
* Final Landscaping to be Provided with Each Building Permit Set.
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2022
10/08/25
Crossroads at Silver Creek
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2022
10/08/25
Crossroads at Silver Creek
L-303 Area 3 - Landscape Plan
01560 30
N
Key Plan
V
NJ
H I
C
G
EXHIBIT A21
72
SEE SHEET L-103SEE SHEET L-104
SHRUBS
TREES
SYMBOL    SCIENTIFIC NAME        COMMON NAME        SIZE       QTY.
GRASSES
PERENNIALS - 24" O.C. TRIANGULAR SPACING
PLANTING SCHEDULE
Acer ginnala 'Flame"Amur Maple15 Gal. Clump
Acer x freemanii 'Jeffersred'Autumn Blaze Maple1" Cal.
Celtis occidentalisCommon Hackberry1" Cal.
Fraxinus mandshurica 'Mancana'Autumn Purple Ash1" Cal.
Picea glauca 'Pendula'Weeping White Spruce6-8' Tall
Picea pungensGreen Colorado Spruce6-8' Tall
Populus tremuloidesQuaking Aspen1" Cal.
Populus tremula 'Erecta'Columnar Swedish Aspen1" Cal.
Amelanchier alnifolia 'Regent'Serviceberry Shrub5 Gal.
Cornus sericea 'Kelseyi'Dwarf Red Osier Dogwood5 Gal.
Physocarpus opulifolius 'Dart's Gold' Ninebark5 Gal.
Rhus aromatica 'Gro-Low'Fragrant Sumac5 Gal.
Ribes alpinum 'Greenmound'Alpine Currant5 Gal.
Ribes auremGolden Currant5 Gal.
Pinus mugo 'Mughus'Mugo Pine5 Gal.
Spirea x bumalda 'Flaming Mound" Gold Spirea5 Gal. 
Deschampsia cepitosa 'Pixie Fountain' Dwarf Tufted Hairgrass1 Gal.
Schizachyrium scoparium 'Carousel' Little Blue Stem1 Gal.
Schizachyrium scoparium 'Smoke Signal' Little Blue Stem1 Gal.
Sporobolus heterolepisPrairie Dropseed1 Gal.
Hydro SeedNative Grass Mix
TurfBio Grass
1 Gal.
Achillea millefolium 'Summerwine'Yarrow
Aster alpinusAlpine Aster
Campanula carpatica Blue ChipsBellflower
Echinacea purpureaPurple Coneflower
Gaillardia aristata 'Arizona Sun'Blanket Flower
Hemerocallis 'Chicago Apache'Red Daylily
Heuchera 'Firefly'Coral Bells
Lamium maculatum 'Lemon Frost'Lemon Frost Pink Nettle
Oenothera missouriensisMissouri Evening Primrose
Phlox subulata 'Drummond Pink'Creeping Phlox
Rudbeckia x American Gold RushBlack Eyed Susan
Salvia nemorosa 'May Night'Salvia
Scabiosa columbaria 'Rose Pink'Pincushion Flower
Notes:  1. All Planter Beds Shall be Covered in 4" Min. of Bark Mulch.
  2. Placement of Trees to be Approved by Landscape Architect.
* Final Landscaping to be Provided with Each Building Permit Set.
N
W
V
U
T
S
R
Q
P
M
L
K
O
N
C
J
I
H
G
DE
A
F
B
N
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2022
10/08/25
Crossroads at Silver Creek
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2022
10/08/25
Crossroads at Silver Creek
L-304 Area 4 - Landscape Plan
01560 30
B
D
F E
A
Key Plan
EXHIBIT A22
73
G
W
I
H
R
P
O
N
BA
E
F
D
C
K
L
M
J
U
T
S
Q
V
Parking Lot Area:  118,745 sq. ft.
Snow Storage Area:  19,519 sq. ft. (16.4%)
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2022
10/08/25
Crossroads at Silver Creek
L-400 Snow Storage Plan
N
040160 80
Legend:
EXHIBIT A23
74
G
W
I
H
R
P
O
N
BA
E
F
D
C
K
L
M
J
U
T
S
Q
V
Pole Light
Sign Schedule
SymbolDescription
Monument Sign
Lighting Schedule
SymbolDescription
Pole Light
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2022
10/08/25
Crossroads at Silver Creek
L-500 Lighting & Signage Plan
N
040160 80
Legend:
EXHIBIT A24
75
G
W
I
H
R
P
O
N
BA
E
F
D
C
K
L
M
J
U
T
S
Q
V
Proposed Bench Location
Pedestrian Circulation
Optional Trail Connection
Vehicle Circulation
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2022
10/08/25
Crossroads at Silver Creek
L-600 Circulation Plan
N
040160 80
Legend:
Loading & Unloading Zone
EXHIBIT A25
76
W
U
T
S
R
Q
P
O
N
V
C
D E
J
I
H
G
B A
M
L
K
F
N
6435' - 2"
6440' - 5"
W
U
T S
A-101
1
Building U -  F.F.L = 6416' - 6"
Ridge Elevation....................6443' - 5"
Existing Grade......................6415' - 0"
Proposed Grade...................6416' - 0"
Roof Over Topography.............28' - 5"
Building T -  F.F.L = 6415' - 6"
Ridge Elevation....................6440' - 0"
Existing Grade......................6414' - 0"
Proposed Grade...................6415' - 0"       
Roof Over Topography.............26' - 0"
Building S -  F.F.L = 6414' - 0"
Eave Elevation....................6440' - 11"
Existing Grade.....................6415' - 0"
Proposed Grade..................6413' - 6"
Roof Over Topography............27' - 5"
Building W - F.F.L = 6416' - 9"
Max Building Height............6442' - 0"
Existing Grade....................6410' - 0"
Proposed Grade.................6416' - 0"
Max Roof Over Topo..............32' - 0"
6415' - 0"
6413' - 6"
6415'-0"
6410'-0"
6427' - 4"
6436' - 2"
6428' - 1"
6429' - 7"
6438' - 11"
6431' - 0"
6437' - 7"
6415'-0"
6415'-0"
6431' - 0"
6410'-0"
6437' - 6"
6444' - 0"
6415'
6415'
6415'
Building U -  F.F.L = 6416' - 6"
Ridge Elevation....................6442' - 9"
Existing Grade......................6414' - 6"
Proposed Grade...................6416' - 0"
Roof Over Topography.............28' - 3"
6410'
6440' - 11"
Building S -  F.F.L = 6414' - 0"
Eave Elevation....................6441' - 10"
Existing Grade.....................6415' - 0"
Proposed Grade..................6414' - 7"
Roof Over Topography............27' - 3"
Building T -  F.F.L = 6415' - 6"
Ridge Elevation....................6440' - 0"
Existing Grade......................6414' - 6"
Proposed Grade...................6415' - 0"
Roof Over Topography.............25' - 6"
6441' - 10"
6436' - 9"
6436' - 8"
6443' - 5"
6439' - 3"
6442' - 9" 6439' - 3"6439' - 3"
6440' - 0"
6429' - 10"
6438' - 6"
6416' - 0"
6410'-0"
General Notes
1. Refer to Civil Drawings for Grading and Utility 
Information.
2. Refer to Landscape Drawings for Layout and Material 
Callout.
3. Refer to Sheet L-100 for Development Data, Parking 
Counts, and Site Connectivity.
4. Refer to A-400 Sheets for Enlarged Residential Units.
W U T S
32' Above Proposed Grade
Proposed Grade
32' Above Existing Grade
Existing Grade
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2025
4/16/2026
MPD - Rezone and CUP Package
A-101 Area 1 - ROT & Site Section
0 15 6030
N
Key Plan
Area 1 - Roof Over Topo - Buildings S, T, U, and W
0 15 6030
Area 1 - Site Section 1
EXHIBIT A26
77
W
U
T
S
R
Q
P
O
N
V
C
D E
J
I
H
G
B A
M
L
K
F
N
General Notes
1. Refer to Civil Drawings for Grading and Utility 
Information.
2. Refer to Landscape Drawings for Layout and Material 
Callout.
3. Refer to Sheet L-100 for Development Data, Parking 
Counts, and Site Connectivity.
4. Refer to A-400 Sheets for Enlarged Residential Units.
R Q P O
M
L K
A-102
1
2
6411' - 9" 6411' - 0"
6411' - 0"
6411' - 10" 6411' - 7"
6410'-0"
6410'-0"
6410'-0"
6426' - 5"
6435' - 9"
6434' - 5"
6427' - 9"
6431' - 11"
6440' - 9"
6437' - 2"
6424' - 10"
6435' - 0"
6433' - 8" 6433' - 8"
6434' - 3"
6435' - 7"
6425' - 5"
Building O -  F.F.L = 6411' - 6"
Eave Elevation.....................6438' - 5"
Existing Grade.....................6408' - 8"
Proposed Grade...................6410' - 9"
Roof Over Topography.............29' - 9"
Building P -  F.F.L = 6411' - 6"
Ridge Elevation....................6440' - 0"
Existing Grade......................6409' - 0"
Proposed Grade...................6411' - 0"
Roof Over Topography.............31' - 0"
Building Q -  F.F.L = 6411' - 6"
Ridge Elevation....................6437' - 9"
Existing Grade......................6408' - 6"
Proposed Grade...................6411' - 0"
Roof Over Topography.............29' - 3"
Building R -  F.F.L = 6412' - 3"
Ridge Elevation....................6440' - 9"
Existing Grade......................6412' - 6"
Proposed Grade...................6411' - 9"
Roof Over Topography.............29' - 0"
6427' - 9"
Building M -  F.F.L = 6412' - 4"
Ridge Elevation....................6439' - 3"
Existing Grade......................6411' - 0"
Proposed Grade...................6411' - 10"
Roof Over Topography.............28' - 3"
Building L -  F.F.L = 6411' - 9"
Ridge Elevation....................6440' - 3"
Existing Grade......................6413' - 3"
Proposed Grade...................6411' - 3"
Roof Over Topography.............27' - 0"
Building K -  F.F.L = 6412' - 1"
Ridge Elevation....................6438' - 4"
Existing Grade......................6410' - 3"
Proposed Grade...................6411' - 7"
Roof Over Topography.............28' - 1"
A-401-B4.
A-401-B
2.
A-401-C4.
A-401-C
2.
6410'-0"
6434' - 3"
6434' - 2"
6435' - 0"
6437' - 9"6434' - 3"
6434' - 10"
6434' - 9"
6434' - 10"
6438' - 4"
6434' - 10"
6411' - 0"
6411' - 3"
6435' - 0"
6424' - 10"
6438' - 7"
6439' - 2"
6410'
6415'
6410'
6410'
6415'
Building M -  F.F.L = 6412' - 4"
Ridge Elevation....................6440' - 2"
Existing Grade......................6411' - 0"
Proposed Grade...................6411' - 6"
Roof Over Topography.............29' - 2"
Building R -  F.F.L = 6412' - 3"
Ridge Elevation....................6440' - 9"
Existing Grade......................6411' - 6"
Proposed Grade...................6411' - 9"
Roof Over Topography.............29' - 3"
Building P -  F.F.L = 6411' - 6"
Ridge Elevation....................6440' - 0"
Existing Grade......................6408' - 0"
Proposed Grade...................6411' - 0"
Roof Over Topography.............32' - 0"
6440' - 0"
6427' - 0"
6431' - 2"
6436' - 5"
Building O -  F.F.L = 6411' - 6"
Eave Elevation.....................6439' - 4"
Existing Grade......................6408' - 8"
Proposed Grade...................6409' - 11"
Roof Over Topography.............30' - 8"
Building K -  F.F.L = 6412' - 1"
Ridge Elevation....................6439' - 2"
Existing Grade......................6411' - 0"
Proposed Grade...................6411' - 7"
Roof Over Topography.............28' - 2"
6440' - 3"
6436' - 8"
6431' - 5"
6427' - 3"
Building L -  F.F.L = 6411' - 9"
Ridge Elevation....................6440' - 3"
Existing Grade......................6411' - 0"
Proposed Grade...................6411' - 3"
Roof Over Topography.............29' - 9"
Building Q -  F.F.L = 6411' - 6"
Ridge Elevation....................6438' - 7"
Existing Grade......................6408' - 6"
Proposed Grade...................6411' - 0"
Roof Over Topography.............30' - 1"
6439' - 4"
6434' - 3"
6434' - 2"
6438' - 5"
6439' - 3"
6435' - 0"
6435' - 1"
6440' - 2" 6410'-0"
6410'-0"
6405'
-0"
-
---
R
32' Above Proposed Grade
Proposed Grade
Q P O
32' Above Existing Grade
Existing Grade
K L M
32' Above Proposed Grade
Proposed Grade
32' Above Existing Grade
Existing Grade
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2025
4/16/2026
MPD - Rezone and CUP Package
A-102 Area 2 - ROT & Site Section
Key Plan
0 15 6030
N
Area 2 - Roof Over Topo - Buildings K, L, M, O, P, Q, and R 
0 15 6030
Area 2 - Site Section 1
0 15 6030
Area 2 - Site Section 2
EXHIBIT A27
78
General Notes
1. Refer to Civil Drawings for Grading and Utility 
Information.
2. Refer to Landscape Drawings for Layout and Material 
Callout.
3. Refer to Sheet L-100 for Development Data, Parking 
Counts, and Site Connectivity.
4. Refer to A-400 Sheets for Enlarged Residential Units.
W
U
T
S
R
Q
P
O
N
V
C
D E
J
I
H
G
B A
M
L
K
F
N
N
C
G
HI
J
Building C - F.F.L = 6419' - 0"
Max Building Height..............6443' - 0"
Existing Grade......................6411' - 0"
Proposed Grade...................6415' - 0"
Max Roof Over Topo.................32' - 0"
Building H - F.F.L = 6417' - 6"
Ridge Elevation.....................6444' - 6"
Existing Grade.......................6413' - 9"
Proposed Grade....................6417' - 0"
Roof Over Topography..............30' - 9"
A-1032
A-103
3
1
6411' - 3"
6410'-0"
6415'-0"
64
20
'-0"
6433' - 11"
6435' - 3"
6425' - 11"
6427' - 3"
6424' - 4"
6440' - 3"
6436' - 8"
6431' - 5"
6443' - 6"
6433' - 9"
6436' - 0"
6436' - 0"
6425' - 0"
6437' - 6"
6437' - 6"
6443' - 6"
6443' - 6"
6437' - 6"
6443' - 6"
6437' - 6"
6425' - 0"
6444' - 6"
6438' - 6"
6426' - 0"
6444' - 6"
6438' - 6"
6438' - 6"
6426' - 0"
6415'-0"
Building G - F.F.L = 6419' - 9"
Max Building Height...............6448' - 0"
Existing Grade.......................6416' - 0"
Proposed Grade....................6419' - 0"
Max Roof Over Topo.................32' - 0"
Building I - F.F.L = 6416' - 6"
Ridge Elevation.....................6443' - 6"
Existing Grade.......................6412' - 0"
Proposed Grade....................6416' - 0"
Roof Over Topography..............31' - 6"
Building J - F.F.L = 6415' - 0"
Ridge Elevation.....................6443' - 6"
Existing Grade.......................6411' - 6"
Proposed Grade....................6414' - 6"
Roof Over Topography..............32' - 0"
6436' - 0"
Building N -  F.F.L = 6411' - 9"
Ridge Elevation....................6440' - 3"
Existing Grade......................6409' - 0"
Proposed Grade...................6411' - 3"
Roof Over Topography.............31' - 3"
6430' - 0"
6410'-0"
6410'
6415'
6415'
6415'
Building N -  F.F.L = 6411' - 9"
Ridge Elevation....................6440' - 3"
Existing Grade......................6409' - 0"
Proposed Grade...................6411' - 3"
Roof Over Topography.............31' - 3"
Building J - F.F.L = 6415' - 0"
Ridge Elevation.....................6443' - 6"
Existing Grade.......................6412' - 0"
Proposed Grade....................6414' - 6"
Roof Over Topography..............31' - 6"
Building I - F.F.L = 6416' - 6"
Ridge Elevation.....................6443' - 6"
Existing Grade.......................6412' - 3"
Proposed Grade....................6416' - 0"
Roof Over Topography..............31' - 3"
Building H - F.F.L = 6417' - 6"
Ridge Elevation.....................6444' - 6"
Existing Grade.......................6413' - 6"
Proposed Grade....................6417' - 0"
Roof Over Topography..............31' - 0"
Building V -  F.F.L = 6413' - 6"
Max Building Height..............6,441' - 4"
Existing Grade......................6,409' - 4"
Proposed Grade...................6,411' - 8"
Max Roof Over Topo.................32' - 0"
V
6410'-0"
6410'-0"
6405'-0"
6405'-0"
N V
32' Above Proposed Grade
Proposed Grade
32' Above Existing Grade
Existing Grade
32' Above Proposed Grade
Proposed Grade
V C G
32' Above Existing Grade
Existing Grade
N
32' Above Proposed Grade
Proposed Grade
JIH
32' Above Existing Grade
Existing Grade
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2025
4/16/2026
MPD - Rezone and CUP Package
A-103 Area 3 - ROT & Site Section
Key Plan
0 15 6030
N
Area 3 - Roof Over Topo - Buildings C, G, H, I, J, N and V
0 15 6030
Area 3 - Site Section 1
0 15 6030
Area 3 - Site Section 3
0 15 6030
Area 3 - Site Section 2
EXHIBIT A28
79
General Notes
1. Refer to Civil Drawings for Grading and Utility 
Information.
2. Refer to Landscape Drawings for Layout and Material 
Callout.
3. Refer to Sheet L-100 for Development Data, Parking 
Counts, and Site Connectivity.
4. Refer to A-400 Sheets for Enlarged Residential Units.
W
U
T
S
R
Q
P
O
N
V
C
D E
J
I
H
G
B A
M
L
K
F
N
D
F
B
E
A
A-104
1
6420'-0"
Building A - F.F.L = 6419' - 8"
Max Building Height...............6449' - 0"
Existing Grade.......................6417' - 0"
Proposed Grade....................6419' - 0"
Max Roof Over Topo.................32' - 0"
Building B - F.F.L = 6419' - 8"
Max Building Height...............6447' - 6"
Existing Grade.......................6415' - 6"
Proposed Grade....................6419' - 0"
Max Roof Over Topo.................32' - 0"
Building E - F.F.L = 6420' - 0"
Max Building Height..............6448' - 0"
Existing Grade......................6416' - 0"
Proposed Grade....................6420' - 0"
Max Roof Over Topo.................32' - 0"
Building F - F.F.L = 6420' - 0"
Max Building Height..............6449' - 3"
Existing Grade.......................6417' - 3"
Proposed Grade....................6420' - 0"
Max Roof Over Topo.................32' - 0"
Building D - F.F.L = 6419' - 9"
Max Building Height..............6447' - 6"
Existing Grade.......................6415' - 6"
Proposed Grade....................6419' - 4"
Max Roof Over Topo.................32' - 0"
6415'-0"
6415'
6420'
6415'
6420'
6415'
6420'
6420'
6410'-0"
32' Above Proposed Grade
Proposed Grade
B A
Existing Grade
32' Above Existing Grade
32' Above Proposed Grade
Proposed Grade
D E F
32' Above Existing Grade
Existing Grade
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2025
4/16/2026
MPD - Rezone and CUP Package
A-104 Area 4 - ROT & Site Section
Key Plan
0 15 6030
N
Area 4 - Roof Over Topo - Buildings A, B, D, E and F
0 15 6030
Area 4 - Site Section 1
0 15 6030
Area 4 - Site Section 2
EXHIBIT A29
80
Garage
505 SF
Garage
500 SF
Garage
505 SF
Unit 1
740 SF
Unit 3
855 SF
Unit 5
775 SF
A-401-A4.
A-401-A
A-401-A
A-401-A
3.
1.
2.
Garage
505 SF
Garage
500 SF
Garage
505 SF
Unit 2
740 SF
Unit 4
855 SF
Unit 6
775 SF
Patio/Deck
Patio/Deck
Patio/Deck
Patio/Deck
Motor 
Court
Unit 1
1040 SF
Unit 3
960 SF
Unit 5
1300 SF
A-401-A4.
A-401-A
A-401-A
A-401-A
3.
1.
2.
Unit 2
1040 SF
Unit 4
960 SF
Unit 6
1300 SF
A-401-A4.
A-401-A
A-401-A
A-401-A
3.
1.
2.
Horizontal Siding
Horizontal Siding
Vertical Siding
Vertical Siding
Horizontal Siding
Horizontal Siding
Vertical Siding
Horizontal Siding
Vertical Siding
Horizontal Siding
General Notes
1. Refer to Civil Drawings for Grading and Utility Information.
2. Refer to Landscape Drawings for Layout and Material Callout.
3. Refer to Sheet L-100 for Development Data, Parking Counts, 
and Site Connectivity.
Area Calc - 6 Plex Townhouse
Unit 1
Level 1.........740 SF
Level 2.......1040 SF
Subtotal....1740 SF
+Garage......505 SF
Unit 3
Level 1........855 SF
Level 2........960 SF
Subtotal....1815 SF
+Garage......500 SF
Unit 5
Level 1........775 SF
Level 2......1300 SF
Subtotal....2075 SF
+Garage......505 SF
TOTAL Residential SF..........................
+ TOTAL Garage SF..............................
Unit 2
Level 1........740 SF
Level 2........1040 SF
Subtotal....1740 SF
+Garage......505 SF
Unit 4
Level 1........855 SF
Level 2........960 SF
Subtotal....1815 SF
+Garage......500 SF
Unit 6
Level 1........775 SF
Level 2......1300 SF
Subtotal....2075 SF
+Garage......505 SF
................11260 SF
..................3020 SF
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2025
4/16/2026
MPD - Rezone and CUP Package
A-401-A Typical Sixplex Townhouse - Roof 1
0 8 3216
Level 1 Typical
0 8 3216
Level 2 Typical
0 8 3216
Roof Plan Typical
0 8 3216
Front Elevation Typical
0 8 3216
Side Elevation Typical
0 8 3216
Back Elevation Typical
0 8 3216
Interior Elevation Typical
EXHIBIT A30
81
Garage
505 SF
Garage
500 SF
Garage
505 SF
Unit 1
740 SF
Unit 3
855 SF
Unit 5
775 SF
Garage
505 SF
Garage
500 SF
Garage
505 SF
Unit 2
740 SF
Unit 4
855 SF
Unit 6
775 SF
Patio/Deck
Patio/Deck
Patio/Deck
Patio/Deck
Motor 
Court
A-401-B4.A-401-B 3.
A-401-B
1.
A-401-B
2.
Unit 1
1040 SF
Unit 3
960 SF
Unit 5
1300 SF
Unit 2
1040 SF
Unit 4
960 SF
Unit 6
1300 SF
A-401-B4.A-401-B 3.
A-401-B
1.
A-401-B
2.
A-401-B4.A-401-B 3.
A-401-B
1.
A-401-B
2.
Vertical Siding
Horizontal Siding
Vertical Siding
Horizontal Siding
Vertical Siding
Vertical Siding
Horizontal Siding
Horizontal Siding
Vertical Siding
Horizontal Siding
Vertical Siding
General Notes
1. Refer to Civil Drawings for Grading and Utility Information.
2. Refer to Landscape Drawings for Layout and Material Callout.
3. Refer to Sheet L-100 for Development Data, Parking Counts, 
and Site Connectivity.
Area Calc - 6 Plex Townhouse
Unit 1
Level 1.........740 SF
Level 2.......1040 SF
Subtotal....1740 SF
+Garage......505 SF
Unit 3
Level 1........855 SF
Level 2........960 SF
Subtotal....1815 SF
+Garage......500 SF
Unit 5
Level 1........775 SF
Level 2......1300 SF
Subtotal....2075 SF
+Garage......505 SF
TOTAL Residential SF..........................
+ TOTAL Garage SF..............................
Unit 2
Level 1........740 SF
Level 2........1040 SF
Subtotal....1740 SF
+Garage......505 SF
Unit 4
Level 1........855 SF
Level 2........960 SF
Subtotal....1815 SF
+Garage......500 SF
Unit 6
Level 1........775 SF
Level 2......1300 SF
Subtotal....2075 SF
+Garage......505 SF
................11260 SF
..................3020 SF
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2025
4/16/2026
MPD - Rezone and CUP Package
A-401-B Typical Sixplex Townhouse - Roof 2
0 8 3216
Level 1 Typical
0 8 3216
Level 2 Typical
0 8 3216
Roof Plan Typical
0 8 3216
Front Elevation Typical
0 8 3216
Side Elevation Typical
0 8 3216
Back Elevation Typical
0 8 3216
Interior Elevation Typical
EXHIBIT A31
82
Garage
505 SF
Garage
500 SF
Garage
505 SF
Unit 1
740 SF
Unit 3
855 SF
Unit 5
775 SF
Garage
505 SF
Garage
500 SF
Garage
505 SF
Unit 2
740 SF
Unit 4
855 SF
Unit 6
775 SF
Patio/Deck
Patio/Deck
Patio/Deck
Patio/Deck
Motor 
Court
A-401-C4.A-401-C 3.
A-401-C
1.
A-401-C
2.
Unit 1
1040 SF
Unit 3
960 SF
Unit 5
1300 SF
Unit 2
1040 SF
Unit 4
960 SF
Unit 6
1300 SF
A-401-C4.A-401-C 3.
A-401-C
1.
A-401-C
2.
A-401-C4.A-401-C 3.
A-401-C
1.
A-401-C
2.
Horizontal Siding
Horizontal Siding
Vertical Siding
Horizontal Siding
Horizontal Siding
Horizontal Siding
Horizontal Siding
Vertical Siding
Horizontal Siding
Horizontal Siding
Horizontal Siding
General Notes
1. Refer to Civil Drawings for Grading and Utility Information.
2. Refer to Landscape Drawings for Layout and Material Callout.
3. Refer to Sheet L-100 for Development Data, Parking Counts, 
and Site Connectivity.
Area Calc - 6 Plex Townhouse
Unit 1
Level 1.........740 SF
Level 2.......1040 SF
Subtotal....1740 SF
+Garage......505 SF
Unit 3
Level 1........855 SF
Level 2........960 SF
Subtotal....1815 SF
+Garage......500 SF
Unit 5
Level 1........775 SF
Level 2......1300 SF
Subtotal....2075 SF
+Garage......505 SF
TOTAL Residential SF..........................
+ TOTAL Garage SF..............................
Unit 2
Level 1........740 SF
Level 2........1040 SF
Subtotal....1740 SF
+Garage......505 SF
Unit 4
Level 1........855 SF
Level 2........960 SF
Subtotal....1815 SF
+Garage......500 SF
Unit 6
Level 1........775 SF
Level 2......1300 SF
Subtotal....2075 SF
+Garage......505 SF
................11260 SF
..................3020 SF
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2025
4/16/2026
MPD - Rezone and CUP Package
A-401-C Typical Sixplex Townhouse - Roof 3
0 8 3216
Level 1 Typical
0 8 3216
Level 2 Typical
0 8 3216
Roof Plan Typical
0 8 3216
Front Elevation Typical
0 8 3216
Side Elevation Typical
0 8 3216
Back Elevation Typical
0 8 3216
Interior Elevation Typical
EXHIBIT A32
83
A-4024A-402
A-402
5
6 7
A-402
Fire Riser
70 SF
Unit 4
700 SF
(650 Net)
Unit 3
700 SF
(650 Net)
Unit 2
700 SF
(650 Net)
Unit 1
700 SF
(650 Net)
A-4024A-402
A-402
5
6 7
A-402
Storage
170 SF
Unit 8
700 SF
(650 Net)
Unit 7
700 SF
(650 Net)
Unit 6
700 SF
(650 Net)
Unit 5
700 SF
(650 Net)
A-4024A-402
A-402
5
6 7
A-402
EIFS
Horizontal Siding
Vertical Siding
Horizontal Siding
EIFS
Shingled Roof
EIFS
Vertical Siding
Horizontal Siding
EIFS
Shingled Roof
General Notes
1. Refer to Civil Drawings for Grading and Utility Information.
2. Refer to Landscape Drawings for Layout and Material Callout.
3. Refer to Sheet L-100 for Development Data, Parking Counts, 
and Site Connectivity.
Area Calc - 8 Plex (One Bed)
One Bedroom Unit...................700 SF
(650 Net Per Ordinance 10-5-4)
                                                       x8
Subtotal................................ 5600 SF
Fire Riser...................................70 SF
Storage....................................170 SF
Subtotal..................................240 SF
                                                              
TOTAL SF.............................5840 SF
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2025
4/16/2026
MPD - Rezone and CUP Package
A-402 Typical Eightplex One Bedroom Units
0 8 3216
Level 1 Typical
0 8 3216
Level 2 Typical
0 8 3216
Roof Plan Typical
0 8 3216
Front Elevation Typical
0 8 3216
Side Elevation Typical
0 8 3216
Back Elevation Typical
0 8 3216
Interior Elevation Typical
EXHIBIT A33
84
A-4034
A-403
5
A-403 6
A-403
7
Unit 1
985 SF
(925 Net)
Fire Riser
70 SF
Unit 3
985 SF
(925 Net)
Unit 2
985 SF
(925 Net)
Unit 4
985 SF
(925 Net)
A-4034
A-403
5
A-403 6
A-403
7
Storage
170 SF
Unit 7
924 SF
Unit 5
924 SF
Unit 8
924 SF
Unit 6
924 SF
A-4034
A-403
5
A-403 6
A-403
7
EIFS
Horizontal Siding
Shingled Roof
EIFS
Horizontal Siding
Vertical Siding
EIFS
Horizontal Siding
Shingled Roof
EIFS
Horizontal Siding
Vertical Siding
General Notes
1. Refer to Civil Drawings for Grading and Utility Information.
2. Refer to Landscape Drawings for Layout and Material Callout.
3. Refer to Sheet L-100 for Development Data, Parking Counts, 
and Site Connectivity.
Area Calc - 8 Plex (2 Bed)
One Bedroom Unit...................985 SF
                                                        x8
Subtotal...............................7,880 SF
Fire Riser...................................70 SF
Storage....................................170 SF
Subtotal..................................240 SF
                                                            
TOTAL SF.............................8120 SF
COPYRIGHT: Elliott Workgroup LLC 2025
4/16/2026
MPD - Rezone and CUP Package
A-403 Typical Eightplex Two Bedroom Units
0 8 3216
Level 1 Typical
0 8 3216
Level 2 Typical
0 8 3216
Roof Plan Typical
0 8 3216
Front Elevation Typical
0 8 3216
Interior Elevation Typical
0 8 3216
Back Elevation Typical
0 8 3216
Side Elevation Typical
EXHIBIT A34
85
EXHIBIT B
86
EXHIBIT B
87
CURVE TABLE
CURVE #
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
C6
C7
C8
C9
C10
C11
C12
C13
LENGTH
199.19'
426.53'
112.24'
251.19'
309.82'
334.94'
62.57'
57.95'
170.77'
74.76'
34.78'
26.76'
27.79'
RADIUS
904.08'
3500.00'
125.00'
711.38'
547.46'
884.93'
125.00'
75.00'
904.08'
555.44'
46.00'
78.50'
101.50'
CH BEARING
N84°00'42"E
S15°47'28"E
S55°38'39"W
S26°46'54"W
S32°08'26"W
S26°46'16"W
N44°26'26"E
N52°14'17"E
S83°06'39"W
N14°41'01"W
N03°07'12"E
N34°32'41"E
N36°28'04"E
CH LENGTH
198.79'
426.27'
108.51'
249.89'
305.70'
332.94'
61.92'
56.52'
170.51'
74.70'
33.96'
26.63'
27.70'
Δ ANGLE
12°37'25"
6°58'57"
51°26'49"
20°13'53"
32°25'29"
21°41'09"
28°40'48"
44°16'06"
10°49'20"
7°42'41"
43°19'08"
19°31'50"
15°41'05"
CURVE TABLE
CURVE #
C14
C15
C16
C17
C18
C19
C20
C21
C22
C23
C24
C25
LENGTH
59.16'
18.45'
34.79'
77.54'
48.58'
50.82'
11.84'
158.05'
67.54'
28.42'
44.70'
23.15'
RADIUS
78.50'
10.00'
75.00'
3081.50'
62.00'
58.50'
178.50'
460.50'
125.00'
904.08'
125.00'
75.00'
CH BEARING
N50°12'56"E
S52°31'38"E
S43°23'41"W
N23°54'45"W
S78°30'07"E
S77°23'34"E
S48°35'55"E
S36°51'59"E
S45°23'57"W
S89°25'21"W
N71°07'21"E
S65°31'44"W
CH LENGTH
57.77'
15.94'
34.48'
77.54'
47.35'
49.24'
11.83'
157.28'
66.72'
28.42'
44.46'
23.06'
Δ ANGLE
43°10'48"
105°42'04"
26°34'53"
1°26'30"
44°53'52"
49°46'28"
3°47'58"
19°39'54"
30°57'25"
1°48'05"
20°29'24"
17°41'13"
(PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY)
52.03'
40.00 FT RAD. TURNAROUND
ACCESS EASEMENT
ENTRY NO. 997229
Bk. 2244 Pg. 766
(PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY)
r/w
BLOCK 4
LOT 13
HOKKY CHANDIYANA AND
INEKE TULANGOW
TAX ID. SL-I-4-13
ENTRY NO. 1050737
C17
C16
LOT A
AMENDED
23,549 SQ. FT.
0.541 ACRES
LOT A
AMENDED
41,057 SQ. FT.
0.943 ACRE
NATHAN AND
NATALYA COOMBS
TAX ID. SL-I-4-3
ENTRY NO. 1175356
MOUNTAIN TOWN LANDS, LLC
TAX ID. SL-I-2-44
ENTRY NO. 1190055
SPEEDO 45 LLC
TAX ID. SL-I-2-45
ENTRY NO. 1065642
r/w
BLOCK 4
LOT 3
BLOCK 4
LOT 4
BLOCK 4
LOT 5
BLOCK 4
LOT 6
BLOCK 4
LOT 7
BLOCK 4
LOT 8
BLOCK 4
LOT 9
BLOCK 4
LOT 10
BLOCK 4
LOT 11
BLOCK 4
LOT 12
BLOCK 4
LOT 14
FENCE POST AT
BOUNDARY CORNER
BLOCK 4
LOT 15
PART OF BLOCK 4
LOT 16
JENNIFER SPACEK
AND ROBERT SPACEK
TAX ID. SL-I-4-4
ENTRY NO. 1205054
JOHN ORDEAN AND
KELLY ORDEAN
TAX ID. SL-I-4-6
ENTRY NO. 1039445
MICHELLE L. AZZARO
TAX ID. SL-I-4-7
ENTRY NO. 1025618
EAST CREEK RANCH
HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION INC.
TAX ID. SL-I-4-8
ENTRY NO. 1090246
PAUL S HENRY
TAX ID. SL-I-4-9
ENTRY NO. 1052983
DEVIN C MAXWELL AND
KATIE PORTER MAXWELL
TAX ID. SL-I-4-10
ENTRY NO. 1191153
JASON P HARIG AND
REBECCA M HARIG
TAX ID. SL-I-4-11
ENTRY NO. 1071731
MATTHEW D ACTON
TAX ID. SL-I-4-12
ENTRY NO. 1065438
HENRY M ADAMS AND
CASSIDY ADAMS
TAX ID. SL-I-4-14
ENTRY NO. 1094000
BONNY LEIGH SMITH
TAX ID. SL-I-4-15
ENTRY NO. 1207386
GARY D ROGERS
TAX ID. SL-I-4-16
ENTRY NO. 1103282
NANGA BEAR LANE
PUBLIC ROAD RIGHT OF WAY
(WIDTH VARIES)
LOT A
AMENDED
510,924 SQ. FT.
11.729 ACRES
BLOCK 2
LOT 44
BLOCK 2
LOT 45
POINT OF
BEGINNING
INTERSTATE - 80
PROJECT NUMBER I-80-4(31)141
50.00'
HIGHWAY RIGHT OF WAY AND
NO-ACCESS LINE 20.00 FT WIDE
UTILITY EASEMENT
ENTRY NO. 111682
Bk. M-27 Pg. 597
ENTRY NO. 105546
Bk. M-12 Pg. 113
OVERALL BOUNDARY
660,171 SQ. FT.
15.155 ACRES
10.00' P.U.E.
SEE NOTE 2
FND RWC
BENCHMARK ENG
FOUND RWC
AWA ENG
FOUND RWC
AWA ENG
FOUND RWC
AWA ENG
FOUND RWC
AWA ENG
FOUND RWC
AWA ENG
FOUND UDOT
RIGHT OF WAY
MARKER
FOUND UDOT
RIGHT OF WAY
MARKER
FOUND RWC
ELEMENT
FOUND RWC
J. HARMON
FOUND RWC
ILLEGIBLE
FOUND RWC MCNEIL
0.41' SE'LY OF ROW LINE
FOUND RWC MCNEIL
0.13' SE'LY OF ROW LINE
FOUND RWC MCNEIL
0.35' SE'LY OF ROW LINE
50.00 FT WIDE EASEMENT
AND RIGHT-OF-WAY
ENTRY NO. 113713
Bk. M-32 Pg. 456
FOUND UDOT
RIGHT OF WAY
MARKER
20.00'
30.00'
SET NAIL AND WASHER 30.00'
10.00'
EASEMENT(TYPICAL)
NOTE 3
NOTE 3
10.00' P.U.E.
10.00'
P.U.E.
SET RWC AT
RIGHT OF WAY
SILVER CREEK ESTATES UNIT 'I'
ENTRY NO. 100552
L4
L5
C4
C5
S15°55'41"W  271.85'
C6
L6 N00°19'24"E  1323.84'
S89°40'36"E  318.42'
N00°19'24"E  250.00'
L1
C1
L2
C2
L3
S00°19'24"W  198.82'
C15
N74°37'20"E  149.50'
L11
C14
C13
C12
C11
C10
L10
C9
L12
C18
L13
L14
L15
C19
C20
C21
C22
C24
99.91'
C23
35.67'
ROAD
DEDICATION
83,467 SQ. FT.
1.916 ACRES
41.73'
SUMMIT COUNTY
TAX ID. SL-I-8-SC-X
ENTRY NO. 1178897
BLOCK 8
LOT 1
ADB ENTERPRISES LC
TAX ID. SL-I-8-1
ENTRY NO. 577083
BLOCK 7
LOT 14
CONWAY FAMILY
REVOCABLE TRUST
TAX ID. SL-I-7-14
ENTRY NO. 793297
BLOCK 7
LOT 1
BLOCK 2
LOT 43
BLOCK 2
LOT 42
BLOCK 2
LOT 41
BLOCK 2
LOT 40
BLOCK 2
LOT 39
BLOCK 2
LOT 38
BLOCK 2
LOT 37
BLOCK 2
LOT 36
BLOCK 2
LOT 35
BLOCK 2
LOT 34
BLOCK 2
LOT 33
POINT OF
BEGINNING
354.09'
EARL STREET
(PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY)
NOT DEDICATED
EARL STREET
(PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY)DIVISION STREET
DEDICATED HEREONEARL STREET
(PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY)
DEDICATED HEREONSILVER CREEK ROAD
UDOT
TAX ID. SL-I-9-F-X
ENTRY NO. 558156
(UDOT PROJECT NO. IM-80-4(81)148)
WITH ABUTTER'S CLAUSE TO THE
CENTER OF EXISTING RIGHT OF WAY
SEE DETAIL A
ON SHEET 2
C3
C25
L7
C8
L8L9
S58°53'30"W  281.67'
C7
VACATED
30.00' ROADWAY
EASEMENT
SEE NOTE 1
20.00 FT WIDE
UTILITY EASEMENT
ENTRY NO. 111682
Bk. M-27 Pg. 597
ENTRY NO. 105546
Bk. M-12 Pg. 113
50.00 FT WIDE EASEMENT
AND RIGHT-OF-WAY
ENTRY NO. 113713
Bk. M-32 Pg. 456
20.00 FT WIDE WASTEWATER
PIPELINE EASEMENT
ENTRY NO. 997229
Bk. 2244 Pg. 766
(WIDTH VARIES)
60.00'60.00'
60.00'
97.57'
119.57'
(WIDTH VARIES)
10.00'P.U.E.
10.00'P.U.E.
LINE TABLE
LINE #
L1
L2
L3
L4
L5
L6
L7
L8
BEARING
S89°40'36"E
N77°41'59"E
S81°21'52"W
S29°54'52"W
S58°37'00"W
N43°01'26"W
N30°06'03"E
S16°19'36"E
LENGTH
31.58'
143.09'
57.72'
151.95'
46.87'
73.50'
288.93'
40.34'
LINE TABLE
LINE #
L9
L10
L11
L12
L13
L14
L15
BEARING
S01°14'03"W
S77°41'59"W
N15°22'40"W
N01°14'03"E
N79°02'56"E
N74°37'20"E
S15°22'40"E
LENGTH
144.58'
43.18'
11.59'
102.85'
106.05'
48.56'
11.59'
File Path:G:\Shared drives\2020 Projects\20-137 Summit County - Silver Creek Connector\Silver Creek Estates Unit I Lot A Amended\09_Data\Survey\20137_Silver Creek Estates Unit I Amending Lot A_20260506.dwg          May 07, 2026 - 9:09am
SILVER CREEK ESTATES UNIT 'I'
AMENDMENT TO LOT A
LOCATED IN ALL QUARTERS OF SECTION 16, TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 4 EAST,
SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN
050'100'
POINT OF BEGINNING
BASIS OF BEARINGS.89°20'30"E. 2,662.78'
(2,662.78' BY RECORD)
SOUTHEAST CORNER SECTION 16
TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 4 EAST
SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN
FOUND 3.25" ALUMINUM CAP
SUMMIT COUNTY
178.38'
(178.40' BY RECORD)
BOUNDARY TIE
POINT OF BEGINNING
194.60'
(194.59' BY RECORD)
2,289.80'
(2,289.76' BY RECORD)
NORTH  2,181.34'
(2,181.22' BY RECORD)
NORTH    2,926.07'
(2,925.95' BY RECORD)
SUMMIT COUNTY RECORDER
FILED FOR RECORD AND RECORDED
AS ENTRY NUMBER: _______________
AT THE REQUEST OF:
_________________________________
THIS ___ DAY OF __________________
__________, AT ___________
IN BOOK ________________ OF PLATS,
PAGE____________. FEE ___________.
_________________________________
SUMMIT COUNTY RECORDER
PROJECT NO: 20-137
DESIGNED BY: DJA
DRAWN BY:DJA
CHECKED BY:         KWT
DATE:          03/11/2026
1
2
SHEET
OF
WALL CONSULTANT GROUP
2139 SOUTH 1260 WEST
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84119
PHONE: 801-449-1173
SUMMIT COUNTY COUNCIL
PRESENTED TO THE SUMMIT COUNTY COUNCIL
THIS _______ DAY OF ______________________, 20____.
AT WHICH TIME THIS PLAT WAS APPROVED AND ACCEPTED.
BY: ____________________________________________________
SUMMIT COUNTY COUNCIL CHAIR
APPROVAL AS TO FORM
APPROVED AS TO FORM
 THIS ______DAY OF ____________________, 20____.
BY:___________________________________________
SUMMIT COUNTY ATTORNEY
SUMMIT COUNTY TREASURER
APPROVED AND ACCEPTED
 THIS ______DAY OF ____________________, 20____.
BY:___________________________________________
SUMMIT COUNTY TREASURER
SOUTH QUARTER CORNER SECTION 16
TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 4 EAST
SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN
FOUND 2" ALUMINUM CAP
CORNERSTONE LS7600
SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE
I, DEVRON J. ANDERSEN, DO HEREBY CERTIFY THAT I AM A LICENSED PROFESSIONAL LAND
SURVEYOR IN THE STATE OF UTAH, HOLDING LICENSE NUMBER 7897281 IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE PROFESSIONAL ENGINEERS AND LAND SURVEYORS ACT, TITLE 58, CHAPTER 22, OF UTAH
CODE; I FURTHER CERTIFY THAT BY AUTHORITY OF THE OWNERS, I HAVE COMPLETED A
SURVEY OF THE PROPERTY DESCRIBED ON THIS PLAT IN ACCORDANCE WITH TITLE 17,
CHAPTER 73, SECTION 504, OF UTAH CODE, HAVE VERIFIED ALL MEASUREMENTS, AND HAVE
HEREBY SUBDIVIDED SAID PROPERTY INTO PARCELS AND STREETS, TOGETHER WITH
EASEMENTS, HEREAFTER TO BE KNOWN AS
SILVER CREEK ESTATES UNIT 'I'
AMENDMENT TO BLOCK 9, LOT A
OWNER'S DEDICATION AND CONSENT TO RECORD
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS THAT THE UNDERSIGNED ARE THE OWNERS OF THE
HEREON DESCRIBED TRACT OF LAND, AND HEREBY CAUSE THE SAME TO BE DIVIDED INTO
LOTS, STREETS, AND PARCELS TOGETHER WITH EASEMENTS AS SET FORTH TO BE
HEREAFTER KNOWN AS
SILVER CREEK ESTATES UNIT 'I'
AMENDMENT TO LOT A
AND DO HEREBY DEDICATE TO SUMMIT COUNTY, FOR THE PERPETUAL USE OF THE PUBLIC,
ALL ROADS, PARCELS, EASEMENTS, AND OTHER AREAS SHOWN ON THIS PLAT AS INTENDED
FOR PUBLIC USE. THE UNDERSIGNED OWNER HEREBY CONVEYS TO ANY AND ALL PUBLIC
UTILITY COMPANIES A PERPETUAL, NONEXCLUSIVE EASEMENT OVER THE PUBLIC UTILITY
EASEMENTS SHOWN ON THIS PLAT, THE SAME TO BE USED FOR THE INSTALLATION,
MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION OF UTILITY LINES AND FACILITIES AS AUTHORIZED BY SUMMIT
COUNTY.
DATED THIS _________ DAY OF_______________ 20____.
BY:_____________________________________________
CPD SILVER CREEK LLCPRINT NAME: ____________________________________
AN OHIO LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY
ITS:_____________________________________________
BY:_____________________________________________
SUMMIT COUNTY          PRINT NAME: ____________________________________
SERVICE AREA NO. 3
ITS:_____________________________________________
BY: _____________________________________________
SUMMIT COUNTYPRINT NAME: ____________________________________
ITS: _____________________________________________
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
STATE OF _______________ )
:SS.
COUNTY OF _____________ )
ON THIS ________ DAY OF __________________, IN THE YEAR ________, BEFORE ME, THE
UNDERSIGNED NOTARY PUBLIC, PERSONALLY APPEARED ________________________________,
THE SIGNER OF THE ABOVE OWNER'S DEDICATION, WHO DULY ACKNOWLEDGED TO ME THEY
SIGNED IT FREELY AND VOLUNTARILY AND FOR THE PURPOSES THEREIN MENTIONED.
_____________________________________________
A NOTARY PUBLIC
PRINT NAME:
COMMISSION:
MY COMMISSION EXPIRES:SEAL
FOR REVIEWDO NOT RECORD
 03/11/2026
PROFESSIONAL
LAND
SURVEYOR
STATE
O
F
UTAH
No. 7897281
Devron J.
Andersen
Electronic Seal
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
STATE OF _______________ )
:SS.
COUNTY OF _____________ )
ON THIS ________ DAY OF __________________, IN THE YEAR ________, BEFORE ME, THE
UNDERSIGNED NOTARY PUBLIC, PERSONALLY APPEARED ________________________________,
THE SIGNER OF THE ABOVE OWNER'S DEDICATION, WHO DULY ACKNOWLEDGED TO ME THEY
SIGNED IT FREELY AND VOLUNTARILY AND FOR THE PURPOSES THEREIN MENTIONED.
_____________________________________________
A NOTARY PUBLIC
PRINT NAME:
COMMISSION:
MY COMMISSION EXPIRES:SEAL
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
STATE OF _______________ )
:SS.
COUNTY OF _____________ )
ON THIS ________ DAY OF __________________, IN THE YEAR ________, BEFORE ME, THE
UNDERSIGNED NOTARY PUBLIC, PERSONALLY APPEARED ________________________________,
THE SIGNER OF THE ABOVE OWNER'S DEDICATION, WHO DULY ACKNOWLEDGED TO ME THEY
SIGNED IT FREELY AND VOLUNTARILY AND FOR THE PURPOSES THEREIN MENTIONED.
_____________________________________________
A NOTARY PUBLIC
PRINT NAME:
COMMISSION:
MY COMMISSION EXPIRES:SEAL
PARCEL OWNER:
CPD SILVER CREEK LLC,
SUMMIT COUNTY
SERVICE AREA NO. 3,
& SUMMIT COUNTY
ADJOINING PARCEL LINE
RIGHT OF WAY LINE
CENTER LINE
RIGHT OF WAY DEDICATED HEREON
PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENTP.U.E.
EASEMENT LINE
r/w
LEGEND
FOUND SECTION CORNER
BOUNDARY LINE
SECTION LINE
FOUND RIGHT OF WAY MONUMENT
SET REBAR WITH CAP STAMPED "WCG"
UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED
FOUND REBAR WITH CAP AS NOTED
REBAR WITH CAPRWC
SUMMIT COUNTY ENGINEER
APPROVED AND ACCEPTED BY THE SUMMIT
COUNTY ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
 THIS ______DAY OF ____________________, 20____.
BY: ___________________________________________
SUMMIT COUNTY ENGINEER
PUBLIC SAFETY
ANSWERING POINT APPROVAL
APPROVED
 THIS ______DAY OF ____________________, 20____.
BY: ___________________________________________
SUMMIT COUNTY GIS COORDINATOR
PUBLIC ROAD(S) & RIGHTS OF
WAY ACCEPTANCE
PUBLIC ROAD(S) & RIGHTS OF WAY, AS ARE
SPECIFICALLY IDENTIFIED ON THE PLAT, ARE
HEREBY ACCEPTED BY THE SUMMIT COUNTY
HIGHWAY AUTHORITY,
 THIS ______DAY OF ____________________, 20____.
BY: ___________________________________________
SUMMIT COUNTY COUNCIL CHAIR, FOR THE SUMMIT
COUNTY HIGHWAY AUTHORITY
SCALE: 1"=100'
EXHIBIT C
EXHIBIT C1
88
FOUND UDOT RIGHT OF
WAY MARKER (NO CAP)
S01°14'03"W 13.26' FROM
BOUNDARY CORNER
FOUND UDOT RIGHT OF
WAY MARKER (NO CAP)
0.62' SOUTHEASTERLY
FROM BOUNDARY LINE
UDOT
TAX ID. SL-I-9-F-X
ENTRY NO. 558156
(UDOT PROJECT NO. IM-80-4(81)148)
WITH ABUTTER'S CLAUSE TO THE
CENTER OF EXISTING RIGHT OF WAY
ROAD
DEDICATION
1,174 SQ. FT.
0.027 ACRES
INTERSTATE - 80
PROJECT NUMBER I-80-4(31)141
LOT A
AMENDED
23,549 SQ. FT.
0.541 ACRES
102.85'
L=77.54, R=3081.50
CH=S23° 54' 45"E 77.54'
L=34.79, R=75.00
CH=N43° 23' 41"E 34.48'
N30°06'03"E  288.93'
r/w r/w r/w
r/w
r/w r/w
r/w
S01°14'03"W  144.58'
L=57.95, R=75.00
CH=N52° 14' 17"E 56.52'
41.73'
S16°19'36"E  40.34'
L=23.15, R=75.00
CH=N65° 31' 44"E 23.06'
10.00' P.U.E.
PROJECT SITE
File Path:G:\Shared drives\2020 Projects\20-137 Summit County - Silver Creek Connector\Silver Creek Estates Unit I Lot A Amended\09_Data\Survey\20137_Silver Creek Estates Unit I Amending Lot A_20260506.dwg          May 07, 2026 - 9:07am
SUMMIT COUNTY RECORDER
WALL CONSULTANT GROUP
2139 SOUTH 1260 WEST
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84119
PHONE: 801-449-1173
2
2
SHEET
OF
05'10'
SCALE: 1"=10'
SURVEY NARRATIVE
THE PURPOSE OF THIS SURVEY IS TO AMEND LOT A, SILVER CREEK ESTATES UNIT I AMENDING BLOCK 1, PARCEL A, BLOCK 4, LOTS 1,2 & 16-REM, AND A
PORTION OF BLOCK 9, RECORDED AS ENTRY NUMBER 1231208 IN THE OFFICE OF THE SUMMIT COUNTY RECORDER, TO INCLUDE ADDITIONAL PARCELS WEST
OF THE CENTERLINE OF SILVER CREEK ROAD AND SOUTH OF THE CENTERLINE OF EARL STREET, AND TO DEFINE AND DEDICATE FOR PUBLIC USE A NEW
RIGHT OF WAY FOR SILVER CREEK ROAD AND EARL STREET WITHIN THE BOUNDARY OF THIS SUBDIVISION.
PER THE DIRECTION OF THE OWNERS NO ATTEMPT WAS MADE BY THIS SURVEY TO VERIFY OR RESOLVE CONFLICTING OPINIONS OF FEE TITLE ELEMENTS AS
SHOWN IN RECORD OF SURVEY S0011532 AND RECORD OF SURVEY S0011737. THIS SURVEY IS STRICTLY AN AMENDMENT TO LOT A AS RECORDED IN ENTRY
NUMBER 1231208 IN THE OFFICE OF THE SUMMIT COUNTY RECORDER.
THE GROUND  LOCATION  OF LOT A AND THE  OTHER  VARIOUS  PARCELS  INCLUDED  IN THIS  SUBDIVISION  WERE  DEFINED  BY HOLDING  MULTIPLE
FOUND  PROPERTY  CORNERS  THROUGHOUT  BLOCK  2, 3, AND 4 OF SILVER CREEK ESTATES UNIT 'I' AS NOTED. THE GROUND  LOCATION  OF UDOT
PARCELS  WERE  DEFINED  BY FOUND  RIGHT  OF WAY  MARKERS  AS NOTED.  THE BASIS OF BEARING FOR THIS SURVEY IS SOUTH 89°20'30" EAST 2,662.78
FEET BETWEEN THE SOUTH QUARTER CORNER AND THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF SECTION 16, TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 4 EAST, SALT LAKE BASE AND
MERIDIAN.
THIS SURVEY RELIED ON THE FOLLOWING DOCUMENTS FOR THE BOUNDARY RETRACEMENT:
·FILED RECORD OF SURVEY, NUMBER S0011532
·CONVEYING DOCUMENTS, ENTRY NUMBER 1194356, 1194357, 114792, 1194358, 1166688, AND 1175859
·SUBDIVISION PLAT, SILVER CREEK ESTATES UNIT 'I' AMENDING BLOCK 1, PARCEL A, BLOCK 4, LOTS1, 2 &16-REM, AND A PORTION OF BLOCK 9, ENTRY
NUMBER 1231208
·SUBDIVISION PLAT, SILVER CREEK ESTATES UNIT 'I', ENTRY NUMBER 100552
·ADJOINING PROPERTY DESCRIPTIONS ACCORDING TO PUBLIC RECORDS
BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION
OVERALL BOUNDARY MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:
A PARCEL OF LAND SITUATE IN THE NORTHWEST QUARTER, NORTHEAST QUARTER, SOUTHEAST
QUARTER, AND SOUTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 16, TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 4 EAST, SALT
LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN. THE BOUNDARIES OF SAID TRACT OF LAND ARE MORE PARTICULARLY
DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS: BEGINNING AT THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF LOT 3, BLOCK 4, SILVER CREEK
ESTATES UNIT I, RECORDED AS ENTRY NUMBER 100552 IN THE OFFICE OF THE SUMMIT COUNTY
RECORDER, SAID CORNER BEING ON THE CENTER LINE OF EARL STREET, SAID CORNER IS ALSO 178.38
FEET SOUTH 89°20'30" EAST ALONG THE SECTION LINE AND 2,926.07 FEET NORTH FROM THE SOUTH
QUARTER CORNER OF SAID SECTION 16 (BASIS OF BEARING BEING SOUTH 89°20'30" EAST 2,662.78
FEET FROM THE SOUTH QUARTER CORNER TO THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF SECTION 16); RUNNING
THENCE ALONG THE CENTER OF EARL STREET THE FOLLOWING THREE (3) COURSES: 1) SOUTH
89°40'36" EAST 31.58 FEET; 2) THENCE EASTERLY 199.19 FEET (199.22' BY RECORD ENTRY NUMBER
1231208) ALONG THE ARC OF A 904.08 FOOT RADIUS TANGENT CURVE TO THE LEFT (NOTE: CHORD TO
SAID CURVE BEARS NORTH 84°00'42” EAST 198.79 FEET); AND 3) THENCE NORTH 77°41'59" EAST
143.09 FEET TO THE CENTER OF SILVER CREEK ROAD; THENCE ALONG THE CENTER OF SILVER CREEK
ROAD SOUTHERLY 426.53 FEET ALONG THE ARC OF A 3,500 FOOT RADIUS NON-TANGENT CURVE TO
THE LEFT (NOTE: CHORD TO SAID CURVE BEARS SOUTH 15°47'28" EAST 426.27 FEET) TO THE
NORTHERLY BOUNDARY OF UDOT PROJECT NUMBER IM-80-4(81)148, PARCEL DESCRIPTIONS
RECORDED AS ENTRY NUMBER 558156 IN THE OFFICE OF THE SUMMIT COUNTY RECORDER; THENCE
ALONG SAID UDOT PARCEL SOUTH 81°21'52" WEST 57.72 FEET (S.81°21'42"W. BY RECORD ENTRY
NUMBER 558156); THENCE SOUTHWESTERLY 112.24 FEET ALONG THE ARC OF A 125.00 FOOT RADIUS
(124.51' RADIUS BY RECORD ENTRY NUMBER 1231208) NON-TANGENT CURVE TO THE LEFT, (NOTE:
CHORD TO SAID CURVE BEARS SOUTH 55°38'39" WEST 108.51 FEET) TO A NON-TANGENT LINE;
THENCE SOUTH 29°54'52" WEST 151.95 FEET; THENCE SOUTH 58°37'00" WEST 46.87 FEET, TO A
NON-TANGENT CURVE; THENCE SOUTHWESTERLY 251.19 FEET ALONG THE ARC OF A 711.38 FOOT
RADIUS NON-TANGENT CURVE TO THE LEFT, (NOTE: CHORD TO SAID CURVE BEARS SOUTH 26°46'54"
WEST 249.89 FEET) TO THE WESTERLY BOUNDARY OF UDOT RIGHT OF WAY, PROJECT NUMBER
I-80-4(31)141; THENCE ALONG SAID UDOT RIGHT OF WAY AND NO-ACCESS LINE OF SAID PROJECT
NUMBER I-80-4(31)141 THE FOLLOWING THREE (3) COURSES: 1) SOUTHWESTERLY 309.82 FEET ALONG
THE ARC OF A 547.46 FOOT RADIUS NON-TANGENT CURVE TO THE LEFT, (NOTE: CHORD TO SAID
CURVE BEARS SOUTH 32°08'26" WEST 305.70 FEET) TO A NON-TANGENT LINE; 2) THENCE SOUTH
15°55'41" WEST 271.85 FEET; 3) THENCE SOUTHWESTERLY 334.94 FEET ALONG THE ARC OF A 884.93
FOOT RADIUS CURVE TO THE RIGHT, (NOTE: CHORD TO SAID CURVE BEARS SOUTH 26°46'16" WEST
332.94 FEET) TO A NON-TANGENT LINE; THENCE NORTH 43°01'26" WEST 73.50 FEET TO THE
SOUTHEAST CORNER OF LOT 15, BLOCK 4, SILVER CREEK ESTATES UNIT I; THENCE ALONG THE
BOUNDARY OF BLOCK 4 THE FOLLOWING TWO (2) COURSES: 1) THENCE NORTH 00°19'24" EAST
1,323.84 FEET; 2) THENCE SOUTH 89°40'36" EAST 318.42 FEET TO THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF LOT 3,
BLOCK 4, SILVER CREEK ESTATES UNIT I; THENCE NORTH 00°19'24" EAST 250.00 FEET ALONG THE EAST
LINE OF SAID LOT 3 TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.
THE ABOVE DESCRIBED TRACT OF LAND CONTAINS 635,448 SQUARE FEET OR 14.5879 ACRES IN AREA.
AND:
A PARCEL OF LAND SITUATE IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 16, TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH,
RANGE 4 EAST, SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN. THE BOUNDARIES OF SAID TRACT OF LAND ARE MORE
PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS: BEGINNING AT A POINT BEING 372.97 FEET SOUTH 89°20'30"
EAST ALONG THE SECTION LINE AND 2,181.34 FEET NORTH FROM THE SOUTH QUARTER CORNER OF
SAID SECTION 16 (BASIS OF BEARING BEING SOUTH 89°20'30" EAST 2,662.78 FEET FROM THE SOUTH
QUARTER CORNER TO THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF SECTION 16); RUNNING THENCE NORTHEASTERLY
62.57 FEET ALONG THE ARC OF A 125.00 FOOT RADIUS CURVE TO THE LEFT, (NOTE: CHORD TO SAID
CURVE BEARS NORTH 44°26'26” EAST 61.92 FEET) TO A NON-TANGENT LINE; THENCE NORTH
30°06'03" EAST 288.93 FEET; THENCE NORTHEASTERLY 57.95 FEET ALONG THE ARC OF A 75.00 FOOT
RADIUS NON-TANGENT CURVE TO THE RIGHT, (NOTE: CHORD TO SAID CURVE BEARS
NORTH 52°14'17” EAST 56.52 FEET) TO THE WESTERLY BOUNDARY OF UDOT RIGHT OF WAY, PROJECT
NUMBER I-80-4(31)141, PARCEL DESCRIPTIONS RECORDED AS ENTRY NUMBER 124586 IN THE OFFICE
OF THE SUMMIT COUNTY RECORDER; THENCE SOUTH 16°19'36" EAST 40.34 FEET ALONG SAID UDOT
RIGHT OF WAY; TO THE WESTERLY BOUNDARY OF UDOT RIGHT OF WAY, PROJECT NUMBER
I-80-4(31)141, PARCEL DESCRIPTIONS RECORDED AS ENTRY NUMBER 111682 IN THE OFFICE OF THE
SUMMIT COUNTY RECORDER; THENCE ALONG SAID UDOT RIGHT OF WAY AND NO-ACCESS LINE OF
SAID PROJECT NUMBER I-80-4(31)141 THE FOLLOWING TWO (2) COURSES: 1) SOUTH 01°14'03" WEST
144.58 FEET; 2) THENCE SOUTH 58°53'30" WEST 281.67 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.
THE ABOVE DESCRIBED TRACT OF LAND CONTAINS 24,723 SQUARE FEET OR 0.5676 ACRES IN AREA.
CONTAINING 660,171 SQUARE FEET OR 15.1554 ACRES OVERALL.
NOTES
1. THE ORIGINAL SILVER CREEK ESTATES PLAT I DEFINES A 30.00' HALF WIDTH EASEMENT
FOR ROADWAY PURPOSES EACH SIDE OF THE CENTER LINE OF EARL STREET AND A
50.00' HALF WIDTH EASEMENT ALONG THE CENTER LINE OF SILVER CREEK ROAD. THOSE
ROADWAY EASEMENTS WITHIN THE BOUNDARY OF THIS PLAT WILL BE HEREBY VACATED
AND REPLACED WITH THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY DEDICATED HEREON FOR THE NEW
ALIGNMENT OF EARL STREET AND SILVER CREEK ROAD.
2. A 10.00 FOOT PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT WILL REMAIN ALONG THE NORTH LINE OF LOT A
BETWEEN SILVER CREEK ROAD AND EARL STREET (41,057 SQ. FT. 0.943 ACRE PARCEL).
3. SET NAIL AND WASHER IN ASPHALT.
4. SUMMIT COUNTY SERVICE AREA #3 IS THE AUTHORITY FOR THE ROAD AND WATER OF
EARL STREET.
5. ADDRESSES WILL BE ASSIGNED AT THE POINT WHEN A BUILDING PERMIT IS APPLIED
FOR.
BOUNDARY LINE
ADJOINING PARCEL LINE
RIGHT OF WAY LINE
RIGHT OF WAY DEDICATED HEREON
FOUND RIGHT OF WAY MONUMENT
SET REBAR WITH CAP STAMPED "WCG"
UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED
PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENTP.U.E.
LEGEND
EASEMENT LINE
r/w
PROJECT NO:       20-137
DESIGNED BY: DJA
DRAWN BY:DJA
CHECKED BY:         KWT
DATE:          03/11/2026
PARCELS BEING SUBDIVIDED:
UNNUMBERED PARCELS &
SL-I-4-1-SC-X, SL-I-9-A-SC-X,
SL-I-9-C-1-X, SL-I-9-E-SC-X,
SL-I-9-A-AM
SILVER CREEK ESTATES UNIT 'I'
AMENDMENT TO LOT A
LOCATED IN ALL QUARTERS OF SECTION 16, TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 4 EAST,
SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN
DETAIL A
VACATED DESCRIPTIONS
SILVER CREEK ROAD ROADWAY EASEMENT DESCRIPTION VACATED HEREON:
A ROADWAY EASEMENT LYING WITHIN THE NORTHEAST AND SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 16,
TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 4 EAST, SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN, MORE PARTICULARLY
DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS: BEGINNING AT THE INTERSECTION OF THE CENTER LINE OF SILVER CREEK
ROAD AND EARL STREET ACCORDING TO THE OFFICIAL PLAT OF SILVER CREEK ESTATES UNIT I, ENTRY
NUMBER 100552 IN THE OFFICE OF THE SUMMIT COUNTY RECORDER, SAID POINT BEING SOUTH
89°20'30" EAST 547.49 FEET MORE OR LESS ALONG THE SOUTH SECTION LINE AND NORTH 2981.36
FEET MORE OR LESS FROM THE SOUTH QUARTER CORNER OF SECTION 16, TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH,
RANGE 4 EAST, SALT LAKE MERIDIAN; RUNNING THENCE SOUTHERLY 426.53 FEET ALONG THE CENTER
LINE OF SILVER CREEK ROAD BEING THE ARC OF A 3500.00 FOOT RADIUS CURVE TO THE LEFT, CHORD
BEARS SOUTH 15°47'28" EAST 426.27 FEET; THENCE SOUTH 81°21'52" WEST 50.86 FEET TO THE WEST
ROADWAY EASEMENT LINE OF SILVER CREEK ROAD; THENCE NORTHERLY 423.22 FEET ALONG SAID
WEST LINE AND THE ARC OF A 3550.00 FOOT RADIUS CURVE TO THE RIGHT, CHORD BEARS NORTH
15°42'55" WEST 422.97 FEET TO THE CENTER LINE OF EARL STREET; THENCE NORTH 77°41'59" EAST
50.00 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.
CONTAINING 21,244 SQUARE FEET OR 0.488 ACRES OVERALL.
EARL STREET ROADWAY EASEMENT DESCRIPTION VACATED HEREON:
A ROADWAY EASEMENT LYING WITHIN THE NORTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 16, TOWNSHIP 1
SOUTH, RANGE 4 EAST, SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN, MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS
FOLLOWS: BEGINNING AT THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF LOT 3, BLOCK 4, SILVER CREEK ESTATES UNIT I,
RECORDED AS ENTRY NUMBER 100552 IN THE OFFICE OF THE SUMMIT COUNTY RECORDER, SAID
CORNER BEING ON THE CENTER LINE OF EARL STREET, SAID CORNER IS ALSO 178.38 FEET SOUTH
89°20'30" EAST ALONG THE SECTION LINE AND 2,926.07 FEET NORTH FROM THE SOUTH QUARTER
CORNER OF SAID SECTION 16 (BASIS OF BEARING BEING SOUTH 89°20'30" EAST 2,662.78 FEET FROM
THE SOUTH QUARTER CORNER TO THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF SECTION 16); RUNNING THENCE
ALONG THE CENTER OF EARL STREET THE FOLLOWING THREE (3) COURSES: 1) SOUTH 89°40'36" EAST
31.58 FEET; 2) THENCE EASTERLY 199.19 FEET ALONG THE ARC OF A 904.08 FOOT RADIUS CURVE TO
THE LEFT (NOTE: CHORD TO SAID CURVE BEARS NORTH 84°00'42” EAST 198.79 FEET); AND 3) THENCE
NORTH 77°41'59" EAST 93.09 FEET TO THE WEST ROADWAY EASEMENT LINE OF SILVER CREEK ROAD;
THENCE ALONG SAID WEST LINE SOUTHERLY 30.00 FEET ALONG THE ARC OF A 3,550 FOOT RADIUS
NON-TANGENT CURVE TO THE LEFT (NOTE: CHORD TO SAID CURVE BEARS SOUTH 12°32'31" EAST
30.00 FEET) TO THE SOUTH ROADWAY EASEMENT LINE OF EARL STREET; THENCE ALONG SAID SOUTH
LINE THE FOLLOWING THREE (3) COURSES: 1) SOUTH 77°41'59" WEST 93.22 FEET; 2) THENCE
WESTERLY 205.80 FEET ALONG THE ARC OF A 934.08 FOOT RADIUS CURVE TO THE RIGHT (NOTE:
CHORD TO SAID CURVE BEARS SOUTH 84°00'42” WEST 205.38 FEET); AND 3) THENCE NORTH 89°40'36"
WEST 31.58 FEET TO THE EAST LINE OF SAID LOT 3; THENCE NORTH 00°19'24" EAST 30.00 FEET TO THE
POINT OF BEGINNING.
THE ABOVE DESCRIBED EASEMENT CONTAINING 9,816 SQUARE FEET OR 0.225 ACRES.
RECORD DESCRIPTIONS CONTINUED
FOOT RADIUS CURVE TO THE RIGHT, CHORD BEARS NORTH 13°38'09" WEST 192.42 FEET; 2) THENCE
SOUTH 77°42'16" WEST 45.64 FEET MORE OR LESS TO THE EAST LINE OF LOT A, SILVER CREEK ESTATES
UNIT I AMENDING BLOCK 1, PARCEL A, BLOCK 4, LOTS 1,2 & 16-REM, AND A PORTION OF BLOCK 9,
RECORDED AS ENTRY NUMBER 1231208 IN THE OFFICE OF THE SUMMIT COUNTY RECORDER; THENCE
NORTHERLY 30.15 FEET ALONG THE ARC OF A 1376.86 FOOT RADIUS CURVE TO THE RIGHT, CHORD
BEARS NORTH 06°27'32" WEST 30.15 FEET ALONG SAID EAST BOUNDARY LINE OF LOT A TO THE
CENTER LINE OF EARL STREET; THENCE NORTH 77°41'59" EAST 92.86 FEET ALONG SAID CENTER LINE
TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.
THE ABOVE DESCRIBED TRACT OF LAND CONTAINS 12,826 SQUARE FEET MORE OR LESS OR 0.2944
ACRES MORE OR LESS IN AREA.
REMAINDER PARCEL OF ENTRY NUMBER 1175859 (NO TAX ID NUMBER):
A PARCEL OF LAND BEING A PART OF BLOCK 9 AND LOT 1, BLOCK 4, OF SILVER CREEK ESTATES UNIT I,
ENTRY NUMBER 100552, AS RECORDED IN THE OFFICE OF THE SUMMIT COUNTY RECORDER, LYING
BETWEEN THE CENTER LINE OF SILVER CREEK ROAD AND THE EAST LINE OF A PARCEL CONVEYED IN
ENTRY NUMBER 1194357 IN THE OFFICE OF THE SUMMIT COUNTY RECORDER MORE PARTICULARLY
DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS: BEGINNING AT A POINT ON THE CENTER LINE OF SILVER CREEK ROAD BEING
SOUTHERLY 224.73 FEET ALONG THE ARC OF A 3500.00 FOOT RADIUS CURVE TO THE LEFT, CHORD
BEARS SOUTH 14°08'21" EAST 224.69 FEET, FROM THE INTERSECTION OF THE CENTER LINE OF EARL
STREET AND SILVER CREEK ROAD, SAID POINT ALSO BEING SOUTH 89°20'30" EAST 602.38 FEET MORE
OR LESS ALONG THE SOUTH SECTION LINE AND NORTH 2764.10 FEET MORE OR LESS FROM THE SOUTH
QUARTER CORNER OF SECTION 16, TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 4 EAST, SALT LAKE MERIDIAN;
RUNNING THENCE SOUTHERLY 201.80 FEET ALONG THE CENTER LINE OF SILVER CREEK ROAD BEING
THE ARC OF A 3500.00 FOOT RADIUS CURVE TO THE LEFT, CHORD BEARS SOUTH 17°37'50" EAST
201.77 FEET TO THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF A PARCEL OF LAND CONVEYED IN ENTRY NUMBER
558156 IN THE OFFICE OF THE SUMMIT COUNTY RECORDER; THENCE ALONG THE NORTH LINE OF SAID
PARCEL THE FOLLOWING TWO (2) COURSES: 1) SOUTH 81°21'52" WEST 57.72 FEET; 2) THENCE
WESTERLY 27.55 FEET MORE OR LESS ALONG THE ARC OF A 125.00 FOOT RADIUS CURVE TO THE LEFT,
CHORD BEARS SOUTH 75°03'12" WEST 27.50 FEET TO THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF A PARCEL
CONVEYED IN ENTRY NUMBER 1194357 IN THE OFFICE OF THE SUMMIT COUNTY RECORDER; THENCE
NORTHERLY 203.66 FEET MORE OR LESS ALONG THE ARC OF A 2533.43 FOOT RADIUS CURVE TO THE
RIGHT, CHORD BEARS NORTH 80°04'53" EAST 203.61 FEET TO A PARCEL CONVEYED IN ENTRY NUMBER
1194356 IN THE OFFICE OF THE SUMMIT COUNTY RECORDER; THENCE NORTH 80°04'53" EAST 90.10
FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.
THE ABOVE DESCRIBED TRACT OF LAND CONTAINS 17,561 SQUARE FEET MORE OR LESS OR 0.4031
ACRES MORE OR LESS IN AREA.
RECORD DESCRIPTIONS
PARCEL SL-I-9-A-AM:
ALL OF LOT A, SILVER CREEK ESTATES UNIT I AMENDING BLOCK 1, PARCEL A, BLOCK 4, LOTS 1,2 &
16-REM, AND A PORTION OF BLOCK 9 ACCORDING TO THE OFFICIAL PLAT THEREOF RECORDED AS
ENTRY NO. 1231208 BOOK 2848. PAGE 1845 IN THE OFFICE OF THE SUMMIT COUNTY RECORDER.
THE ABOVE DESCRIBED TRACT OF LAND CONTAINS 14.07 ACRES IN AREA.
PARCEL SL-I-4-1-SC-X:
A PARCEL OF LAND BEING A PART OF LOT 1 OF SILVER CREEK ESTATES UNIT I, ENTRY NUMBER 100552,
AS RECORDED IN THE OFFICIAL RECORDS OF THE SUMMIT COUNTY RECORDER'S OFFICE, SAID PARCEL
OF LAND BEING MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS: BEGINNING AT THE NORTHEAST
CORNER OF LOT 1 BLOCK 4, SILVER CREEK ESTATES UNIT I, ENTRY NUMBER 100552 SUMMIT COUNTY
RECORDER'S OFFICE, SAID POINT BEING SOUTH 89°20'30" EAST 504.79 FEET COINCIDENT WITH THE
SOUTH SECTION LINE AND NORTH 2940.73 FEET FROM THE SOUTH QUARTER CORNER OF SECTION 16,
TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 4 EAST, SALT LAKE MERIDIAN; AND RUNNING THENCE COINCIDENT WITH
THE WEST LINE OF SILVER CREEK ROAD AND EAST LOT LINE OF LOT 1, A DISTANCE OF 192.44 FEET
ALONG THE ARC OF A 3550.00 FOOT RADIUS CURVE TO THE LEFT, CHORD BEARS SOUTH 13°38'09" EAST
192.42 FEET TO THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF LOT 1; THENCE COINCIDENT WITH THE SOUTH LOT LINE
SOUTH 80°04'13" WEST 54.32 FEET TO A POINT ON A 1375.95 FOOT NON TANGENT RADIUS CURVE TO
THE RIGHT; THENCE ALONG THE ARC OF SAID CURVE 190.32 FEET, CHORD BEARS NORTH 11°02'58"
WEST 190.17 FEET TO A POINT ON THE NORTH LINE OF LOT 1; THENCE COINCIDENT WITH SAID NORTH
LOT LINE NORTH 77°41'59" EAST 45.64 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.
THE ABOVE DESCRIBED TRACT OF LAND CONTAINS 9,386.41 SQUARE FEET OR 0.21 ACRES IN AREA.
PARCEL SL-I-9-A-SC-X:
A PARCEL OF LAND BEING A PART OF BLOCK 9 OF SILVER CREEK ESTATES UNIT I, ENTRY NUMBER
100552, AS RECORDED IN THE OFFICIAL RECORDS OF THE SUMMIT COUNTY RECORDER'S OFFICE, SAID
PARCEL OF LAND BEING MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS: BEGINNING SOUTH 80°04'13"
WEST 37.04 FEET FROM THE COMMON NORTHEAST CORNER OF BLOCK 9 AND SOUTHEAST CORNER OF
LOT 1, BLOCK 4 SILVER CREEK ESTATES UNIT I, ENTRY NUMBER 100552 SUMMIT COUNTY RECORDER'S
OFFICE, SAID POINT BEING SOUTH 89°30'20" EAST 513.67 FEET COINCIDENT WITH THE SOUTH SECTION
LINE AND NORTH 2747.45 FEET FROM THE SOUTH QUARTER CORNER OF SECTION 16, TOWNSHIP 1
SOUTH, RANGE 4 EAST, SALT LAKE MERIDIAN; AND RUNNING THENCE COINCIDENT WITH THE WEST LINE
OF SILVER CREEK ROAD PER UDOT RIGHT OF WAY DRAWINGS, PROJECT IM-80-4(81)148 APPROVED
9/20/1999, A DISTANCE OF 203.66 FEET ALONG THE ARC OF A 2533.43 FOOT RADIUS CURVE TO THE
LEFT, CHORD BEARS SOUTH 18°59'01" EAST 203.61 FEET TO THE NORTH ROADWAY RIGHT OF WAY AND
UTILITY EASEMENT LINE, ENTRY NUMBER 113713 SUMMIT COUNTY RECORDER'S OFFICE; THENCE
COINCIDENT WITH SAID RIGHT OF WAY AND UTILITY EASEMENT, 22.84 FEET ALONG THE ARC OF A
125.00 FOOT RADIUS NON-TANGENT CURVE TO THE LEFT, CHORD BEARS SOUTH 63°27'18" WEST 22.81
FEET TO A POINT ON A 2088.30 FOOT RADIUS NONTANGENT CURVE TO THE RIGHT; THENCE ALONG THE
ARC OF SAID CURVE 209.49 FEET, CHORD BEARS NORTH 17°27'59" WEST 209.40 FEET TO A POINT ON
THE SOUTH LINE OF LOT 1; THENCE COINCIDENT WITH SAID LOT LINE NORTH 80°04'13" EAST 17.28 FEET
TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.
THE ABOVE DESCRIBED TRACT OF LAND CONTAINS 4,176.45 SQUARE FEET OR 0.10 ACRES IN AREA.
PARCEL SL-I-9-C-1-X:
BEGINNING AT A POINT ON THE WEST LINE OF SILVER CREEK ROAD, SAID POINT BEING SOUTHEASTERLY
ALONG THE WESTERLY LINE OF SILVER CREEK ROAD A DISTANCE OF 172.02 FEET FROM THE NORTH LINE
OF BLOCK 9, SILVER CREEK ESTATES UNIT "I", ACCORDING TO THE OFFICIAL PLAT THEREOF ON FILE IN
OFFICE OF THE SUMMIT COUNTY RECORDER, AND RUNNING THENCE SOUTHEASTERLY ALONG SAID
SILVER CREEK ROAD ON A CURVE TO THE LEFT, THE RADIUS POINT OF WHICH IS NORTH 70°14'13" EAST
3,550 FEET, A DISTANCE OF 28.38 FEET; THENCE SOUTH 58°37' WEST 123.67 FEET; TH NORTH 29°54'52"
EAST 60.63 FEET; THENCE NORTHEASTERLY ON A CURVE TO THE RIGHT, THE RADIUS POINT OF WHICH IS
SOUTH 60°05'08" EAST 75.0 FEET, A DISTANCE OF 67.34 FEET; THENCE NORTH 81°21'42" EAST 12.02
FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING
THE ABOVE DESCRIBED TRACT OF LAND CONTAINS 0.01 ACRES IN AREA.
PARCEL SL-I-9-E-SC-X:
A PARCEL OF LAND BEING LOCATED IN THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF
SECTION 16, TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 4 EAST, SALT LAKE MERIDIAN, SAID PARCEL OF LAND BEING
MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS: BEGINNING AT A POINT ON THE UDOT RIGHT OF WAY
LINE SAID POINT BEING SOUTH 89°20'30" EAST 619.17 FEET COINCIDENT WITH THE SOUTH SECTION
LINE AND NORTH 2478.88 FEET FROM THE SOUTH QUARTER CORNER OF SECTION 16, TOWNSHIP 1
SOUTH, RANGE 4 EAST, SALT LAKE MERIDIAN; AND RUNNING THENCE COINCIDENT TO SAID RIGHT OF
WAY LINE SOUTH 8°39'05" EAST 56.69 FEET; THENCE NORTH 38°29'14" WEST 52.66 FEET THENCE
NORTH 58°33'53" EAST 28.42 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.
THE ABOVE DESCRIBED TRACT OF LAND CONTAINS 742.55 SQUARE FEET OR 0.02 ACRES IN AREA.
REMAINDER PARCEL OF ENTRY NUMBER 1166688 (NO TAX ID NUMBER):
A PARCEL OF LAND BEING A PART OF LOT 1, BLOCK 4, OF SILVER CREEK ESTATES UNIT I, ENTRY NUMBER
100552, AS RECORDED IN THE OFFICE OF THE SUMMIT COUNTY RECORDER, LYING BETWEEN THE
CENTER LINE AND THE WEST LINE OF SILVER CREEK ROAD AND THE CENTER LINE AND THE SOUTH LINE
OF EARL STREET MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS: BEGINNING AT THE INTERSECTION OF
THE CENTER LINE OF SILVER CREEK ROAD AND EARL STREET ACCORDING TO THE OFFICIAL PLAT OF
SILVER CREEK ESTATES UNIT I, ENTRY NUMBER 100552 IN THE OFFICE OF THE SUMMIT COUNTY
RECORDER, SAID POINT BEING SOUTH 89°20'30" EAST 547.49 FEET MORE OR LESS ALONG THE SOUTH
SECTION LINE AND NORTH 2981.36 FEET MORE OR LESS FROM THE SOUTH QUARTER CORNER OF
SECTION 16, TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 4 EAST, SALT LAKE MERIDIAN; RUNNING THENCE SOUTHERLY
224.73 FEET ALONG THE CENTER LINE OF SILVER CREEK ROAD BEING THE ARC OF A 3500.00 FOOT
RADIUS CURVE TO THE LEFT, CHORD BEARS SOUTH 14°08'21" EAST 224.69 FEET; THENCE SOUTH
80°05'03" WEST 53.06 FEET MORE OR LESS TO THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF A PARCEL CONVEYED IN
ENTRY NUMBER 1194356 IN THE OFFICE OF THE SUMMIT COUNTY RECORDER; THENCE ALONG SAID
PARCEL THE FOLLOWING TWO (2) COURSES: 1) NORTHERLY 192.44 FEET ALONG THE ARC OF A 3550.00
VICINITY MAP (Not to Scale)
EXHIBIT C2
89
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY 
U.S. ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS, SACRAMENTO DISTRICT 
1325 J STREET 
SACRAMENTO CA 95814-2922 
May 28, 2026 
Regulatory Division (SPK-2003-50370) 
James Kilpatrick 
1389 Center Drive Suite 230 
Park City, Utah 84098-7660 
james@cpdre.com 
Dear Mr. Kilpatrick: 
We are responding to your December 8, 2025 request for a preliminary jurisdictional 
determination (JD) for the Crossroads at Silver Creek site.  The approximately 14-acres 
project site is located north of Interstate 80, west of Silver Creek Road, Latitude 
40.731118°, Longitude -111.504779°, Park City, Summit County, Utah (Enclosure 1). 
Based on available information, we concur with your aquatic resources delineation 
for the site as depicted on the enclosed “Figure 3 Aquatic Resource Delineation Map” 
drawing prepared by M. Horihan, dated September 15, 2025 (Enclosure 2).  The 
approximately 0.3-acre of wetlands and 260-linear feet of riverine present within the 
survey area are potential jurisdictional aquatic resources (“waters of the United States”) 
regulated under Section 404 of the Clean Water Act.  This letter verifies that the location 
and boundaries of wetlands were delineated consistent with the wetland definition at 
33 CFR §328.3(c)(16), the 1987 Corps of Engineers Wetlands Delineation Manual 
(Wetlands Research Program Technical Report Y-87-1) and the applicable regional 
supplements; the location and boundaries of non-tidal waters conform with the ordinary 
high water mark definition at 33 CFR §328.3(c)(7), Regulatory Guidance Letter 05-05, 
and any applicable regional guide. 
At your request, we have completed a preliminary JD for the site. Enclosed find a 
copy of the Preliminary Jurisdictional Determination Form (Enclosure 3). Please sign 
and return the completed form to the address listed below within 30 days of the date of 
this letter.  If you do not return the signed form within 30 days, we will presume 
concurrence and finalize the preliminary jurisdictional determination.  
We recommend you provide a copy of this letter and notice to all other affected 
parties, including any individual who has an identifiable and substantial legal interest in 
the property. 
The delineation included herein has been conducted to identify the location and 
extent of the aquatic resource boundaries for the particular site identified in this request. 
This delineation and/or jurisdictional determination may not be valid for the 
EXHIBIT D1
90
-2- 
 
 
 
 
Wetland Conservation Provisions of the Food Security Act of 1985, as amended.  If you 
or your tenant are USDA program participants, or anticipate participation in USDA 
programs, you should discuss the applicability of a certified wetland determination with 
the local USDA service center, prior to starting work. 
 
You may request an approved JD for this site at any time prior to starting work within 
waters, including after a permit decision is made.  To request an approved JD for this 
site, complete the attached Request for Aquatic Resources Delineation or Jurisdictional 
Determination Form (Enclosure 4) and return it to this office at the address listed below. 
A Notification of Appeal Process and Request for Appeal Form is enclosed to notify you 
of your options with this determination (Enclosure 5).  
 
We appreciate feedback, especially about interactions with our staff and processes.  
 
Please refer to identification number SPK-2003-50370-UO in any correspondence 
concerning this project. If you have any questions, please contact Beth Carlson at the 
Utah Regulatory Field Office, 523 Heritage Park Boulevard, Suite 1, Layton, Utah 
84041-5611, by email at elizabeth.a.carlson@usace.army.mil, or telephone at 
(801) 637-9488.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
Jason Gipson 
Chief, Utah Section 
 
Enclosures 
 
cc:  
Coleman Kline, Civil Solutions Group, Inc., ckline@csg.work 
 
EXHIBIT D2
91
EXHIBIT D3
92
EXHIBIT D4
93
Page 1 of 4 
 
PRELIMINARY JURISDICTIONAL DETERMINATION (PJD) FORM  
BACKGROUND INFORMATION
A. REPORT COMPLETION DATE FOR PJD:  September 1, 2025 
 
B. NAME AND ADDRESS OF PERSON REQUESTING PJD:  James Kilpatrick 1389 Center 
Drive Suite 230 Park City, Utah 84098 
 
C. DISTRICT OFFICE, FILE NAME, AND NUMBER: Crossroads at Silver Creek, SPK-2003-
50370. 
 
D. PROJECT LOCATION(S) AND BACKGROUND INFORMATION: 
(USE THE TABLE BELOW TO DOCUMENT MULTIPLE AQUATIC RESOURCES 
AND/OR AQUATIC RESOURCES AT DIFFERENT SITES) 
State: UT      County: Summit County      City: Park City 
Center coordinates of site:  
Lat.: 40.731118   Long.: -111.504779 
Universal Transverse Mercator: 457375.13, 4509031.9 
Name of nearest waterbody: Kimball Creek 
E. REVIEW PERFORMED FOR SITE EVALUATION (CHECK ALL THAT APPLY):
  Office (Desk) Determination.  Date:  J a n u a r y  1 6 ,  2 0 2 6 
  Field Determination.  Date(s):  May 14, 2026 
 
TABLE OF AQUATIC RESOURCES IN REVIEW AREA WHICH “MAY BE” SUBJECT TO 
REGULATORY JURISDICTION. 
 
Site 
number 
Latitude 
(decimal 
degrees) 
Longitude 
(decimal 
degrees) 
Estimated 
amount of 
aquatic resource 
in review area 
(acreage and 
linear feet, if 
applicable) 
Type of aquatic 
resource (i.e., 
wetland vs. 
non-wetland 
waters) 
Geographic 
authority to which 
the aquatic resource 
“may be” subject 
(i.e., Section 404 or 
Section 10/404) 
Wetland 
A 
 
40.734009° -111.501740° 0.16-acre Wetland Section 404 
Wetland 
B 
40.734081° -111.501384° 0.14-acre Wetland Section 404 
Wetland 
C 
40.733658° -111.502010° 0.01-acre Wetland Section 404 
Basin 
Canyon 
Channel 
40.733894° -111.501828° 260-linear feet Non-wetland 
water 
Section 404 
 
EXHIBIT D5
94
Page 2 of 4 
 
 
1) The Corps of Engineers believes that there may be jurisdictional aquatic resources in the 
review area, and the requestor of this PJD is hereby advised of his or her option to request 
and obtain an approved JD (AJD) for that review area based on an informed decision after 
having discussed the various types of JDs and their characteristics and circumstances 
when they may be appropriate.  
2) In any circumstance where a permit applicant obtains an individual permit, or a Nationwide 
General Permit (NWP) or other general permit verification requiring “pre-construction 
notification” (PCN), or requests verification for a non-reporting NWP or other general 
permit, and the permit applicant has not requested an AJD for the activity, the permit 
applicant is hereby made aware that: (1) the permit applicant has elected to seek a permit 
authorization based on a PJD, which does not make an official determination of 
jurisdictional aquatic resources; (2) the applicant has the option to request an AJD before 
accepting the terms and conditions of the permit authorization, and that basing a permit 
authorization on an AJD could possibly result in less compensatory mitigation being 
required or different special conditions; (3) the applicant has the right to request an 
individual permit rather than accepting the terms and conditions of the NWP or other 
general permit authorization; (4) the applicant can accept a permit authorization and 
thereby agree to comply with all the terms and conditions of that permit, including whatever 
mitigation requirements the Corps has determined to be necessary; (5) undertaking any 
activity in reliance upon the subject permit authorization without requesting an AJD 
constitutes the applicant’s acceptance of the use of the PJD; (6) accepting a permit 
authorization (e.g., signing a proffered individual permit) or undertaking any activity in 
reliance on any form of Corps permit authorization based on a PJD constitutes agreement 
that all aquatic resources in the review area affected in any way by that activity will be 
treated as jurisdictional, and waives any challenge to such jurisdiction in any administrative 
or judicial compliance or enforcement action, or in any administrative appeal or in any 
Federal court; and (7) whether the applicant elects to use either an AJD or a PJD, the JD 
will be processed as soon as practicable. Further, an AJD, a proffered individual permit 
(and all terms and conditions contained therein), or individual permit denial can be 
administratively appealed pursuant to 33 C.F.R. Part 331. If, during an administrative 
appeal, it becomes appropriate to make an official determination whether geographic 
jurisdiction exists over aquatic resources in the review area, or to provide an official 
delineation of jurisdictional aquatic resources in the review area, the Corps will provide an 
AJD to accomplish that result, as soon as is practicable. This PJD finds that there “may be” 
waters of the U.S. and/or that there “may be” navigable waters of the U.S. on the subject 
review area, and identifies all aquatic features in the review area that could be affected by 
the proposed activity, based on the following information: 
  
EXHIBIT D6
95
Page 3 of 4 
 
SUPPORTING DATA. Data reviewed for PJD (check all that apply) 
 
Checked items should be included in subject file. Appropriately reference sources below 
where indicated for all checked items: 
 
  Maps, plans, plots or plat submitted by or on behalf of the PJD requestor: 
Map: Figure 2 Aquatic Resources Delineation Map. 
  Data sheets prepared/submitted by or on behalf of the PJD requestor. 
  Office concurs with data sheets/delineation report. 
  Office does not concur with data sheets/delineation report.  Rationale:      . 
  Data sheets prepared by the Corps: SP 3 taken by 
Beth Carlson dated May 15, 2025.  
  Corps navigable waters’ study:      . 
  U.S. Geological Survey Hydrologic Atlas:      .  
  USGS NHD data. 
  USGS 8 and 12 digit HUC maps. 
  U.S. Geological Survey map(s). Cite scale & quad name: Park City East.   
  Natural Resources Conservation Service Soil Survey. Citation: Custom Soil 
Resource Report for Summit Area, Utah, Parts of Summit, Salt Lake and Wasatch 
Counties, Crossroads at Silver Creek dated January 16, 2026. 
  National wetlands inventory map(s). Cite name: Figure 5 NWI 
Map prepared by Civil Solutions Group dated September of 2025.  
  State/local wetland inventory map(s):      . 
  FEMA/FIRM maps:      . 
  100-year Floodplain Elevation is:      .  (National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929) 
  Photographs:   Aerial (Name & Date):  Aerial imagery accessed January 16, 2026 
by Google Earth Pro 7.3.6.10201. November 6, 2024, July 22, 2002, August 18, 2003, 
August 24, 2004, July 31, 2006, December 31, 2005, February 17, 2008, June 22, 2009, 
June 17, 2010, September 14, 2011, June 4, 2013, June 16, 2015, July 8, 2016, June 17, 
2017, September 10, 2018, July 18, 2019, September 11, 2020, August 29, 2021, May 24, 
2022, May 29, 2023. 
Aerial imagery accessed May 20, 2026 from GEGD Pro. December 16, 2024, December 
18, 2024, January 13, 2025, January 21, 2025, May 2, 2025, January 19, 2026, March 27, 
2026.  
 Or   Other (Name & Date):  Site 
Photographs taken by Beth Carlson dated 
May 15, 2026. 
  Previous determination(s).  File no. and date of response letter:      .  
  Other information (please specify): Antecedent Precipitation Tool Version 3.0, 
40.73342, -111.50122 accessed January 16, 2026.
 
EXHIBIT D7
96
EXHIBIT D8
97
REQUEST FOR AQUATIC RESOURCES DELINEATION VERIFICATION  
OR JURISDICTIONAL DETERMINATION 
A separate jurisdictional determination (JD) is not necessary to process a permit. An Approved Jurisdictional Determination (AJD) is 
required to definitively determine the extent of waters of the U.S. and is generally used to disclaim jurisdiction over aquatic resources 
that are not waters of the U.S., in cases where the review area contains no aquatic resources, and in cases when the recipient wishes 
to challenge the water of the U.S. determination on appeal. Either an Aquatic Resources Delineation Verification or a Preliminary 
Jurisdictional Determination (PJD) may be used when the recipient wishes to assume that aquatic resources are waters of the U.S. for 
the purposes of permitting. In some circumstances an AJD may require more information, a greater level of effort, and more time to 
produce. If you are unsure which product to request, please speak with your project manager or call the Sacramento District’s general 
information line at (916) 557-5250. 
I am requesting the product indicated below from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Sacramento District, for the review area located at: 
Street Address: ________________________________________ City: ____________________   County: ___________________   
State: ______ Zip: ___________  Section: ______  Township: _______  Range: _______  
Latitude (decimal degrees):_______________   Longitude (decimal degrees): _______________  
The approximate size of the review area for the JD is _________ acres. (Please attach location map) 
Choose one: 
I own the review area 
I hold an easement or development rights over the review area
 I lease the review area 
I plan to purchase the review area 
I am an agent/consultant acting on behalf of the requestor 
Other: _________________________________________ 
Choose one product: 
     I am requesting an Aquatic Resources Delineation Verification 
     I am requesting an Approved JD 
     I am requesting a Preliminary JD  
     I am requesting additional information to inform my decision 
about which product to request 
Reason for request: (check all that apply) 
I need information concerning aquatic resources within the review area for planning purposes. 
I intend to construct/develop a project or perform activities in this review area which would be designed to avoid all aquatic       
resources.  
I intend to construct/develop a project or perform activities in this review area which would be designed to avoid those aquatic 
resources determined to be waters of the U.S. 
I intend to construct/develop a project or perform activities in this review area which may require authorization from the Corps; this 
request is accompanied by my permit application. 
I intend to construct/develop a project or perform activities in a navigable water of the U.S. which is included on the district’s list of 
navigable waters under Section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1899 and/or is subject to the ebb and flow of the tide.  
My lender, insurer, investors, local unit of government, etc. has indicated that an aquatic resources delineation verification is 
inadequate and is requiring a jurisdictional determination. 
I intend to contest jurisdiction over particular aquatic resources and request the Corps confirm that these aquatic resources are or 
are not waters of the U.S. 
I believe that the review area may be comprised entirely of dry land. 
Other: __________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
Attached Information: 
Maps depicting the general location and aquatic resources within the review area consistent with Map and Drawing Standards for 
the South Pacific Division Regulatory Program (Public Notice February 2016, 
http://www.spd.usace.army.mil/Missions/Regulatory/Public-Notices-and-References/Article/651327/updated-map-and-drawing-
standards/)  
Aquatic Resources Delineation Report, if available, consistent with the Sacramento District’s Minimum Standards for Acceptance 
(Public Notice January 2016, http://1.usa.gov/1V68IYa) 
By signing below, you are indicating that you have the authority, or are acting as the duly authorized agent of a person or entity with 
such authority, to and do hereby grant Corps personnel right of entry to legally access the review area.  Your signature shall be an 
affirmation that you possess the requisite property rights for this request on the subject property. 
 
*Signature: ____________________________________    Date: _________________  
Name: _______________________________________  Company name: _______________________________________________ 
Address: ___________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
        ___________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
Telephone: __________________________________  Email:_________________________________________________________ 
*Authorities: Rivers and Harbors Act, Section 10, 33 USC 403; Clean Water Act, Section 404, 33 USC 1344; Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act, Section 103, 33 USC 1413; Regulatory 
Program of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers; Final Rule for 33 CFR Parts 320-332.   
Principal Purpose: The information that you provide will be used in evaluating your request to determine whether there are any aquatic resources within the project area subject to federal jurisdiction 
under the regulatory authorities referenced above.   
Routine Uses: This information may be shared with the Department of Justice and other federal, state, and local government agencies, and the public, and may be made available as part of a public 
notice as required by federal law.  Your name and property location where federal jurisdiction is to be determined will be included in the approved jurisdictional determination (AJD), which will be made 
available to the public on the District's website and on the Headquarters USACE website.   
Disclosure: Submission of requested information is voluntary; however, if information is not provided, the request for an AJD cannot be evaluated nor can an AJD be issued. 
EXHIBIT D9
98
EXHIBIT D10
99
EXHIBIT D11
100
EXHIBIT D12
101
EXHIBIT D13
102
COLUMBUS PACIFIC DEVELOPMENT   |   1389 CENTER DRIVE SUITE 230  |   PARK CITY , UT 84098
SILVER CREEK 
DEVELOPMENT
CROSSROADS
AT SILVER CREEK
EXHIBIT E1
103
COLUMBUS PACIFIC DEVELOPMENT   |   1389 CENTER DRIVE SUITE 230  |   PARK CITY , UT 84098
SILVER CREEK 
DEVELOPMENT
MPD Narrative
12. Environmental Management
The Crossroads at Silver Creek Master Planned Development is designed with strong environmental consideration, integrating natural systems, climate-
responsive design, and sustainable infrastructure to function cohesively within the Snyderville Basin.
12a. The project’s layout responds to the natural environment, using existing topography to guide building placement and circulation while minimizing grading. 
Landscaped corridors, open space, and pedestrian paths function as stormwater infiltration areas, habitat-supporting green space, and connective elements. 
Native drought tolerant species adapted to the Basin’s high elevation climate support biodiversity reduce irrigation demand and improve long term site 
resilience. The compact mixed-use design reduces vehicle trips and supports walkability.
12b. Water quality protection is a central component of the site engineering strategy. A portion of the project site has been determined to be delineated 
wetlands.  As  part of the review process, buildings and improvements were relocated away from these critical lands, allowing for long-term protections of the 
wetland area. Stormwater will be managed through vegetated swales, bio retention areas, and on-site detention systems designed to slow and infiltrate runoff 
before controlled release. These systems reduce peak flows and protect downstream waterways. During construction, erosion and sediment control measures 
will be implemented in accordance with county requirements to prevent off site impacts. Long term water conservation will be supported through high efficiency 
plumbing fixtures, drought tolerant landscaping, drip irrigation where feasible, and smart irrigation controllers that adjust watering schedules based on weather 
conditions.
12c. Air quality considerations are addressed both during construction and long-term operations. Dust control measures will be implemented throughout grading 
and construction activities to minimize dust and maintain clean site conditions. Operationally, the mixed use design reduces reliance on vehicle travel by placing 
residential units, workforce housing, and neighborhood scale commercial uses within walking distance of one another. Sidewalks, trail connections, and bicycle 
accommodations further support alternative modes of transportation. Energy efficient building systems will also reduce long term operational emissions.
12d. The project has been carefully designed to comply with the critical lands requirements outlined in Chapter 10-4-3 of the Summit County Code. Required 
setbacks and buffers will be maintained where applicable to protect sensitive areas. No development will occur within wetlands, and no wetland permit is 
required. However, a wetland delineation has been completed, and preliminary jurisdictional approval will be received from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
CROSSROADS
AT SILVER CREEK
EXHIBIT E2
104
COLUMBUS PACIFIC DEVELOPMENT   |   1389 CENTER DRIVE SUITE 230  |   PARK CITY , UT 84098
SILVER CREEK 
DEVELOPMENT
MPD Narrative
12e. Energy efficiency is addressed through high performance building envelopes, advanced insulation systems, and high efficiency HVAC equipment. All 
structures will meet or exceed currently adopted International Building Code. LED lighting, smart thermostats, and high-performance windows will further 
reduce energy consumption. The developer will evaluate opportunities to exceed minimum standards where practical, including solar ready roof design where 
feasible.
12f. Material choices prioritize durability and sustainability suited to a mountain environment. Exterior materials will be selected for longevity, weather 
resistance, and low maintenance. Where feasible, recycled and locally sourced materials will be incorporated to reduce environmental impact. 
12g. Recycling and waste management have been incorporated into the site design in compliance with Summit County Code Chapter 10-4-13. Dedicated 
enclosures will serve commercial uses and workforce housing, providing centralized trash and recycling collection that is integrated to minimize visual impact 
while remaining accessible for collection services. Residential townhomes will use individual waste and recycling containers.
12h. The design responds to the local climate in both building and site planning. Buildings are oriented to capture winter sun while limiting summer heat using 
overhangs and shading. Roofs are shaped to handle snow loads and direct snow away from entrances and walkways. Covered entries reduce snow buildup at 
access points. Designated snow storage areas and drainage systems manage runoff safely. Windows bring in daylight and can be opened for natural ventilation 
during mild weather. Landscaping and building placement help reduce wind impacts common in the Snyderville Basin, supporting sustainability and long-term 
resilience. 
12i. Landscaping is designed for the Basin’s climate and terrain. Native plants will reduce water use and support ecological health. Turf is limited to functional 
areas, and irrigation uses drip systems, moisture sensors, and weather controls to save water while keeping the landscape attractive and practical.
CROSSROADS
AT SILVER CREEK
EXHIBIT E3
105
COLUMBUS PACIFIC DEVELOPMENT   |   1389 CENTER DRIVE SUITE 230  |   PARK CITY , UT 84098
SILVER CREEK 
DEVELOPMENT
MPD Narrative
13. Site Design Narrative
The Crossroads at Silver Creek site is designed to promote connectivity, walkability, and integration with surrounding infrastructure. 
13a. Primary vehicular access is via Nanga Bear Lane, connected to Silver Creek Road through the new roundabout, which enhances traffic flow and safety. 
Internal streets are arranged to support phased development and provide logical circulation between residential and commercial areas. The street network 
reduces conflict points and ensures efficient emergency access. Pedestrian and bicycle connectivity are central to the project layout. Sidewalks are provided 
along internal streets, and trail connections extend throughout the site, linking residential areas to commercial spaces and community amenities. These internal 
connections are designed to integrate with surrounding pathways where available, supporting multimodal transportation and reducing short vehicle trips. Where 
possible, the internal pathways also connect to existing trails and sidewalks outside the development.
13b. The project is conveniently located near neighborhood services, including commercial buildings on the east side of Silver Creek Road, as well as nearby 
churches and schools. The development also includes neighborhood-scale commercial space, providing residents with easy walking access to daily needs.
13c. The proposed development addresses community housing needs by offering a mix of market-rate townhomes, workforce housing apartments, and market-
rate apartments. This variety supports different household sizes and income levels and aligns with County housing goals.
13d. The project is designed as a cohesive, mountain-friendly neighborhood with a pedestrian focus. Building layouts respond to the climate and avoid visual 
repetition. Entries face streets and shared spaces to encourage activity and safety. Public areas between buildings provide gathering spots and connect to on-site 
trails for recreation.
13e. The site plan works with existing topography to minimize excessive grading and preserve natural contours where feasible. Development intensity is 
clustered to maintain meaningful open space areas and integrate stormwater management features into landscaped zones.
13f. Street design supports multiple transportation modes and encourages safe vehicle speeds, with designated limits near the roundabout and a stop sign 
controlling access to the commercial parking area. Pedestrian and bike paths connect throughout the site to promote alternative transportation.
CROSSROADS
AT SILVER CREEK
EXHIBIT E4
106
COLUMBUS PACIFIC DEVELOPMENT   |   1389 CENTER DRIVE SUITE 230  |   PARK CITY , UT 84098
SILVER CREEK 
DEVELOPMENT
MPD Narrative
13g. Parking is located near buildings to reduce scale and visibility, clustered around the commercial uses and apartments.  The townhouse configurations utilize 
an auto-court design to minimize driveway cuts and reduce street conflicts, while screening garages from the primary view corridors. Trees and landscaping 
soften views, provide shade, and manage heat. The layout follows natural topography, limiting grading and site disturbance. Stormwater is treated with swales 
and engineered drainage. Lighting is shielded and directed downward for safety without affecting neighbors.
13h. Outdoor spaces are integrated throughout the development, including trail corridors, landscaped areas, and community amenities. These spaces support 
recreation, social interaction, and ecological health while reinforcing neighborhood character. An amenity building provides a central gathering place for 
residents.
13i. Service areas, recycling facilities, and utility equipment are consolidated and screened to preserve visual quality. These elements are integrated into the 
architectural design so they do not detract from the pedestrian environment. Mail for commercial uses will be delivered on-site, while residential mailboxes will 
be located in the amenity building.
13j. The building(s) provides a healthy and comfortable environment with abundant natural light, fresh air, and direct access to outdoor spaces. Interiors are 
flexible and designed for everyday comfort, while landscaped areas, terraces, and shared spaces encourage activity and social interaction. Private, shared, and 
public spaces are carefully arranged to maintain privacy, activate streetscapes, and foster a strong sense of community.
CROSSROADS
AT SILVER CREEK
EXHIBIT E5
107
COLUMBUS PACIFIC DEVELOPMENT   |   1389 CENTER DRIVE SUITE 230  |   PARK CITY , UT 84098
SILVER CREEK 
DEVELOPMENT
Future Phase II: & III Mixed Use
Commercial Retail
Residential Townhomes & Apartments
Community & Non-Profit
CROSSROADS
AT SILVER CREEK
EXHIBIT E6
108
COLUMBUS PACIFIC DEVELOPMENT   |   1389 CENTER DRIVE SUITE 230  |   PARK CITY , UT 84098
SILVER CREEK 
DEVELOPMENT
Draft Townhome Floor Plans and Elevation Styles
CROSSROADS
AT SILVER CREEK
EXHIBIT E7
109
COLUMBUS PACIFIC DEVELOPMENT   |   1389 CENTER DRIVE SUITE 230  |   PARK CITY , UT 84098
SILVER CREEK 
DEVELOPMENT
Draft Affordable Housing Plans
CROSSROADS
AT SILVER CREEK
EXHIBIT E8
110
COLUMBUS PACIFIC DEVELOPMENT   |   1389 CENTER DRIVE SUITE 230  |   PARK CITY , UT 84098
SILVER CREEK 
DEVELOPMENT
Silver Creek Estates – View Lots
CROSSROADS
AT SILVER CREEK
EXHIBIT E9
111
From: dayna stern
To: Tiffanie Robinson
Subject: Opposition to silver creek rezone
Date: Wednesday, July 8, 2026 4:15:44 PM
You don't often get email from sterndayna@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
As a homeowner in Silver Creek I am opposed to a rezone in our neighborhood. It is zoned
rural residential and a rezone will only benefit the developers who will make money at the
expense of current homeowners who will experience increased traffic and construction.
Additionally we are experiencing water shortages. Please respect current zoning and the
wishes of current residents.
 
 The rezone will not benefit the community.
 
Thank you.
 
Dayna Stern
+1 425 681-6045
sterndayna@gmail.com
EXHIBIT F1
112
From: Teri
To: Tiffanie Robinson
Subject: Comment
Date: Wednesday, July 8, 2026 2:38:11 PM
Attachments: image.png
You don't often get email from teriunderwood@earthlink.net. Learn why this is important
I’m against the conditional use permit for Toni Tyler and against the development of
townhomes, apartments, housing units on parcel at 731 N. Silvercreek Road.
Please keep me updated on any decisions or developments.
Teri Underwood
EXHIBIT F2
113
9475 Silvercreek Rd
Park Cuty, Utah 84098
EXHIBIT F3
114