                  Appendix 8

               STAFF REPORT
Pergolas, Gazebos, and Other Open Air Accessory
                   Structures
                  Jim Spung
   e: August 19, 2025
   Discuss a potential zoning text amendment modi



                            Business Meeting □
Public Hearing Needed?      Yes D No C8l Undetermined □

 M Approval or Denial


REQUEST
Discussion of a proposed zoning text amendment to §19.76.030.B of the Municpal Code, modifying and
clarifying the minimum setback area for specific types of accessory structures, including gazebos and pergolas.


BACKGROUND

On June 16, 2025, the city received an application to amend accessory building standards associated with the
Planned Unit Development Approval for Giverny (PUD-14-001). A detailed summary and background of this
request are provided in the attached Planning Commission staff report. According to the applicant's narrative,
many property owners within the Giverny PUD Community have constructed accessory structures (gazebos
and pergolas) that do not satisfy minimum accessory building setbacks. Several of the existing nonconforming
structures are smaller than 200 square feet and do not require city review or a building permit; however, the
setback standards established in Code still apply.

On July 16, 2025, the Planning Commission held a public hearing and DENIED the applicant's request to amend
the PUD standards. The primary concern was that the amended standards would only apply to the Giverny
PUD and not consider other residential properties in the city with similar characteristics and circumstances.
The Planning Commission requested exploration of a city-wide zoning text amendment to resolve the issues
identified regarding open-air accessory structure standards.



RECOMMENDATION

City staff is requesting the Mayor and City Council weight the general merits of the requested policy change
and if a zoning text amendment should be pursued.



Attachments:

   l. CUP-25-011 Planning Commission Staff Report (with attachments)
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION                                                                         ~
STAFF REPORT                                                                    Cottonwood Heights
                                                                                City between the canyons
July 16, 2025

Summary

Project Number:
CUP-25-011 (PUD-25-001 )

Subject Properties:
Giverny Community
(Approximately 3505 E.
Giverny Pkwy.)

Action Requested:
Conditional Use Approval to
amend the Planned Unit
Development

Applicant:
Brent Johnson (on behalf of
the Giverny HOA)

Recommendation :
APPROVE

                                                     Satellite view of subject property




Background

The applicant is requesting to amend the original Planned Unit Development (PUD) approval for the
Giverny Community (PUD-14-001 ). The intent of this amendment is to incorporate new rules
regarding accessory buildings (also referred to as accesso ry structures) into the PUD. The original
approval letter for the Giverny PUD (attached here) states the following condition of approval:

       5. The setbacks and lots standards are approved as proposed, and/or amended by the
       Planning Commission.

Both the original proposal document and most recently recorded plat only reference lot setbacks
for primary structure (homes), not accessory buildings. Additionally, staff could not locate any
reference to accessory building standards in any other documents relating to the origin al PUD
approval (PUD-14-001 ), or the most recent plat amendment (SUB-17-004).

Given the absence of unique accessory building standards approved as part of the Giverny PUD,
any accessory structure constructed on a lot located within Giverny must meet the accessory
structure standards defined in code, specifically those located in the 19.26 R-1-8 zone, and in
19.76.030. B.
                                                             Planning Commission - July 16, 2025
                                                        Project CU P-25-01 1 - Giverny Community

According to the applicant's narrative, many property owners within the Giverny Community have
constructed accessory structures under the impression that because the build ings are less than
200 square feet large, they did not need a building permit (correctly so), and did not need to meet
accessory structure setbacks, including a 6' minimum distance from the primary structure
(incorrectly so). The applicant's narrative elaborates on this and includes example photographs of
noncomplying structures.



Request

Due to this confusion, as well as the fact that the Giverny Subdivision features uniquely small lot
sizes, the applicant is requesting the PUD amendment (a conditional use permit application) to
remedy this issue. The applicant wishes to modify accessory building standards specifically for the
Giverny PUD. This proposal would only apply to open-air type structures, defined as Gazebos and
Pergolas within city code (19.76.030). This proposal would not apply to other accessory structure
types, such as sheds, detached garages, swimming pools and hot tubs, playgrounds, elevated
decks, etc.

The applicant is proposing the following deviations from city code:

 City Standards                                     Proposed Modification
 Minimum 3' setback from side and rear              Minimum 5' setback from side and rear
 property lines                                     property lines
 Minimum 6' distance from primary structure         No minimum distance from primary structure



Although the applicant's narrative has additional modifications listed, staff is only aware of the
above-listed modifications deviating from code standards.



Ana lysis

Zoning and Land Use
Staff finds the applicant's request for an amendment to the Giverny PUD to be reasonable, given
the reduced lot standards found within the Giverny Subdivision that complicate accessory building
construction on lots within the community. Additionally the proposed modifications would reduce
visual impact on neighboring properties, given that a slightly increased minimum setback would be
required for accessory buildings compared to the standard city code.

Because city code lists planned unit developments as a conditional use in the R-1-8 zone, staff has
processed this PUD amendment application as a conditional use permit. As a conditional use, this
application is entitled to approval unless reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to mitigate
negative impacts of the use. The following excerpt from Utah State Code further describes this:



                                                                                            Page 2 of 5
                                                               Planning Commission - July 16, 2025
                                                          Project CUP-25-011 - Giverny Community

        i) A land use authority shall approve a conditional use if reasonable conditions are
           proposed, or can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental
           effects of the proposed use in accordance with applicable standards. (10-9a-507-2)


        (ii) The requirement described in Subsection (2/(a)(i) to reasonably mitigate anticipated
             detrimental effects of the proposed conditional use does not require elimination of the
             detrimental effects. (10-9a-507-2)

Building Code

At the time of publication of this staff report, staff is awaiting feedback from the Building Official
James Short, regarding any implications the proposal would have on building code. If additional
implications are stated by the Building Official, staff will post a supplementary memo relaying
information. If no implications are found, staff will address this in the public meeting on July 16,
2025.




Conditional Use Pe rmit Procedu re and Aut hority

The Planning Commission is the approval authority for amendments to approved plans and
specifications for a PUD, as referenced in 19.78.160 and 19.78.170:

    19. 78. 160.B. Amendments to approved plans and specifications for a PUD shall be approved
    by the planning commission and a new set of approved plans will be issued by staff to address
    any approved amendments.

    19. 78. 170 Scope Of Planning Commission Action; Appeals

    1. It is the intent of this chapter that site and building plans for a PUD shall be prepared by a
       designer or team of designers having professional competence in urban planning as
       proposed in the application. The planning commission shall require the applicant to engage
       such a qualified designer or design team.
    2. The planning commission may deny an application for a PUD.
    3. In approving an application, the planning commission may attach such conditions as it
       deems necessary to secure compliance with the purposes set forth in this title and to
       mitigate any impacts that a PUD may impose on the surrounding people and properties.
    4. The action of the planning commission may be appealed to the city's appeals hearing
       officer or other appeal authority under Chapter 19. 92 of this title.

The details of such authority on conditional use approval of the project are included below:

        Following any public hearing, the planning commission shall consider the application in a
        public meeting. The staff's written recommendation shall be considered, among other
        factors. The planning commission may either approve the proposed conditional use;
        approve the proposed conditional use subject to specific modifications or conditions;



                                                                                              Page 3 of 5
                                                                Planning Commission - July 16, 2025
                                                          Project CUP-25-01 1 - Giverny Community

         postpone decision pending consideration of additional information to be submitted by the
         applicant; or deny the proposed conditional use. (19.84. 080)

         A conditional use shall be approved if reasonable conditions are proposed, or can be
         imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use in
         accordance with applicable standards. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of
         a proposed conditional use cannot be substantially mitigated by the proposal or the
         imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards, the
         conditional use may be denied. (19.84.020)




Noticing

Per code requirement, notices were posted and mailed at least 1 0 days prior to the meeting.
Individual letters were sent to property owners within 300 feet of the subject property. The notice
was also posted to the city website and bulletin boards at City Hall.

The application was noticed under the file number PUD-25-001. Staff has since updated the
application to reflect what it believes to be the correct file type for this application - a conditional
use permit.



Findings
Findings of fact include:

    1.  That the proposed use is one of the conditional uses specifically listed in the zoning district
        in which it is to be located;
    2. That such use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be detrimental to the
        health, safety, comfort, order or general welfare of persons residing or working in the
        vicinity;
    3. That the use will comply with the intent, spirit, and regulations of this title and will be
        compatible with and implement the planning goals and objectives of the city;
    4. That the use will be harmonious with the neighboring uses in the zoning district in which it is
        to be located;
    5. That nuisances which would not be in harmony with the neighboring uses, will be abated by
        the conditions imposed;
    6. That protection of property values, the environment, and the tax base for the city will be
        assured;
    7. That the use will comply with the city's general plan;
    8. That some form of a guaranty assuring compliance to all imposed conditions will be
        imposed on the applicant or owner;
    9. That the internal circulation system of the proposed development is properly designed;
    10. That existing and proposed utility services will be adequate for the proposed development;
    11. That appropriate buffering will be provided to protect adjacent land uses from light, noise
        and visual impacts;


                                                                                               Page 4 of 5
                                                             Planning Comm ission -July 16, 2025
                                                        Project CUP-25-011 - Giverny Commun ity

   12. That architecture and building materials are consistent with the development and
       surrounding uses, and otherwise compatible with the city's general plan, subdivision
       ordinance, land use ordinance, and any applicable design standards;
   13. That landscaping appropriate for the scale of the development and surrounding uses will be
       installed in compliance with all applicable ordinances;
   14. That the proposed use preserves historical, architectural and environmental features of the
       property; and
   15. That operating and delivery hours will compatible with adjacent land uses.
   16. The foregoing approval standards shall be subject to any contrary requirements of Utah
       Code Ann. § 10-9a-507, as amended.



Recommendation & Model Mot io ns
Based on the findings and analysis presented herein, staff recommends approval of project CUP-
25-011

Approval

I move to approve project CUP-25-011 based on the findings and recommendations listed in the
staff report dated July 16, 2025 ...

   •     List any additional findings or recommendations for approval...

Denial
I move to deny project CUP-25-011 based on the following findings:

   •     List findings for denial...




Attachments
   1. Project Narrative
   2. Original Approval Letter (pg. 1)




                                                                                        Page 5 of 5
Modification of Accessory Structure Setbacks for the Planned Unit
Development Approval for Giverny (PUD-14-001)

July 18, 2025, Planning Commission Hearing

Project Narrative

When a typical R1-8 lot is approved (8000 SF Lot) it would have building setbacks of 8'
and 12' on the side yards, 25' in the front, and 20' in the rear.

When the Giverny project was approved it was done so with smaller homesites that had
smaller building setbacks. In this community , the lots average around 5000 SF, and the
side setbacks are 5' on both sides, 18' in the front, and either 1O' or 15' in the rear.

When an owner at Giverny proposes to build an accessory building on their lot it creates
some challenges in the community since the lots are much smaller. As can be seen from
the diagram below (approved City guidelines for this type of structure) this is based on
what would be a typical 8000 SF lot. These larger lots can much more easily
accommodate this type of structure and can maintain the proper setbacks.

                                          J'
 Accessory structvre ca n be:                      3'    Accessor y structure he ight cannot
 25% of r ear yard                                       e xceed that of the p rimary structure

 70% o f main b uild i ng         20'


                                                                                          20' mo~




                                        ••••. 12' ....




              :'
              :''
              ..
          2s· :'
                                                         ~ The sid e end rea r setbacks increase b y one
                                                         foot for each foot over 14 f eet in height




               ..
              ''
               '            15'




Many of the Owners in Giverny have built Accessory Buildings and did not understand
the requirements. They believed that since their structure was under 120 SF they did not
need a permit, nor that they needed to follow any setback guidelines. However, based
on the current guidelines almost all these structures are not in conformance and would
need to be modified or torn down.

As such, the primary purpose of this submittal is to request some modified setbacks for
Accessory Buildings for the Giverny Community which will allow many of the existing
structures to remain and to create a standard for new structures moving forward.
                        Mod ification of Giverny Accessory Building Setbacks: June 4, 2025


Proposed Design Guidelines

The structures that we would propose this modification for are all more open-air type
structures (no walls) with three or four sides being open. The roof is either an open-air
pergola with roof slats, or, some have a full roof on them. None of these structures are
attached to the home or are habitable spaces. Examples include the following :

Detached Patio Cover with Covered Roof




Detached Open Air Pergola and Detached Covered Pergola




                                            2
                      Modification of Giverny Accessory Building Setbacks: June 4, 2025


Detached Open Air Pergola




Detached Open Air Pergola with Bar Seating and Gas BBQ




                                         3
                            Modification of Giverny Accessory Building Setbacks: June 4, 2025


Modification to Setbacks of Accessory Building Standards


We are proposing to maintain the current city standards regarding Accessory Buildings
with some modifications to the setbacks as shown below. The same standard would
apply to all lots within the Giverny community.

   Accessory Building Standards: The following city standards will remain.

   •   Needs to be a minimum of 5' away from any rear and side fences .
   •   The structure cannot be more than 25% of the surface area of the rear yard which
       is measured from the back of the home.
   •   It cannot exceed 20' in height, and the setbacks increase by 1' for each foot over
       14' in height. In other words, if you had a 17' tall structure you would need to be
       8' from the fences. (5' standard+ 3' for height over 14 feet)

   Modified Accessory Building Standards: The following city standards will be modified.

   •   The structure can be located within 6' of the home but not attached.
   •   The posts of the structure cannot be located closer than 5' to the rear or side
       setback line as this would trigger the requirement for a one-hour fire rated wall
       assembly.
   •   The roof of the structure may overhang the posts by up to 36".
   •   The exception would be that the structure posts can be up to 3' away if opening is
       8' or less in height so fire rated wall (based upon a 75% coverage of opening from
       the ground up) can be at a height not to exceed 6'. By doing this the fire rated wall
       will be at or near the height of the adjacent owner's fence . Typical details are
       shown below. This example has a 7' tall wall:




                 7 ' - ,,                                   8'0"
                            1.sx..1 . S STEEL '1RELUS




                                                        4
                                Modification of Giverny Accessory Bu ilding Set backs: June 4, 2025


   These types of structures automatically require the need for a building permit. These
   are as follows:

   •   ANY structure that is attached to the house. If a structure is attached to the home
       that it MUST be within the building setback lines. For lots in Giverny this means
       either 10' (Lots 301-351 only) or 15' (all other Lots) from the back and at least 5'
       from the side fences.
   •   Any structure that has electricity in it.
   •   Structures that are over 120 SF in total size.
   •   Structures that are over 11' in height.


Based on the proposed changes the modified setbacks allowed would be based on the
changes shown in red below. Minimum setbacks for the Giverny lots were also shown in
red as well.

                                                    i 3'
  Accessory structvre can be:              5'       c._____, 3•       Accessory structvre height cannot
  25% of rear yard
  70% of main bullding
                                                o~~                   exceed that of the primary structure

                                  20'
                                                I
                                   10' or 15'   1
                                                : 6 mln'
                                                I
                                                1   Nominimun




                                                            12·


                                                       5'




                                                                      "' The side and rear setbacks increase by one
          25'
                                                                      foot for each foot over 14 feel in height



                            15'




                                                                  5
                        Modification of Giverny Accessory Building Setbacks: June 4, 2025



Conclusion

Since the Giverny community was approved with smaller setbacks it makes sense that
the community should also have smaller setbacks for Accessory Buildings. Our request
to make this change is to allow owners to have the ability to add these types of
structures while maintaining fire protections under the building code.

It is understood by the Giverny owners that any new structures submitted will need to be
reviewed by the Giverny HOA, and, if required, a permit is issued by the City. Any
existing structures that were not issued a building permit will need to be modified to be
in conformance with these revised standards, or, if that is not possible they will need to
be removed.




                                             6
Mr. Richard Cook
Giverny, LLC
8280 Etienne Way
Sandy, Utah 84093

RE: Preliminary Approval of PUD-14-001 Giverny PUD

Mr. Cook,

This letter is to memorialize that the Planning Commission of the City of Cottonwood Heights
granted preliminary approval of project PUD-14-001 at its meeting held on January 7, 2015. The
approval allows for a 165-lot Planned Unit Development, Giverny PUD, on the property located
at 9160 Wasatch Boulevard. Per Zoning Ordinance chapter 19.78 (Planned Unit Developments),
final approval shall be based on approval of construction drawings and specifications and
satisfaction of all conditions of approval. Conditions of final approva l are as follows:

1.     Approval of this project constitutes a conditional use permit.
2.     Approval of this project constitutes approval of the planned unit development
       subdivision.
3.     The developer shall establish acceptable design guidelines, in a formalized manner, to
       be approved by staff as part of the final plat approval of the PUD.
4.     The proposed PUD shall be owned and maintained by a single or partnership Limited
       Liability Company, corporate entity, or jointly filed by all owners of land.
5.     The setbacks and lots standards are approved as proposed, and/or amended by the
       Planning Commission.
6.     Lots covered by at least fifty percent (50%) of the Sensitive Lands Overlay Zone shall
       have a height limitation of thirty (30) feet.
7.     In addition to the proposed sidewalk system, the developer shall provide enhanced
       intersection treatments, such as textured paving, to highlight pedestrian crossings, as
       agreeable and approved by the city engineer.
8.     Gates are allowed in accordance with the provisions of Title 12 and Title 14 of the
       Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code.
9.     Fencing is limited to rear (and side yards for corner lots), and the perimeter, unless
       approved by staff for mitigating purposes.
10.    Fences within the project shall not exceed six (6) feet in height.
11.    Only one monument entry sign shall be allowed. The sign shall be limited to six (6) feet
       in height and no more than thirty-six (36) square feet in size. The sign shall be setback at
       least three (3) feet from the adjacent right-of-way.
12.    All easements shall be duly mitigated to the satisfaction of staff and/or their assigns
       prior to the recordation of the plat(s).
13.    Staff shall review and approve proposed fencing and gates. (per ARC 6-12-14).
14.    A six (6) foot solid visual barrier fence shall be constructed around the Smith and McGee
       properties, as agreeable with the property owners. The fen ce material shall be either
        masonry or cedar, and shall be decided by the property owners .
15.    All Sensitive Lands Areas shall be shown on Final Plat.
16.     Lots within the Sensitive Lands Overlay Zone shall have a minimum 3,500 square foot
        buildable area and a minimum dimension of fifty (SO) feet.
  Cottonwood Heights
  City '"/IIY(II tl1t <'111)0111



