              Appendix 3

              REPORT

Planning Department Land Use Amendment
    and Rezone at 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

              Jim Spung
                           Business Meeting D

Public Hearing Needed?
                                                             □
 M Approval or Denial
                           CM Signature:


REQUEST
Introduction and discussion of a proposed general plan land use map amendment and rezone of the parcel
located at 3425 E. Bengal Boulevard. The applicant is proposing to amend the General Plan land use map from
Neighborhood Commercial to Residential Medium Density, and to subsequently rezo ne the property from
Neighborhood Commercial (NC) to Residential Multifamily (RM) to subdivide and construct six townhomes on
the property.


BACKGROUND

Detailed summary and background of this request are provided in the attached Planning Commission staff
report.

On July 16, 2025, the Planning Commission held a public hearing and recommended APPROVAL with a 6-1 vote
for both the land use map request and the rezone request.



RECOMMENDATION

The Planning Commission voted to recommend APPROVAL of the proposed amendments with a 6-1 vote.



Attachments:

   1. ZMA-25-003 Planning Commission Staff Report (with attachments)
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION                                                                   7 1/t,, '\ .. (
STAFF REPORT                                                                  ottonwood Heights
                                                                             Ciry between the canyons

July 16, 2025

Su mmary
Project Number:
ZMA-25-003

Subject Property:
3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

Action Requested:
Zoning Map Amend. and
General Plan Amend.

Applicant:
Nathan Anderson
(Brighton Lofts LLC)

Recommendation:
APPROVE


Context
Property Owner:
Brighton Lofts LLC

Acreage:
0.48 acres




Request
The owner of 3425 E. Bengal Blvd. has applied for amendments to the city' s General Plan Land Use
Map (future vision for general use type on a parcel) and Zoning Map (current codified standards that
regulate use and development of a parcel) for the property, as follows:

   •    Current land use designation - Neighborhood Commercial
    •   Proposed land use designation - Residential Medium Density

    •   Current ZQD.ing designation - NC (Neighborhood Commercial)
    •   Proposed zoning designation - RM (Multifamily Residential)
                                               Plann ing Comm ission - July 16, 2025
                                          Project ZMA-25-003 - 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

            CURRENT LAND USE DESIGNATION: Neighborhood Commercial




                                 I
                          Bengal Blvd                              Be ngal Blvd




.1J,1l,jlilil1il!l':J:J
 ..d!J111J1JEJl!Jlill




          PROPOSED LAND USE DESIGNATION: Residential Medium Density




                                  I
                          Bengal Blvd                              Bengal Blvd




~ljilll!I1.rl!l.:Jil
  C   iliJlrJlJ.(tifil!




                                                                           Page 2 of 7
                                               Plann ing Comm ission - July 16, 2025
                                        Project ZMA-25-003 - 3425 E. Bengal Blvd .

CURRENT ZONING DESIGNATION: NC (Neighborhood Commercial)




      Bengal Blvd                                                          Bengal Blvd




                        i'.-·J-!J :,]JJg:r
                                                • yJ ;   iU:lli1filultt,
                              r!.l111i!1




 PROPOSED ZONING DESIGNATION: RM (Residential Multifamily)




                                                         ,.

       Bengal Blvd                                                         Bengal Blvd




                                               L_
                         j'-·J-:J .:.,iJ i'~
                              r:.JIJ ,!!1                '~


                                                                                Page 3 of 7
                                                               Plann ing Commission -J uly 16, 2025
                                                        Project ZMA-25-003 - 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

Background
This property and its primary structure formerly operated as a Wells Fargo bank bra nch prior t o
closure in the early 2020s. The property is zoned NC (Neighborhood Commercial) and has
maintained this designation for as long as staff records indicate. Staff has concluded it is likely that
both the zoning and use of the property as a bank branch were carri ed over from Salt Lake County
prior to city incorporation in 2005.

In late 2024, an application was applied for to develop live-work units on the property, as was
permitted within the NC zone at the time as a conditional use (CUP-24-019). Concerns over
potential negative impacts such as waste pickup and parking led the Planning Commission to
continue the item to subsequent meetings until these concerns could be addressed by the
applicant. The applicant later withdrew the application. Simultaneously, the lack of clear
regulations and definitions regardi ng "live-work units" led City Council to issue a moratorium on all
live-work applications within the city. This did not app ly to CUP-24-019 prior to the app lication's
withdrawal. The moratorium was recently lifted following the adoption of zoning text amendments
to address the concerns.

Following this, a new conditional use permit application was applied for to operate a church on the
property (CUP-25-004). Following st aff review, and just prior to the June 4, 2025 meeting, the
application was withdrawn.

The owner of the property and applicant of the first conditional use permit, Nathan Anderson, is
now applying for a zoning map amendment (rezone) to change the property's zon ing designation
from NC (Neighborhood Commercia l) to RM (M ultifamily Residential) (see page 3). As city code
requires any rezone to be aligned with the Land Use Map wit hin the city's General Plan, a general
plan amendment has also been applied for the change the land use designation of the property
from 'Neighborhood Commercial' to 'Residential Medium Density' (see page 2).

Although review of any potential development is not within the scope of this application, the
applicant has provided context for the request w ithin their narrative: The app licant wishes to
develop six town home units facing Oakshadow Cir, perpendicular to Bengal Blvd. Conceptual
designs provided by the applicant can be found attached to this staff report. The RM zone allows
attached single-family dwellings (townhomes) as a permitted use, not requiring conditional use
approval.



Analys is & Procedure
Staff Analysis

Staff finds that the request to amend the land use map from 'Neighbo rhood Commercial' to
'Residential Medium Density' and the zoning map from NC (Neighborhood Commercial) to RM
(Residential Multi-Family) is generally compatible with the city's long-range vision and goals f or the
area for the following reasons:

    •   Single-family dwellings (attached) are permitted uses in the RM zone. Other than home
        occupations, no commercial or office uses are permitted in the proposed zone without a
        conditional use permit.
                                                                                             Page4of7
                                                              Pla nning Commission -July 16, 2025
                                                        Proj ect ZMA-25-003 - 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

   •   The designated land use of many nearby properties along Bengal Blvd and the surrounding
       vicinity is also Residential Medium Density.
   •   While no property in the vicinity is zoned RM, many properties are zoned R-2-8, another
       multifamily zone. These nearby properties contain a similar density of dwelling units to
       what is being proposed here.
   •   This property is the on ly parcel on the north side of Bengal Blvd. in the vicinity zoned and
       designated as Neighborhood Commercial.
   •   The NC zone allows residential uses under the ' Neighborhood Mixed Use' category within
       allowed conditional uses. A development of this type would likely entail a more intensive
       land use for the property, with a simi lar number of residential units, compared to what the
       applicant wishes to eventually develop.
   •   While detailed development plans are not a part of this proposal, RM zoning standards
       would still apply to any development applied for on the property, such as minimum lot
       sizes, minimum lot widths, setbacks, maximum height, lot coverage, and open space
       requirements (see attached §19.34 RM zoning code).



Procedure

Zoning map amendments and general plan amendments are legislative actions, meaning that the
Planning Commission's authority is to take public comment, discuss the merits of the proposal,
and make recommendations to the City Council. The City Counc il is the final approval authority for
this application.

Chapter 19.90.070 of the Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code details the procedure for general
plan amendments:

       19.90.070 General Plan Amendment; Procedure
       The city council may amend the general plan. A proposed amendment to the general plan
       shall not be made or become effective unless it is first presented to the planning
       commission and, before making its recommendation concerning the proposed
       amendment, the planning commission holds a public hearing on the proposed
       amendment preceded by all required public notice. The planning commission thereafter
       shall forward the proposed amendment and its recommendation concerning it to the city
       council.


Chapter 19.90.010 of the Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code details the procedure for zoning
map amendments:

       19.9D.1DAmendment Procedure.
       A. The city council may, from time to time, amend the number, shape, boundaries or area
           of any zone or any regulation within any zone or any other provisions of the zoning
           ordinance. The city council may not make any amendment authorized by this
           section unless the amendment is proposed by the planning commission or was
           first submitted to the planning commission for its recommendation. To become
           effective, zoning amendment applications which have received the positive

                                                                                             Page 5 of 7
                                                             Planning Commission -July 16, 2025
                                                       Project ZMA-25-003- 3425 E. Bengal Blvd .

            recommendation of the planning commission must first receive the favorable vote
            of not less than a majority of the entire membership of the city council.
         B. Zoning amendment applications which receive a recommendation of denial by the
            planning commission shall thereafter be considered by the city council.... The city
            council, after review of the recommendation by the planning commission, may affirm,
            reverse, alter or remand for further review and consideration any recommendations
            made by the planning commission.


Further, Chapter 19.90 establishes minimum timelines that require at least one year after Council
disapproval of a rezone and/or general plan amendment application before an application can be
made for the same zone classification again (19.90.050 I 19.90.100).

The subject application is compliant with the above codified requirements.




Noticing
Notices were posted and mailed at least 10 days prior to the meeting. Individual letters were mails
to property owners within 1000' feet of the subject property, and a public notice sign was posted on
the property. Returned notices and a list of all noticed properties have been kept by staff.



Findings
Findings of fact include:

   1. A public hearing is being held in accordance with local and state requirements;
   2. The proposed zoning designation is compatible with the surrounding developed area, and
      with the underlying land use designation of the subject property;
   3. The public will not be materially injured by the proposed amendment, and staff has
      determined there is good cause for the amendment.




Recommendation & Model Motions
Based on the findings and analysis presented herein, staff recommends that the Planning
Commission forward a recommendation of approval of project ZMA-25-003 to the City Council
(Note-two separate motions and votes will be required - one for the proposed land use map
amendment, and one for the proposed zone map amendment. Both projects have the same project
reference number).

Approval

I move to recommend approval of project ZMA-25-003 to the City Council based on the findings and
recommendations listed in the staff report dated July 16, 2025...

    •    List any additional findings or recommendations for approval...

Denial


                                                                                         Page 6 of 7
                                                          Plann ing Comm ission -July 16, 2025
                                                    Project ZMA-25-003 - 3425 E. Bengal Blvd .

I move to recommend denial of project ZMA-25-003 to the City Council based on the following
findings:

   •   List findings for denial ...



ATTACHMENTS

   •   Applicant's Narrative
   •   Town home Development Conceptual Designs
   •   RM (Residential Multifamily) Zoning Code




                                                                                      Page 7 of 7
Written Narrative Dated June 16, 2025.

   1. Description of the overall rationale or intention of the project:

       Brighton Lofts, LLC requests a rezone of the property at 3425 East Bengal Blvd (.485
       acres) from NC (Neighborhood Commercial) to RM (Residential Multi-family). A
       depiction of the property is attached.


       The current NC zoning of the property has proven a failure, resulting in a property
       with a vacant building and no viable commercial prospects. Proximity to Brighton
       Point shopping center has not proven helpful as it is offset from the Center and
       across the street. A rezone of the property is needed in order to put the property to
       beneficial use, and eliminate the blight that the current zoning has created .

       We request that the property be changed to the RM zone. The property is surrounded
       by residential uses. And the RM zone exists in several nearby locations of the same
       type. Brighton Lofts, LLC proposed a modest density of six town home units on the
       property. These will be brick brownstone townhomes perpendicular to Bengal
       Boulevard, and facing the public street of Oak Shadows Circle, as shown on the
       attached drawing. Brighton Lofts, LLC intends to keep the sales price in the
       attainable range for Cottonwood Heights.


    2. Benefit to the City:
       This zoning change will benefit Cottonwood Heights City for the following reasons:

       a.     The rezone will eliminate a mis-zoned property that is unusable currently and
       creating a blight on the neighborhood.

       b.     The rezone will convert the property to a use that is more compatible with
       surrounding uses.

       c.     The rezone will result in a beautiful development on the property that wilt
       improve Bengal Boulevard and positively affect nearby property values.

       d.     The rezone wilt contribute to the attainable housing stock in Cottonwood
       Heights City, is to benefit the city with added housing stock at an attainable price,
       without a large increase in density.
3.   Original codified zone of NC: Brighton Lofts, LLC believes that the current NC zone
     was not selected by Cottonwood Heights, but a holdover from the County zoning at
     the time of annexation. It may have been adequate in the past, but even a bank has
     been unable to remain viable in the location. It is unlikely to any other commercial
     use will have a different outcome, because of this site's non-prime location. Non-
     prime retail space has a vacancy rate of 23.8% while prime retail space enjoys a
     vacancy rate of 4.4%.


4. Benefit to the community as a whole: Bengal Boulevard is part of the heart of
     Cottonwood Heights. Long experience has provided all of the information that is
     needed. We know what works and what does not work on Bengal Boulevard. If NC
     worked at this location, rezoning would not be a question. However, as
     demonstrated by many other properties along Bengal Boulevard, RM zoning works.
     The development planned here is low density, and low burden on the City, while
     providing many benefits, and a beautiful new use at the property that the City can be
     proud of.
7/11/25, 6:59 PM                                                             Print Preview


 19.34 RM - Residential Multi-Family Zone
 19.34.010 Pumose Of Chapter
 19.34.020 Permitted Uses
 19.34.030 Conditional Uses
 19.34.040 Minimum Lot Size
 19.34.050 Minimum Lot Width
 19.34.060 Setbacks/Yard Reguirements
 19.34.070 Maximum Height Of Structures
 19.34.080 Maximum Lot Coverag§.
 19.34.090 O12en Space Reguirement
 19.34.100 Master Develo12ment Plan Reguired

 19.34.010 PurP-ose Of ChaP-ter

 The purpose of the RM zone is to provide areas in the city for high-density residential development.

 19.34.020 Permitted Uses

 Permitted uses in the RM zone are as follows:

       A. Single-family dwellings, attached or detached ;
       B. Accessory buildings customary to multi-family and single-family residential buildings; and
       C. Home occupations.

 19.34.030 Conditional Uses

 Conditional uses in the RM zone are as follows:

       A. Bed and breakfast;
       B. Churches;
       C. Day care/pre-school , as allowed by the applicable accessory regulations in Chapter 19.76,
          "Supplementary and Qua lifying Regulations";
       D. Dwelling group, provided that;
                   1. The parcel of ground on which the dwelling group (as defined in Chapter 19.04,
                      "Definitions") is to be erected shall have an area equal to the aggregate of the minimum
                      lot areas otherwise required in the zone for the number of individual dwelling structures
                      in the group.
                   2. The distance between principal buildings shall be equal to the total side yards required in
                      the zone. The distance between principal buildings and the nearest perimeter lot line
                      shall be at least 15 feet. The distance between any bu ilding and a public street shall be
                      at least the front yard required in the zo ning district, except on corner lots the side yard
                      which faces on a pub lic street shall be at least 20 feet.
                   3. Access sha ll be provided by a private street or right-of-way from a public street; such
                      private street or right-of-way shall be at least 20 feet wide for one or two rear dwelling
                      units and at least 30 feet wide for three or more dwelling units.
                   4. A minimum of two parking spaces shall be provided for each dwelling unit. Parking
                      spaces and veh icu lar maneuvering areas shall meet city standards.

https://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=19.34_RM_-_Residential_Multi-Family_Zone   1/4
7 /11 /25, 6:59 PM                                                               Print Preview

                     5. Every dwelling structure in the dwelling group shall be within 60 feet of an access
                        roadway or drive.
                     6. The development plan shall provide a buffer landscaped area along all property lines
                        and decorative landscaping adjacent to the buildings in appropriate locations. Solid
                        visua l fences shall be provided along all interior property lines unless the planning
                        commission approves otherwise.

        E. Golf course;
        F. Hospital;
        G. Hotel;
        H. Lodging house;
          I. Multiple unit dwellings, either apartments or condominiums;
         J. Nursing home;
        K. Offices, professions and general business;
         L. Planned unit development;
        M. Private parks and recreational grounds;
        N. Public and quasi-public use;
        0. Radio and/or television tower;
        P. Temporary structures, as allowed by the applicable accessory regulations in Chapter 19.76,
           "Supplementary and Qualifying Regulations";
        Q. Two-family dwellings;
        R. Utility stations and lines, as allowed by the applicable accessory regulations in Chapter 19.76,
           "Supplementary and Qualifying Regulations"; and
        S. Public schools.

 19.34.040 Minimum Lot Size

 The minimum lot size in the RM zone is 10,000 square feet for each single-family or two-family
 dwelling, with 2,000 extra square feet for each additional unit in a building with more than one unit.

 19.34.050 Minimum Lot Width

 The minimum lot width in the RM zone is 65 feet measu red 30 feet from the front lot line.

  19.34.060 SetbacksNard Reguirements

        A. Setbacks/yard requ irements are intended to provide a description of the required space
           between buildings and property lines. Primary buildings shall maintain a minimum distance from
           property lines as follows:

             Front: 30 feet.
             Sides: On interior lots, a total of at least 25 feet between th e two side yards, with no side yard of
             less than ten feet. On corner lots, at least 30 feet on the street side and at least 10 feet on the
             interior side.


hltps ://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name= 19.34_RM_-_Residential_ Multi-F amily_ Zone   2/4
7/11/25, 6:59 PM                                                               Print Preview

           Rear: 30 feet.

       B. Accessory buildings in the RM zone shall maintain a minimum distance from property lines as
          follows:

           Front: Accessory buildings, excluding garages, shall maintain a setback of at least six feet from
           primary buildings in the rear yard for the particular property.
           Sides: Five feet, excluding garages, on interior lots; 20 feet on street side of corner lots.
           Rear: Five feet, exclud ing garages, on interior lots; 20 feet on corner lots. Attached garages
           shall conform to the rear yard requirements of main buildings. Detached garages shall conform
           to the rear yard requirements of accessory buildings, provided that the garage is in the rear yard
           and at least six feet away from the main building.
           Garages: The minimum side yard for a private garage shall be eight feet, except that private
           garages and other accessory buildings located in the rear yard and at least six feet away from
           the primary building shall maintain a minimum side yard of not less than five feet.

 HISTORY
 Amended by Ord. 429 on 11712025

 19.34.070 Maximum Height Of Structures

       A. For uses where the slope of the original ground surface is greater than 15%, or if a slope
          stability hazard is present on site, the maximum structure height shall be 30 feet.
        B. All other properties sh.all maintain a maximum structure height of 35 feet.
       C. Accessory Buildings.

            No accessory building shall exceed 20 feet in height. For each foot of height over 14 feet,
            accessory buildings shall be set back from property lines an additional foot from the minimum
            setback to allow a maximum height of 20 feet.

 HISTORY
 Amended by Ord. 412 on 4/9/2024

 19.34.080 Maximum Lot Coverag~

 The maximum lot coverage in the RM zone is 50%, including all structures, except portions of those
 properties also located in the Sensitive Lands Overlay Zone, for which the maximum lot coverage shall
 be 30% including all structures and impervious surfaces.

 HISTORY
 Amended by Ord. 412 on 419/2024

  19.34.090 Ogen Sgace Reguirement

  The minimum open space requ ireme nt for developments over two acres in the RM zone is 15%.

  19.34.100 Master Develogment Plan Reguired

  Any development of land in the RM zone shall be subject to the requirements of a master development
  plan approved by the planning commission.




 hltps://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name= 19.34_RM_-_ Residential_Multi-Family_Zone   3/4
7/11/25, 6:59 PM                                                                 Print Preview




https://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline. com/book/print?type=ordinances&name= 19 .34_RM_-_ Residential_ Multi-F amily_Zone   4/4
        Cottonwood Heights
        Cuy brtu~m 1hr rn11JYJ11J



