    Appendix 4

 STAFF REPORT
General Plan Update

     Jim Spung
                                                                                              Oia- 1,·
                                                                                                ~      ~o;~ood Heights
                                                                                                    C,ry l,,rmn-n ,Iv <Jnytm1




                             Business Meeting □
                             Yes D No ~ Undetermined D

 M Approval or Denial
                             CM Signature:


REQUEST
This is a city-initiated request that began in 2021 to update the city's General Plan . The General Plan is a
comprehensive, long-range policy document establishing the community's vision for land use, housing,
transportation, economic development, recreation, and sustainability for the next 10 to 20 years. The existing
General Plan was adopted shortly after the City's incorporation in 2005 and successfully focused on key
priorities and goals critical for a new municipality-many of which have been achieved. As the city continues
to grow, it now faces new opportunities and challenges brought on by shifting markets, new technology, and
increased development pressure.
To build on previous achievements and propel Cottonwood Heights forward, this updated plan, "Cottonwood
Heights Tomorrow - General Plan 2025," will provide innovative solutions and strategies that address the
City's evolving needs in the near- and long-term.

BACKGROUND

This project is a major undertaking requiring substantial community input and collaboration among a wide
range of Cottonwood Heights stakeholders. A series of online Public Engagement Meetings were held through
June 2021 to help determine key planning issues and identify the future vision and goals for the City. An online
platform provided various options for public comment and participation, including:

    o   A Visioning Survey to identify key issues and future visions;
    o   A Crowdsource Mapping Tool to locate specific needs, issues, and opportunities;
    o   A Community Idea Board to indicate likes and missing elements; and
    o   A Vision Confirmation Survey to verify goals and objectives.

Following public feedback at a Draft Open House in 2022, city staff revised and clarified the goals of the
General Plan and focused on the progress of the Town Center. Now as we resume progress on the General
Plan update, the city recognizes the importance of continued public engagement. Over the next few months,
city staff asks the City Council to review and provide input regarding the goals, objectives, strategies, and
vision derived from previous outreach efforts.

This Work Session discussion will focus on the first four chapters of the General Plan. Your input is crucial to
ensure the General Plan effectively guides the city's growth and development while aligning with Cottonwood
Heights' long-term vision. As you prepare for the meeting, we ask that you consider these questions, in
addition to others you may have, to help guide your thoughts.
   1.   Overview & Introduction. Summarizes the history and evolution of the city, explains the purpose of
        the General Plan, provides a demographic snapshot of the city, describes the community engagement
        process, and concludes with an overview of the community vision and future community goals
        reflected through public input.
        a. Does the draft plan effectively capture the stated vision, values, and big ideas developed earlier in
           the public outreach process?
        b. Does the plan establish a course for achieving the city's long-term goals for growth and
           development?
   2.   Land Use. Describes the future land use vision of the city, and an updated future land use map with
        descriptions of recommended land use categories. This chapter discusses general guidelines for future
        development and improvements.
        a. Is the proposed distribution and location of land uses representative of existing conditions and the
           city's desired future?
        b. Do the maps and supporting narrative clearly communicate proposed changes and future
           development patterns?
   3.   Moderate Income Housing Plan. Addresses future housing needs and requirements, including
        strategies for meeting State mandated affordability targets.
        a. This element was recently updated and adopted to align with the statutory requirements of Utah
           Code 10-9a-403.
        b. Generally, do the strategies align with the city's vision for supporting and promoting moderate-
           income housing?
   4.   Transportation. Outlines specific actions and goals for meeting current and future transportation
        demands. The chapter includes a concept for addressing local transportation needs and mitigating
        regional impacts that are aligned with the land use, housing, and economic goals of the city.
        a. Does the plan accurately capture the city's vision for the next 10-20 years regarding improvements
            and changes to the city's transportation infrastructure (i.e., roads, public transit, pedestrian, and
            bike networks)?
        b. Does the transportation plan effectively complement the proposed land use patterns to create a
           coordinated and functional system?



RECOMMENDATION

Discussion item only.



Attachments:

None.
   Cottonwood Heights
   C11y b(lu'<m 1hr mn,o,u



