      Appendix 4

   STAFF REPORT
Chicken Coops Discussion

       Jim Spung
Date: November 18, 2025
Re: ZTA-25-004- Chicken Coop Setback


                             Business Meeting D    Work Session ~     Other D
Public Hearing Needed?       Yes D No ~ Undetermined D
                             Denied D Appro                      D
                             CM Signature: _


REQUEST
This is a city-initiated text update to Chapter 8.13 (Chickens) of the Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code. The
proposed amendment reduces the minimum setback for chicken coops and enclosures from 40 feet to 25 feet
from neighboring homes. It also includes new enforcement language allowing the city to revoke a chicken-
keeping permit if a property receives three confirmed violations. All other rules about keeping chickens,
including location, sanitation, and coop construction, remain the same.

BACKGROUND

The city's current chicken-keeping rules allow residents to keep a limited number of chickens while
maintaining neighborhood compatibility and protecting public health. The code currently requires chicken
coops to be at least 40 feet from neighboring homes. Public feedback suggests the 40-foot setback is too
restrictive for many standard-sized lots, making it difficult for residents to build compliant chicken coops.
Reducing the setback to 25 feet provides more flexibility for small-scale chicken keeping while respecting
neighboring property.

RECOMMENDATION

The Planning Commission voted to recommend APPROVAL of the proposed amendments with a 6-0 vote.



Attachments:
   1. Draft Changes
8.13.010 Requirements For Keeping Chickens

   A. It is unlawful for any person to keep within the city any chickens without first making
      application for and obtaining a permit from the city to do so. The fee for such a
      permit shall be as specified in the city's consolidated fee schedule. Although
      chickens may kept as provided in this chapter, they shall not be deemed as
      household or domestic pets.

   B. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any chicken in a manner contrary to the
      provisions of thi s chapter. Any such violation shall be a class B misde meanor.

   C. Chickens may be kept on a non-nuisance basis for familial gain from the production
      and consumption of eggs.

   D. Up to six egg-laying hens and up to four chicks may be kept on a residential lot.

   E. Roosters and crowing hens are prohibited.

   F. Location.

          1. Chickens may only be kept on a property containing a single-family detached
             residence or on a contiguous, vacant property under common ownership
             with that residence.

          2. All enclosures, pens and coops shall be located in the rear yard of the main
             dwelling or in an interior side yard in full compliance with this chapter.

          3. Enclosures, pens and coops shall not be located in a corner side yard unless
             the side yard is completely fenced using site-obscuring fencing or vegetative
             screening, so as to prevent sight of such areas from the street or neighboring
             properties to the greatest degree possible.

          4. All enclosures, pens and coops shall be located at least 4-6 25 feet from all
             dwellings (as the same may exist from time to time) on all adjoinin g
             properties and at least th-fee-ten feet from the property line, provided that a
             portable wheeled coop may encroach temporarily and from time to time on
             the three-ten foot separation from the property line. During the time a heating
             device is employed in the pen or coop during cold weather, such pen or coop
             must be se parated by at lea st ten feet from any structure containing a
             habitable dwelling on the sa me property.

  G. All pens and coops shall be maintained in a clean, sanitary condition and in
      compliance with all applicable health regulations. Without limiting the generality of
      the foregoing statement:
           1. All droppings within the coop and the enclosure shall be cleaned out at least
              once a week;

           2. Coops must be thoroughly cleaned with a standard disinfectant at least once
              per calendar quarter;

           3. Coops and related structures must be kept free from standing water and
              odor-free; and

           4. Dead birds and unused eggs shall be removed within 24 hours or less and
              shall be properly discarded.

           5. All feed shall be stored in containers preventing intrusion by rodents and
              other vermin.

   H. Coop and enclosure.

           1. A coop is required to keep chickens. The coop shall be constructed such that
               it provides adequate shelter and space for chickens to roost with at least
               three square feet per chicken . If the chickens are not allowed to roam outside
               the coop, the coop shall have a minimum floor area of six square feet per
               chicken .

           2. If a fenced enclosure for chickens is provided, the enclosure must consist of
               sturdy¼" hardware cloth wire fencing buried at least two feet vertically into
               the ground, with an additional two feet bent outwards, from the vertical
               element, to be parallel to the ground and underground. The use of flimsy wire
               mesh, including chicken wire, is not permitted in the construction of a
               domestic fowl coop, fence or enclosure.

   I.   The city may enter upon the premises for the purpose of inspecting the fowl, the
        coop and related improvements.

8.13.020 Chicken-Keeping Permit

   A. Any person who desires to keep chickens as authorized by this chapter shall make
        application to the division, on a city-approved form, for a chicken permit.

   B. The application shall include the following information:

           1. The name, address and other contact information of the person desiring the
              chicken keeping permit.
           2. The location of chicken pens or coops, including a plat showing the parcel
              and neighboring properties, property lines, and the locations of the coop,
              pen, enclosure and nearby dwellings.

           3. Basic plans and specification of the proposed coop, pen and enclosure,
              showing size and dimensions.

           4. The distance between the location of the proposed pen or coop and the
              nearest dwelling on all adjoining lots.

           5. A statement irrevocably granting unto the city permission to enter upon the
              premises for the purpose of inspecting the fowl, pen, coop, enclosure and all
              related improvements.

           6. Any other information required by the city.

   C. Upon receipt of the application, the city shall inspect the applicant's premises to
       verify compliance with this chapter. The permit shall be issued if the city determines
       that the applicant can and will comply with all regulations pertaining to owning
       chickens.

   D. The chicken keeping permit shall expire on June 30th, but may be renewable on a
       yearly basis thereafter upon application to and approval by the city as provided in
       this chapter.

   E. The rights under the permit transfer to a successor owner of the premises until the
       following June 30th, whereupon the permit is subject to renewal as provided in this
       section.

8.13.030 - Enforcement and Revocation of Perm it

A. The city may investigate any alleged violation of this chapter upon observation or receipt
of a complaint. A violation shall be considered "verified" when confirmed by c ity staff
through inspection or other credible evidence.

B. If a property receives three or more verified vio lations of any provision of this chapter
wit hin any twelve-month period. the city may revoke the chicken-keeping permit following
written notice to the permit holder.

C. Upon revocation. the permit holder shall remove all chickens from the property within
thirty (30) calendar days of the date of notice. A revoked permit shall rema in invalid for the
remainde r of the current city yea r (July 1 through June 30).
D. A revoked permit holder may reapply for a new permit after one full year has passed from
the date of revocation.

E. Nothing in this section shall preclude the city from pursuing additional enforcement
remedies as authorized under this code. including issuance of citations for individua l
violations.
   ottonwood Heights
  Ciry bttwfm 1hr r,mJYJm



