                       Appendix 4

                    STAFF REPORT
General Plan Presentation and Discussion with City Council
                and Planning Commission

                        Jim Spung
Public Hearing Needed?         Yes D No IXI Undetermined D
                               Denied D Approv
                               CM Signature: _

REQUEST
launched in 2021, this General Plan update aims to revise the city's long-term policy framework for land use, housing,
transportation, economic development, and recreation for the next 10-20 years. The current plan, adopted in 2005,
successfully addressed key priorities, many of which have already been achieved. As the city evolves and faces new
challenges and opportunities, an updated General Plan will act as a policy guide to shape the future of the city.

BACKGROUND
A series of online Public Engagement Meetings were held in early 2021 to help determine key planning issues and identify
the future vision and goals for the City. An online platform provided various options for public comment and participation,
including:

    o   A Visioning Survey to identify key issues and future visions;
    o   A Crowdsource Mapping Tool to locate specific needs, issues, and opportunities;
    o   A Community Idea Board to indicate likes and missing elements; and
    o   A Vision Confirmation Survey to verify goals and objectives.

Following public feedback at an Open House in 2022, the General Plan Draft was updated but lost momentum as staff
shifted focused and resources to the Town Center project and Form-Based Code. We are now resuming progress on the
General Plan update.

On October 7, 2025, the City Council and Planning Commission met in a joint work session to review the draft General
Plan, which was developed based on prior public outreach efforts. Subcommittees were formed for each General Plan
element to develop a clear mission statement and 3-5 specific goals. The City Council and Planning Commission
reconvened on December 2, 2025, to review the subcommittees' findings and agreed that more time was needed to refine
the mission statements, goals, and strategies. The group agreed to reconvene on January 20, 2026, to review and discuss.

Today's work session will focus on reviewing the subcommittee efforts to reach general consensus on the vision and goals
for each General Plan element. We will also define a clear path forward for preparing the draft General Plan for formal
adoption. In addition to finalizing the core elements of the plan, we will discuss the public engagement process moving
forward. Meaningful public input is essential to ensure the General Plan reflects the community's values and priorities.

RECOMMENDATION
Discussion item only.

ATTACHMENTS
Draft Vision Statements, Goals, and Strategies (tracked changes)
Draft Vision Statements, Goals, and Strategies (clean)
NOTE: This document Includes tracked-changes from the document shared with the Planning
Commission and City Council during the last Joint Work Session on December 2, 2025.



                                                                                                                                  Commented [JS1]: General Comment:
ILAND USE                    '-
                               _ ____________________________/                                                                    #1 Update overall mission statement for entire
                                                                                                                                  document to reflect the revised mission statements and
                                                                                                                                  goals in this document. We'll probably need to revisit
                                                                                                                                  the mission statement a few more times before it's
         'jCottonwood Heights           ill promote thoughtful, targeted development that strengthens our                         final.
         city, protects private property rights, drives economic opportunities, and helps create a
                                                                                                                              " - Commented [JS2]: Make sure terminology is
         vibrant and distinctive sense ofplace for residents and landowners. The city will facilitate the                         consistent throughout (i.e .. naming of city and
         improvement of multimodal connections between homes, businesses, and recreational                                        capitalizations. etc.)

         areas. The city will foster a strong local economy, vibrant commercial districts, and a
         community-oriented Towne Center. Clear and purposeful land use designations will guide
         development in a way that enhances property values and aligns with the city's long-term
         vision. By streamlining development processes, collaborating with public and private
         partners, and leveraging city-owned assets, the Cottonwood Heights will create a more
         connected, accessible, and prosperous future for residents, landowners, businesses, and
         visitors."

1. Targeted, High-Quality Development and Redevelopment
    The city will work toward focusing growth and reinvestment in strategic areas to support community
    character mixed-use development and overall development quality Zoning updates and targeted
    incentives may be considered to help guide redevelopment and advance economic and place-making
    obiectjyes,l'he eiry .vill focu3 gro.,th 11Me1 rei11,e3tn,ent i11 3tr11tegic !lre!l3 to 311 engthen eon,rnun it)
    Ch!lI8Cter, 3Upport !l n,ix of U3e3, 81'1d el'l3Urc high C!Ulllity de,eloprncRt. Updeted l0l'lir'ig !lnd t!lrgeted
    i11teI1ti,e3 iiill guide rede ,elop111cnt lh!lt dcli,cr3 l83til'lg CCOMOl'I lie and place n,!lkil Ig be11cfit3.



    Key Actions:
    o Prioritize development and redevelopment in targeted areas.
    o     Update zoning code to provide more high-quality development outcomes.
    o     Encourage reinvestment in underutilized commercial areas and aging properties.
    o     Provide incentives for projects that align with citywide planning goals.
    o     Promote development that supports a mix of uses where appropriate.

2. Streamlined, Predictable, and Fair Development Processes
     Cottonwood Heights aims to modernize its development review procedu res to promote clarity fairness
     and efficiency for applicants and residents eotton .. oed I leight3 ,viii moderniie it3 de,elopn,rnt re,ie,1
     proceduIe3 to pI o,ide II eleer, IBir, end efficient p,oec33 for !lpplie11nt3 11nd re3ide11t3. Objective
     standards and improved coordination will reduce delays and create greater predictability.

     Key Actions:


DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Pten--t£llml Missio n Statement & Goals - 1 2 . 0 2 . 2 0 2 5               Page l   ot 20
     o     Simplify t he development review process to reduce delays and increase transparency.
     o     Remove outdated, redundant, or unclear regulations that do not contribute to health, safety, or
           welfare.
     o     Establish clear, objective approval standards to p rotect private property rights and reduce
           uncertainty.
     o     Create fast-t rack development review pathways for projects compliant with adopted land use maps
           and zoning.
     o     Improve coordination among city departments to enhance customer service and efficiency.


3.   Strengthen Neighborhood Character and Land Use Compatibility
     New development will enhance neighborhood character through context-sensitive design, appropriate
     transitions, and pedestrian-friendly site layouts. This approach will ensure infill and redevelopment
     contribute positively to the city's unique sense of place.


     Key Actions:
     o     Support development that fosters the future vision of the city and its unique sense of place.
     o     Encourage developers to implement context-sensitive transitions using buffering, landscaping,
           building massing, and site design. [Mitigating secondary impacts].
     o     Promote walkability, pedestrian-friendly design, and connections within and between
           neighborhoods.
     o     Encourage infill development that aligns with the city's future vision.


4. Expand Connectivity and Access to Community Amenities
     The City will support and pmsue improvements to multimodal connections between homes
     businesses and recreation areas to strengthen mobility and access Tt.e city .. ill in,provc 11 ,ultimod11l
     connections beh,ecn homes, b~sinesses, 11nd reerc11tiOJ'l areas to strengthen mobilit~ and aeees3.
     Investments in trails, transit partnerships, and public ame nities will create a more integrated and
     accessible community.


     Key Actions:
     o     Improve pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure, including trails, sidewalks, and safe crossings.
     o     Coordinate with public agencies to expand transit access and improve system integration.
     o     Leverage city-owned or public lands to increase parks, civic amenities, and trail linkages.
     o     Pursue grants and partnerships for land acquisition, open space, and recreation improvements.


5.   Support a Resilient, Diverse, and Vibrant Local Economy
     Cottonwood Heights aims to strengthen key commercial districts and support the creation of flexible
     innovative spaces that contribute to business attraction and retention Economic development
     strategies may be used to support residents. visitors employees and long-term fiscal
     sustainability Cotttrnu.ood I leigh13 will reinloree kei eommerei!ll di3triet3 !lnd lo3terflexible , inne,!ltive
     sp11ecs lh11t 111tr11et 1111d ret11i11 businesses. Str11tcgie eeo,,0J'l1ic development efforts "ill support
     reside, ,13, visitors, c,, ,plo1ees, Hnd lo, ,g tern, fise!ll 3U3tllinllbilit~ .


DRAFT    Cottonwood Heights General   Ptttn-tflan.l.   Mission Statement &   Goats - 12.02.2025               Page 2   of 20
    Key Actions:
    o    Reinforce key economic centers on the east and west sides of the city.
    o    Develop the Towne Center as a community-oriented hub with neighborhood-serving businesses.
    o    Encourage flexible commercial spaces such as incubators, mixed-use buildings, and startup-
         friendly environments.
    o    Promote development in areas with visibility and traffic patterns that support economic success.
    o    Strengthen relationships with business owners, developers, and regional economic partners.
    o    Coordinate early with public stakeholders on major projects affecting city residents.


6. Embedding Sustainability into Growth and Development Patterns [sustainability]
    The city intends to guide its pursuit of sustainability by promoting compact walkable and well-
    connected development patterns that minimize environmental impacts and reduce re liance on
    automobiles The City's approach aims to balance redevelopment and housing diversity with the
    protection of natural resources and the preservation of Cottonwood Heights' distinctive community
    character
    " Support and encourage growth towa rd compact walkable mixed-use infill and redevelopment in
        activity centers corridors and transit-served areas to reduce environmental impacts and
        intrastructLU:.e..Cll.Sls,
    o Promote land use patterns that reduce vehicle dependence shorten trip lengths and support daily
        needs within close proximity
    " Seek to protect open space foothHls riparian corridors sensitive habitats and natural lands
        .Ihm.ugh land use designations development standards and conservation practices
    " Encourage sustainable site planning and building design including orientation for passive solar
        gain reduced impervious surfaces and integration of low-impact landscaping
    " Support a range of housing types that meet the needs of all lite stages and income levels while
        efficiently using land and infrastructure
    o Encourage connectivity between developments and surrounding neighborhoods emphasizing
        pedestrian bicycle and trail connections
    n Strive to balance redevelopment and intensification with design compatibilitythat respects
        neighborhood character and Cottonwood Heights' identity




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Ptefl-tElau.J. Mission Statement & Goals - 12.02.2025            Page J oi 20
                                                                                                                                                 /   Commented [JS3): Other comments:
~RANSPORTATION~
              I -                                                                -            _ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ _ _ _ /
                                                                                                                                                     #1 address maintenance and commitments to existing
                                                                                                                                                     infrastructure (don't overextend ourselves or over
                                                                                                                                                     promise new ideas).
                                                                                                                                                     #2 possibly set aside funding for future studies to
          "Provide asafe balanced and multimodal transportation svstem that supports Cottonwood                                                      address more specific needs.
          Hei~ts' quality of lite protects neightmrhood character strengthens economic vitality. iJ1lJ.i                                             #3 capture resiliency, environmental concerns. and
                                                                                                                                                     financial realities in mission, goals, and policies.
          responsibly manages regiooal and canvon-retated travel while imp_roving mobility for
          residents of all ages and abilities "{Citizen engagement during foundational conceotslflte
          ffli33iBR Bf GBIIBRhBBEI l.'eit/'118' n/lll3fl611tln"6R 3")31effl is 16 ,eEluee se,iBU3 iflju,ies BREI
          ltJltllilies I,) Elesig,tiRg safe, effieieRI, MEI aeeessill,'e "a")s fe, e,e, 7BRe 16 1,a,e,' ,,hellie,
          1>11/kiRg, /JikiRg, 16/{iRg, HikiRg I. /lll3il, B, d, ioiRg. We 31, ,-, e IB C6flf!ee I Reig/J/J(jj /imJE/3, fllli ks,
          3CR66l3, /Jusiflesses, llflEI ,egi6flll{ Eles lif1Mi6fl3, irieluEliRg lhe b½sale/i CM)Bfl3, ,,hile
          weser.irig eu, meurittJiR eh11,11ete, BREI suppertirig ll oi/J,arit, health"), ariEI ,esi/iellt
          eenirmmity. "




4.---.lmprove Safety for all Users of the Transportation SystertLPron,ote 8 S8fe Tr8nsportetion                                                      Formatted: Justified, Right 0.5", Space Before: 12 pt,
    Sy3tem t hat Red11ce3 Serio113 Inj uries and Fata!itie3                                                                                          After: 12 pt, Numbered+ level: 1 + Numbering Style:
                                                                                                                                                     1, 2. 3, ... + Start at 1 + Alignment: left+ Aligned at
                                                                                                                                                     0" + Indent at 0.25"
    Create 3aler streets by designing reado,ays that reduce crashes, lo .. er speeds where
    eppropriete, and protect e,e1yo1, e wl,ether tl,ey are .. alki11g, biki11g, 1olli11g, ridi11g transit, or
    driving-:
    Objectives
        1 Reduce serious injuries and fatalities within Cottonwood Heights' boundary
        2 Adopt Safe Systems Approach (SSA) prioritizing projects and poUcy that measurably
            improve safety
       +.-Design streets that create visual friction and reduce conflict between vehicles
            pedestrians bicyclists and transit


    Kei Action3£olicie.s.:
          Apply safe by design pri neiple3 to ell 3treet projects, .. ith 3peciel focus on intersections and
          higt1 rislt corridors Policy 1,1: Prioritize safety improvements in transportation planning design
          and capital investment decisions ~
          P1anege ,chicle speeds through design , sig11Bge, a11d co11text appropriete treffie cBln,ing.
          Elilicy_L2:..SIJ.pport street desigo.s..and traffic management strategies that reduce vehicle speeds
          where appropriate, particularly near neighborhoods schools, parks and commercial areas
          Policy 1 3· Priorilife impre,ements in leeatiens "il h a llistery ol erashes or near selleels, parks,
          and busy crossings.
          Incorporate pedestrian and bicycle safety considerations into roadway intersection and
          redevelopment proiects




DRAFT   Cottonwood Heights General    Pttltt-tflan.1   Mission S   t atement &   Goals -12.02 . 2025                          Page 4   ot   20
    ,a,---Provide a Balanced Transpomtion System that.S.upp_oJ1s..M.ulliple Modes otTrav~lStre11gthen
          p111tner3t,ips .uith UDOT, 18~~ enforcement, schools, Bnd co111mtinity groups to support s11fety
          initieti,eJ.
    &--UJe date to guide deciJionJ, includingcreJll petternJ, tre,el behe,ior, end eon,munity
       concernJ.

2. EnhBnce Connection3 "ithi11 the City 811d Regio1111l De31i1111tions


    Improve ho.v people n,o,e arou11d Cotton.vood I leigl,ts by strengthening H11ks bet.. ccn neighborhoods,
    parks, seheels, llusinesses, anEI fflBjer reereatien BreBs !ilw the ''°''oso!eA ean~ens.Objectives·
          1 Expand opportunities tor walking bicycling and transit as viable travel options
          Ll!I\prove trail and sidewalk connections between and wjthjn neighborhoods for example
                   between school activity centers parks and regional destinations
          3        Improve trail and sidewalk connections between and within neighborhoods tor example
                   between school activity centers parks and regional destinations



    IEey ActionJ~:
          Policy 2,1: Plan and desiiw streets as multi modal facilities that consider pedestrians bicyclists,
          transit and vehicles
          2       IElentily fflisJing eenneetio,13 in siEte ..BlkJ, bike reutes, m1:1lli 1:1se ,iaths, BnEI tro11sitoeeess                                                                                                              7               Formatted: Indent Left 0.5", No bullets or
          Bnd inetlrperate theffl into ea,iitol ,ilanning.
          Policy 2,2· Improve connectivity of sidewalks trails and bikeways to create a more continuous and
          accessible network
                   1nnnoprtre'rloee-tifi.r,n~kss-ttto~r-.ec~gio.r,n1111hl
          ,ae,----11                                           fi                                                                                                                                                 ., -bbttu.,.srt,ottutttce;s".+'- -
                                                                        drf1c!!!J1ttiifl1111atttioo-,r,,,3",-i1i111t,c~lttuddii.r,n~g-ec1tall'nytttei t,il'lt:Nra,iiltlhnec11at!d.,.s11all'ndf!-t,rc,.g,i,io:11n,-11t!-l                               j Formatted: Indent Left: o.s •. N bullets or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        O

        Policy 2 3· Coordinate transp,onation improvements with transit providers to enhance access to
        regional transit services
    e--GeerEtino!e .. iltt regienol ,iortners te ens1:1fe fflojer eerrider plans im,ire,e oeeeJJ lhre1:1gh and
        .. itttin Gel!e,weed I leigh!s.
    ,;---lntegfOle .. oyfinding, signoge, onEI Elesign eleffleRtJ that hel,i ,ieo,ile no,igote !he eeffiffiuni~ fflere
          =itr,
    e--SupptJrt deocltJpmcnt p11ttcrns tl,ot in,pro,e internal circulation 111,d reduce barriers bch~ecR
       ncighborl,oods.



3   Protect Neighborhood UyabHity while Managing Traffic Provide Acces3ible, Reli11ble, 1111d lnclusi~e
    Tr11uel Options for All Ages 1111d Abilities


    Ens1:1fe fesiflcnts el oil ages oru:! abilities eon tro,el eemfertolll'y and feliolll~ lly ollefing o ,ariety el
    aeeessillle o,iliens, ir,eluding .. atking, biking, transit, rnlling, and driving.Objectives·
          1 Minimize cut-through.lraffic in residential neighborhoods
          2, Preserve neigtlborhood character while maintaining reasonable access and mobility


DRAFT   Cottonwood Heights General                         flltln-tflfill.1          Mission S t atement &                  Goals -12. 02.2025                                                                    Page      5   of 20
         3         Balance mobility on major corridors with access to adjacent neighborhoods and businesses.

                                                                                                                              •· -   -   Formatted : List Paragraph, Indent: Left: 0.75"


    l(ey Aetions£.o.licie.s:
         Policy 3.1: Use traffjc calming o□ erationat strategies and street design to discourage
         inappropriate through-traffic in residential areas
         Policy 3.2: Eyatuate transportation projects for their potential impacts on neighborhood oualjty of
         1if.e..
         Policy 3.3: Balance roadway capacity access and safety in corridor planning and jmproyement
         Jllille.c1s...
    e--EFthaFtee ADA Beeessibili!y iFt all pedestfiBFt 61jd lfBfl3it felBted f)fBjeets.
    e--'.Vofk "ith UTA to impmve tfaFtsit fe liability, stop BmeFtities, aFtd loeal cenFtectioRS.
    &-ExpaFtd aeti ve tfansportation netu~ofl<s (iVBlking, biking, mlling) "ith eomloft aFtd aeeessibility in
         ffltfttt:
    .,.........[ns11rc 1,eoo de~elopmentincorpor11tes 11cces3ible site design 111,d mobility optio11s lo1111111sers.
    e---"Pron, ote eei11it11ble t, 1111sport11tion llcce3S, c3pecilllly for seni ors, yot1th, 11nd individt111ls "ith
         1nobilit1 clillllcngcs.


4. Address Regional and canyon-Related Travel Through Coordinated, Sustainable Solutions~
    WBll<Bllle, People Foet1se!I Acti vity 6er,ters
    Pmmote t fanspoftlltion impfovements 11181 n,ake the fooon CeRlef, Union Pafk, and othef aeti~ity afeas
    Sllfc, iVlllkllble, Md easy to navigate, strcngtl,cningeon,n,11niti i dentity 11nd suppo,t loelll
    businesses.Objectives·

         1 Manage regional and canyon-bound traffjc in a way that minimizes local impacts
         2.......lmprove travel reliability and safety on major corridors serving canyon access
         3 Support alternatives to single-occupancy vehicle travel tor regional trips


    l(cy Aetions£.o.licie.s:
         Policy4 1· Coordinate with state regional and transit partners on transportation solutions
         affecting canyon access and regional travel
         PoUcy 4.2: Advocate for transit travel demand management and mtJ(tjmodal strategies that
         reduce congestion and neighborhood impacts
         Policy 4 a· Consider the wm11Jative impacts of regional travel on City streets when evaJ11ating
         transportation improvements
    e--Pfi<lfiti~e pedeslfiBn fflendly street desigR ifl TowR CeRtef, URiOR PBfl<, GfBvel Pit, and othef aeti,icy
         eeAfet3,
    ",--[Reoufage mixed use and .. alkable de~elopmeRt l<lfms lhBt efellte lively, sale, people Ofiented
         ~




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General l'!tttt-tflan.l. Mission Statement & Goals -12.02.2025                            Page 6 of 20
    .,,..-In ,p,ove 11,ulti1,1odel eccos to ectivil'g ce1Hers, i,,cluding Yi8lki11g routes, bike eccos, end trensit
         connections .
    .,.-IReefperete pleee rnekiRg clcrncRts such es lightiflg, stFcct trees, public eft, eRd pcdestfieR
         erneflitics.
    €'--Ceerdiflete lend use end trenspertetien se eeti,it) centers e,el,e into eenRected, ettrecti,e
         destinations.


5. Align transportation Investments with land Use. Economic Resiliency. and Community
    .c&nt.ers.Strengthen t4eighborhood Li~ability and Long l'e1111 eon,nrnnity Resilience


    Invest in trensportetiern irnpre,ernents thet enhance Reigt,borhoed eiuelity el life tedey .,hile supperting
    e resilient, ,ibrent, end adaptable eernrnuRit) ferthc luturc ..Q.Qjectives:
         1 Support walkable accessible activity centers and corridors
         2 Use transportation investments to reinforce redevelopment and economic vitality
         3 Adapt transportation planning to changing travel patterns and economic conditions
                                                                                                                                 Formatted: List Paragraph, Indent: Left: 0.75"


    l(e, ActiOM£ll.li.cies:
         Policy5 1· Coordinate transportation planning with land use decisions particularly in designated
         corridors and activity centers
         Policy 5.2: Prioritize transportation improvements that enhance access to businesses
         employment areas and mixed-use developments
         Poljcy5.3: Support flexible transportation strategies that respond to evolving work shopping and
         travel patterns
    .,.-Support contc~t sensitive street irnproven ,ents lh!!t enhe1,ce cM ,fort end se!cty in reside11tiel
         ~

    -Invest in 1011g tern, corridor pten,,il,g 11,81 prioritites 1,eighborhood eiuelity of life end future n,obilit;,
         -neet!s,
    ;;,--Promote trensportetien choices that reduce cengestien afld suppeft cleafler, healthier air.
    e---~1eintein eRd upgrade infrastructure ifl e .,ey thetsupperts resilient, reliable tre,cl e,crtirne.
         Engage neighborlieods to underst!!l'IO local issues, il'I ,i,rove c011,n ,ul'licetiol'I Ol'l tr111,sportetio,,
         pl11nning, !!l'ld supi,oft cornrnunit:i drivel'! solutio11s.




G. Creating a Connected, Efficient, and Sustainable Transportation system [sustainabjljty]
   The city aims to develop a safe connected and multi modal transportation system that improves
   access to daily destinations and reduces reliance on sjngle-occupant vehicles. Complete streets
   efficient land use and coordinated investments will support mobility public health air Quality and
   tong-term community resilience
   o Improve multimodal connectivity between neighborhoods employment centers schools parks
        and commercial areas.



DRAFT Cottonwood Heighls General Pttttt-tEla.oJ. Mission Statement & Goals · 12.02.2025                           Page 7 of 20
    ~ign streets as complete streets that safely accommodate pedestriaas...llkl(C.li.sts. transit users
        anct vehicles of au ages and abilities
    0   Reduce reliance on single-occupant vehicles by supporting active transportation transit
         partnerships and improved transit amenities
    0    Encourage land use patterns that reduce trip lengths and vehicle miles traveled supporting
         healthier lifestyles..aruli.rn.p.ua.li.t)(..
    o Implement strategies to reduce vehicle idling especially near schools parks and high-activity
        .c.orrid.PCS..
    .-. Support reduced and shared parking approaches in appropriate locations to encourage alternative
        !raDsportation modes and more efficient land use
    o Integrate transportation investments with land use and economic development goals to improve
         overall system efficiency and resilience




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights Generalf'tftn-tfllln.l Mission Statement & Goals -12.02.2025          Page 8 of 20
                                                                                                                        Commented [JS4]: How can the city use events to
!ECONOMIC DEVELOPMEN                                                                                                    promote economic development (i.e., Christmas
                                                                                                                        markets, festivals, etc.)

         "Cottonwood Heights aims to build a forward-thinking economy grounded in resilience,
         innovation, and fiscal responsibility that benefits residents, businesses, and visitors alike.
         The city strives to attract and retain businesses that align with its vision of a vibrant, livable,
         and environmentally conscious community, balancing new growth with the careful
         stewardship of its unique mountain environment. Building on its strong reputation,
         Cottonwood Heights will remain a premier office destination, retail hub, and desirable
         residential community with a wide range of high-quality housing options that meet the
         changing needs of residen ts and the workforce."

1. Enhance Local Access to Goods, Services, and Experiences to Capture Sales Tax Revenue
   Ensure Cottonwood Heights provides a diverse range of essential goods, services, and recreational
   experiences that meet the needs of residents and visitors, while capturing sales tax dollars and
    minimizing leakage to neighboring jurisdictions. This includes prioritizing experiential and
    entertainment-based retail, local dining, and outdoor recreational amenities that attract both loca ls
    and tourists, strengthening the local economy.

    Key Actions:
    o    Foster partnerships with local and regional economic development organizations to promote the
         city as a premier destination for business.
    o    Develop and expand retail options that serve both daily needs and unique experience-driven
         offerings.
    o    Identify market gaps and strategic development opportunities to recapture sales tax revenue that
         currently flows to neighboring cities.
    o    Leverage the city's tourism assets, including Big and Little Cottonwood Canyons, to attract visitors,
         boost local retail sales, and draw employers who value access to outdoor recreation.
    o    Enhance amenities for outdoor recreation, including improved access to trailheads, parking, and
         shuttle services, to support both local spending and tourism-driven economic growth.

2. Prioritize Economic Development in Strategic Commercial Areas
   Strengthen key commercial districts by using zoning, land use policy, and design standards to guide
    reinvestment, attract desired businesses, and enhance community character.

    Key Actions:
    o    Use zoning, land development regulations, and area-specific plans to identify and guide
         redevelopment opportunities in priority commercial zones, balancing high-quality urban design
         with practical parking and business needs.
    o    Establish policy frameworks and regulatory tools that encourage a desirable mix of retail, dining,
         entertainment, and services that meet the needs of both residents and visitors.




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Pll!n-tflan.l Mission Statement & Goals- 12.02.2025                      Page 9of 20
     o   Support adaptive reuse and context-sensitive redevelopment through clear standards and
         incentives that add community value while minimizing financial burdens on taxpayers.


3.   Support Redevelopment of Strategic Properties to Serve Both Residents and Visitors
     Use la nd-use policies, zoning tools, and regulatory guidance to encourage t he redevelopment of
     underutilized areas- such as the Gravel Pit-in ways that support community needs, enhance the
     visitor experience, and strengthen long-term economic vitality.


     Key Actions:
     o   Apply zoning updates, development standards, and voluntary Incentives to guide reinvestment
         toward land uses that benefit both residents and tourists.
     o   Establish planning frameworks- such as small area plans or form-based standards-to signal
         desired development outcomes and give clarity to property owners and developers.
     o   Coordinate infrastructure p lanning and connectivity requirements through the development review
         process to ensure new projects integrate well with surrounding neighborhoods and transportation
         networks.
     o   Use regulatory tools to balance parking needs with high-quality urban design and walkable site
         layouts.


4. Strengthen the City's Role as a ;Premier Office, Retail, and Residential CommunltyL _                            Commented [JS5]: Should retail be a priority moving
     Use land-use regulations, zoning tools, and development standards to support high-quality office               forward?

     environments, vibrant retail areas, and a diverse range of housing options that meet the evolving needs
     of residents and the regional workforce.


     Key Actions:
     o   Update zoning districts, permitted uses, and development standards to support modern office
         spaces, vibrant commercial areas, and diverse housing options that strengthen long-term
         community and economic resilience .
     o   Develop planning frameworks-such as small area plans, overlay districts, or form -based
         standards-to clearly define desired development patterns for property owners and developers.
     o   Promote reinvestment in aging office and commercial areas through flexible regulations and clear
         design expectations that encourage high-quality, sustainable redevelopment.
     o   Refine housing regulations to strategically allow a range of high-quality, attainable, and workforce-
         oriented housing types while maintaining compatibility with existing neighborhoods.
     2._Coordinate with transportation and infrastructure partners to ensure new development is
         accessible, well-connected, and consistent with the city's mountain-suburban character.


s    Supporting a Resilient, Diverse. and Future-Ready Local Economy [sustainability]
     The city aims to foster a resilient and diverse local economy through targeted redevelopment business
     support and efficient use of existing infrastruct11re Innovation workforce development energy
     etficiency and ouality-ot-lite investments will attract and retain businesses create jobs and support
     long-termeconomic stability,


DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Phttt--t£lan.l Mission Statement & Goals -12.02.2025               Page 10 of 20
    o     Encourage redevelopment and rei nvestment in targeted areas to strengthen the tax base while
          efficiently using existing infrastructure
    "     Support local businesses entrepreneurship, and innovation particularly those aligned with energy
          efficiency clean technology and sustainable practices
    n     Diversity city revenue sources by attracting a balanced mix of employment commercial and
          mixed-use development
    o     Partner regionally to support workforce development job training and emerging industries
          including clean energy and green technologies
    ,·,   Align public infrastructure investments with long-term economic sustainability goals prioritizing
          projects that improve ciuality of life and economic competitiveness
    .-,   Promote energy-efficient buildings and operations as a cost-saying strategy for businesses and
          long-term economic resilience
    ,.,   Enhance the city's ouaHty of life mobility options and recreational amenities to attract and retain
          businesses workers and investment




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Ptffi-tflan.1 Mission Statement & Goals• 12.02.2025               Page l l of 20
WATER USE & PRESERVATION [ADOPTED]
         "Through proactive p lanning, Cottonwood Heights aims for a future characterized by vibrant
        Activity Centers, along with thoughtful infill and redevelopment, ensuring the preservation of
         its natural beauty and the quality of its neighborhoods. The city will focus on transforming
         existing commercial areas, like Union Park and Old Mill Corporate Centers, into vibrant,
         mixed-use Activity Centers which off er diverse commercial, retail, and cultural services,
         prioritizing pedestrian and transit accessibility. This strategic vision will strengthen the local
         economy while seamlessly integrating natural open spaces. A key element of this future will
         be to ensure that evolving land use patterns continue to support a sustainable water future."


1. Become a Water Wise Leader & Track Progress on Sust ainability Goals


    Key Actions:
         o    Review implementation progress and measurable outcomes from the lnterlocal
              Sustainability Action Plan to guide next steps and assess progress made.
         o    Retrofit ~ ity facilities and parks with smart irrigation, low-flow fixtures, and drought-
              tolerant landscaping.
         o    Use the Town Center and Activity Centers as visible examples of water-wise design and
              green infrastructure.
         o    Require water-efficient standards for all new or renovated ~ ity-led development
              projects.
         o    Integrate educational signage into public spaces to highlight water-saving practices and
              engage the community.


ir.Z...Strengthen Collaborative Efforts


    Key Actions:
         o    Establish a structured communication process between Cottonwood Heights and
              SLCDPU, such as regular coordination meetings or a standing liaison role, to ensure
              consistent updates, shared planning eff orts, and improved responsiveness to mutual
              needs.
         o    Co-host water conservation workshops, community events, and outreach campaigns.
              Leverage SLCDPU's commun ication tools and expertise to engage residents in water-
              wise practices and promote rebate or incentive programs available through Utah Water
              Savers.
         .2...._ln partnership with SLCDPU, identify a set of shared water conservation goals-
              grounded in the updated SLCDPU Water Conservation Plan-and commit to
              coordinated action toward achieving them. Use these goals to shape ~ ity




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General P!efl---tfl.ao...l Mission Statement & Goals• 12.02.2025               Page 12 of 20
         o    initiatives, inform program priorities, and ensure alignment between local efforts and
              utility-led conservation strategies.


b..._lntegrate Water Conservation into All Stages of the Land Development Process


    Key Actions:
         o    Implement comprehensive zoning, municipal codes, and land development standards
              that mandate water-efficient practices at the time of construction, including limited
              lawn areas, efficient fixtures, and smart irrigation systems. Reinforce conservation
              through post-occupancy standards like landscape maintenance guidelines.
         o    Utilize tools such as overlay zoning to clearly defi ne and protect areas designated for
              environmental conservation while guiding urban growth into appropriate, water-
              conscious zones.
         o    Actively promote and incentivize infill development to optimize existing infrastructure,
              reduce sprawl, and minimize new water infrastructure demands.
         o    Plan for and incorporate green infrastructure solutions (e.g., permeable surfaces, rain
              gardens, bioswates) within development projects to manage stormwater, recharge
              groundwater, and reduce reliance on potable water for irrigation.
         o    Integrate the findings and goats of this chapter with land use, transportation, recreation
              and other elements to ensure water conservation is uniformly addressed as part of the
              design and implementation of future neighborhoods, districts, roadways and
              infrast ructure projects.
         o    Review and remove barriers to water conservation, avoiding redundant standards or
              incentives. Implement robust incentive programs, such as fee rebates, reductions, or
              waivers for developers adopting water conservation measures, and pair these with
              procedural benefits like expedited permitting.
         o    Develop and enforce post-occupancy standards that encourage ongoing water
              efficiency, including requirements for post-occupancy documentation related to water-
              saving practices.
         o    Strengthen Water Adequacy in Subdivision Regulations:
                        Draft a clear statement of purpose and intent for subdivision regulations that
                        explicitly includes water conservation and efficiency.
                        Require documentation of water supply adequacy in preliminary plat
                        applications.
                        Mandate referral of applications to relevant water agencies for review and
                        approval.
                        Withhold final plat approval until confirmation of adequate and sustainable
                        water supply is received .




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plftft-tElan..J. Mission Statement & Goals - 12.02.2025             Page 13 of 20
WATER USE & PRESERVATION [PROPOSED]
         "Our mission is to safeguard Cottonwood Heights' interests in a secure and resilient water
         future by responsibly exercising the r;:6ity's authority over land use and development policy.
         We are committed to protecting the vital regional watershed and empowering our residents
         and businesses to make informed, water-wise choices that reduce overall demand. Through
         sound planning and strong partnerships, we aim to ensure that community development
         remains manageable and is supported by available resources, promoting a culture of
         voluntary conservation and stewardship."

1. Empower the Community Through Education, Outreach, and Voluntary Water Conservation
    Cottonwood Heights will foster a culture of water stewardship by providing accessible education, tools,
    and incentives that help residents and businesses make informed, voluntary choices to reduce water
    use. Through ongoing outreach and partnerships, the city will celebrate community achievements and
    expand conservation awareness across all neighborhoods.


    Key Actions:
    o    Promote existing rebate and incentive programs, such as Utah Water Savers and subsidized rain
         barrel distributions, through ~ ity communication channels.
    o    Feature regular "Water Tip of the Month" content in €.i;ity newsletters, social media, and public
         signage to provide practical, actionable conservation advice.
    o    Use i;.€ ity newsletters, workshops, and outreach programs to share ongoing water conservation
         efforts and encourage voluntary actions among residents.
    o    Support and promote resident-led initiatives like tree planting and pollinator gardens that exemplify
         water-wise landscaping principles.
    o    Develop and publish annual reports highlighting community participation in water conservation
         programs to raise awareness and celebrate successes.
    e--Expand outreach by collaborating with a broader range of local organizations to reach diverse and
         under-served community members.
    0

    o    Continue and expand partnership-based water-wise landscaping workshops in collaboration with
         SLCDPU and JVWCD.
    e--Explore opportunities to partner with SLCDPU and JVWCD to provide water-wise education and
         training for i;.€ ity staff and Public Works personnel, including contractor certifications, Localscapes
         classes, and resources like QWEL.net.
    0

    o    Develop a suite of user-friendly digital platforms and interactive tools that empower residents to
         make informed water-wise decisions, such as a monthly water use and preservation newsletter,
         printable guides and checklists, social media campaigns, virtual workshops, water-use calculators,
         etc.




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Pl!!n-tflilll..l Mission Statement & Goals - 12.02.2025             Page 14of 20
    o    Foster a culture of water stewardship through community recognition programs, awards, or friendly
         competitions that celebrate and incentivize efficient water use.


2. Lead by Example In Water Efficiency and Community Stewardship
    The city will model responsible water use in its own facilities, parks, and public spaces, demonstrating
    the effectiveness of water-wise design and operational practices. By integrating conservation into civic
    projects and sharing transparent progress updates, Cottonwood Heights will inspire similar actions
    throughout the community.


    Key Actions:
    o    Review progress and measurable outcomes from the lnterlocal Sustainability Action Plan to guide
         J;6ity water stewardship initiatives.
    -    integrate educational signage in public spaces such as parks, trailheads, and City Hall to promote
         awareness of water-saving practices.
    0

    &-Encourage the adoption of water-efficient design standards for new or renovated i;6 ity-led
         development projects wherever feasible.
    0

    o    Retrofiti;6ityfacilities and parks with smart irrigation systems, low-flow fixtures, and drought-
         tolerant landscaping as budgets and staff capacity allow.
    o    Use the Town Center and Activity Centers as visibl e, inspirational examples of water-wise design
         and green infrastructure.
    o    Work with SLCOPU and JVWCD to provide regular, t ransparent updates on water conservation
         progress to maintain community engagement and trust.


3. Strengthen Collaborative Efforts and Promote Fair Water Management
    Cottonwood Heights will deepen its partnerships with water providers and regional agencies to align
    conservation goals, improve communication, and enhance shared planning efforts. Through open
    dialogue on water use, affordability, and data needs, the ~ ity w A f - ~support fair and effective
    water management for all residents.


    Key Actions:
    o    Establish structured communication processes with SLCDPU, such as regular coordination
         meetings or a liaison role, to enhance shared planning and responsiveness.
    o    Partner with SLCDPU to co-host water conservation workshops, community events, and outreach
         cam paigns leveraging utility expertise and resources.
    er-Engage in open and transparent dialogue about water pricing and issues of fairness and
         affordability to better understand and address resident concerns, recognizing that pricing authority
         lies with the utility.
    0

    o    Collaborate with SLCDPU to identify shared water conservation goals grounded in the updated
         Water Conservation Plan (2025), ensuring alignment of 6 i;ity initiatives with utility-led efforts.



DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Pttm-tfla!l..l Mission Statement & Goals - 12.02.2025                 Page 15 of 20
    o !coordinate with Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities to obtain water usage data specific to
         Cottonwood Heights.~ - - - - - --                                                                                      Commented [JS6]: II would be helpful for this to
                                                                                                                                address usage based on land use type {commercial,
                                                                                                                                residential, industrial, civic).
4. Integrate Water Conservation into the Land Development and Redevelopment Process
    The city will work to strengthen and refine water-efficient standards within its development regulations
    to help guide growth in a manner that conserves water resources and supports long-term sustainability.
    Through coordinated requirements enco1uagement of iofHl development and the integration of green
    infrastructure the City seeks to ensure that new development contributes to a resilient and secure
    water fulllre 1vill l1 ,eorr,or8te 0i8!cr efficient st8nd8rds into dcvclor,111cnt rcgul8tio11s to guide gro.vtl, in
    fl nfly lhflt eeF1Jerve3 feJeuree3 flflei 3uppefl3 leF1g terffl 3U3loineailily. By J!reflffllifliflg fel:jUife ffleflt3,
    eF1eeurngiF1g iF1fiH, aflel i:,refl~eting gfeefl iflffeslfuetUfe, Cetlen.. eeel I !eights .. ill ensufe Re"
    de,elei:,fflent eentfiautes to a seeufe Ofld resilient .. alerfutufe.

    Key Actions:
    o Review and update land development standards to incorporate water-efficient practices and
        policies.
    e--Review and remove barriers to water conservation (such as unnecessary or conflicting regulations,
        complex procedures, and overlapping or ineffective incentives) to ensure clear, consistent
        standards that encourage effective water-saving practices.
    0

    o    Actively promote and incentivize infill development to optimize existing infrastructure.
    o    Plan for and incorporate green infrastructure solutions (e.g., permeable surfaces, rain gardens,
         bioswales) within development projects to manage stormwater, recharge groundwater, improve
         water quality by filtering runoff, and reduce reliance on potable water for irrigation.

s   Ensuring Long-Term Wate.r..S.u.slaioab.ili!y.Thm.ugh Land Use and Design [sustainability]
    The city promotes land use and development patterns that align with long -term water availability and
    encourage effjcient compact growth lo support of these land use patterns the city encourages
    strategies such as water-wise landscaping green infrastructure and community education to help
    reduce overall water demand and support a resilient water future
    n Align land use and development decisions with the city's available and projected water supply
    a Promote water-efficient development patterns including higheI=.d.eo.sity housing and compact
        development where appropriate
    .-, Require and encourage low-impact landscaping native and drought-tolerant plaotiogs and
        efficient irrigation systems io public and private projects
         Red, ice stormwater wooff through green iofrastruclll(e including bioswales rain gardens
         permeable surfaces and tree preservation.
    o Encourage redevelopment that reduces overall water demand compared to existing uses
    0    Lead by example by incorporating water-efficient practices into city facilities parks and public




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Ptltft--tfllln.J. Mission Statement & Goals -12.02.2025                        Page 16 of 20
         Educate residents and businesses on the retationship_between land use wate r use andJong::term
         community resilience




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Pttm-t£lau..l Mission S1a1emenl & Goals - 12.02.2025         Page 17 of 20
RECREATION
         "Cottonwood Heights is commirted to enhancing quality of life through a balanced,
         sustainable, and connected system of parks, trails, and recreational opportunities that
         reflect the city's mountain-suburban character. Through thoughtful planning, environmental
         stewardship, and co//aboration with regional partners, the city works to preserve open
         spaces, protect natural resources, expand access to the outdoors, and encourage active,
         healthy lifestyles."

1. Maximize Existing Recreational Opportunities
     Cottonwood Heights will prioritize maintaining and modernizing its existing parks and trail s, ensuring
     they remain high-quality, sustainable, and aligned with regional canyon-access planning.


     Key Actions:
     o   Align master plans with the forthcoming Tri-Canyon Trails Plan created by the U.S. Forest Service
         {USFS). Collaborate with USFS and private l andowners to maintain and improve access to canyons.
     o   Modernize existing parks with updated infrastructure, equipment, and landscape treatments,
         guided by neighborhood-level planning and community input
     o   Prioritize the protection, upkeep, and improvement of existing parks, trails, and facilities before
         developing new ones, where feasible.
     o   Promote sustainable recreational development and enhancements such as low-impact
         development, energy-efficient design, and waterwise landscaping for both new and existing
         facilities.


2. Expand Recreational Opportunities
     The citywills1dlle.lo..strategically add new parks, pocket parks, and trail connections to create a more
     complete, comfortable, and connected recreational network.


     Key Actions:
     o   Apply "complete streets" principles to trail and streetscape design- incorporating amenities like
         benches, lighting, signage, and landscaping to improve comfort, safety, and usability.
     o   Develop pocket parks in under-served areas where larger parks may not be feasible.
     o   Extend and connect existing trail networks to surrounding neighborhoods to create a more
         comprehensive recreational infrastructure.


3.   Enhance Accessibility of Recreational Spaces
     Cottonwood Heights will .s1rilll:..l!limprove accessibility and connectivity by upgrading facilities,
     enhancing key walking and biking routes, and ensuring parks and trails are usable for people of all ages
     and abilities.




DRAFT Cottonwood Heigh ts General Plttn-tetao..l. Mission Statement & Goals• 12.02.2025                Page 18of 20
   Key Actions:
   o       Retrofit existing parks and recreational facilities to meet or exceed ADA standards, ensuring that all
           residents can access them.__
   o       Implement neighborhood and ~                      trail and pathway enhancements that result in a
           fully- connected and accessible trail system.
   o       Improve neighborhood connectivity by identifying and enhancing walking routes, pathways, and
           trail connections that link residents to nearby recreational amenities,
   o       Develop and maintain safe, neighborhood-appropriate walking and biking paths, ensuring that
           routes are comfortable, well-designed and suitable for a variety of users,
   o       Enhance lighting along key paths and trail corridors to improve safety, visibility, and usability, while
           being mindful of dark-sky goals,
   o       Inventory, maintain, and increase publicly accessible pedestrian cut-throughs to connect
           neighborhoods to each other and to community amenities. Evaluate existing cut-throughs for safety
           and accessibility.


4. !Preserve Open Space ~ - - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - -- -- - - - - -- -                                                  -   Commented [JS7J: Make distinction between private
    The city will continue to prioritize the~ and steward.ship_-m.ot natural open spaces oo                                      and public land. Consider using easements on private
                                                                                                                                 land where appropriate to achieve goals.
   public lands while supporting conservation efforts on tolllil(ll.te prpperty such as the use of
   conservation or access easement where appropriate to preserve ecological health, safeguard public
   access, and maintain its mountain-suburban character all while maintaining private property eights.

   Key Actions:
   Q__Protect and maintain public access to open spaces, including canyons and trails within city
      boundaries.
   o    Promote the access to and acquisition ot private lanct(s) for trails and trail heads via easements and
        "right-of-way" designations
   o Prioritize long-term preseNation of natural and scenic resources through__p_u__b_lk land-use policies,
        partnerships, and stewardship efforts.
   2..._Ensure open spaces remain ecologically healthy and resilient by supporting practices that protect
        habitats, reduce erosion, and maintain watershed functions.

s, Providi ng Sustainable and Connected Recreational Opportunities [sustainability]
   The city promotes equitable connected and sustainable access to parks trails and recreational
   amenities throughout Cottonwood Heights It supports public health community well-being and long-
   term recreational needs through resource-etficient design protection of natural features and
   coordinated planning,_
   ,-,     Ensure equitable access to parks trails and recreationaUacilities for all neighborhoods and at¼
           gro_yps..
   o       Expand and enhance the citywide trail and open space network to support recreation active
           transportation and environmental protection
   _o__D_esign parks and recreational facilities to minimize water and energy.use, using efficient irrigation
       native landscaping and sustainable materials


DRAFT    Cottonwood Heights Gener a l   l'tt!n-tBan.l   Mission Statement &   Goals- 12.02.2025        Page   19   of   20
    o Protect and integrate natural features and open spaces into the recreatiQll.S_y_stem to enhance
      environmental stewardship and community health
    o Prioritize redevelopment and enhancement of existing parks while strategically adding new
      facilities to meet future needs.
      Support recreational amenities that promote public health social interaction and quality of life
      mtrib..uting to social sustainability
    o Coordinate recreation planning with land use and transportation to ensure safe convenient and
      connected access




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plfttt-tfl.an..1 Mission Statement & Goals• 12.02.2025       Page 20 of 20
NOTE: This is a "clean" document reflecting the edits made since the last Joint Work Session on
December 2, 2025.




LAND USE
         "Cottonwood Heights will promote thoughtful, targeted development that strengthens our
        city, protects private property rights, drives economic opportunities, and helps create a
        vibrant and distinctive sense of place for residents and landowners. The city will facilitate the
         improvement of multimodal connections between homes, businesses, and recreational
        areas. The city will foster a strong local economy, vibrant commercial districts, and a
        community-oriented Towne Center. Clear and purposeful land use designations will guide
        development in a way that enhances property values and aligns with the city's long-term
        vision. By streamlining development processes, collaborating with public and private
        partners, and leveraging city-owned assets, the Cottonwood Heights will create a more
        connected, accessible, and prosperous future for residents, landowners, businesses, and
        visitors."

1. Targeted, High-Quality Development and Redevelopment
    The city will work toward focusing growth and reinvestment in strategic areas to support community
    character, mixed-use development, and overall development quality. Zoning updates and targeted
    incentives may be considered to help guide redevelo pment and advance economic and place-making
    objectives.


    Key Actions:
    o   Prioritize development and redevelopment in t argeted areas.
    o   Update zoning code to provide more high-quality development outcomes.
    o    Encourage reinvestment in underutilized commercial areas and aging properties.
    o   Provide incentives for projects that align with citywide planning goals.
    o   Promote development that supports a mix of uses where appropriate.


2. Streamlined, Predictable, and Fair Development Processes
    Cottonwood Heights aims to modernize its development review procedures to promote clarity, fa irness,
    and efficiency for applicants and residents. Objective standards and improved coordination will reduce
    delays and create greater predictability.


    Key Actions:
    o   Simplify the development review process t o reduce delays and increase transparency.
    o   Remove outdated, redundant, or unclear regulations that do not contribute to health, safety, or
        welfare.




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plan I Mission Statement & Goals -12.02.2025                          Page 1 of 17
    o    Establish clear, objective approval standards to protect private property rights and reduce
         uncertainty.
    o    Create fast-track development review pathways for projects compliant with adopted land use maps
         and zoning.
    o    Improve coordination among city departments to enhance customer service and efficiency.


3. Strengthen Neighborhood Character and Land Use Compatibility
    New development will enhance neighborhood character through context-sensitive design, appropriate
    transitions, and pedestrian-friendly site layouts. This approach will ensure infill and redevelopment
    contribute positively to the city's unique sense of place.


    Key Actions:
    o    Support development that fosters the future vision of the city and its unique sense of place.
    o    Encourage developers to implement context-sensitive transitions using buffering, landscaping,
         building massing, and site design. [Mitigating secondary impacts].
    o    Promote walkability, pedestrian-friendly design, and connections within and between
         neighborhoods.
    o    Encourage infill development that aligns with the city's future vision.


4. Expand Connectivity and Access to Community Amenities
    The City will support and pursue improvements to multi modal connections between homes,
    businesses, and recreation areas to strengthen mobility and access. Investments in trails, transit
    partnerships, and public amenities will create a more integrated and accessible community.


    Key Actions:
    o    Improve pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure, including trails, sidewalks, and safe crossings.
    o    Coordinate with public agencies to expand transit access and improve system integration.
    o    Leverage city-owned or public lands to increase parks, civic amenities, and trail linkages.
    o    Pursue grants and partnerships for land acquisition, open space, and recreation improvements.


5. Support a Resilient, Diverse, and Vibrant Local Economy
    Cottonwood Heights aims to strengthen key commercial districts and support the creation of flexible,
    innovative spaces that contribute to business attraction and retention. Economic development
    strategies may be used to support residents, visitors, employees, and long-term fiscal sustainability.


    Key Actions:
    o    Reinforce key economic centers on the east and west sides of the city.
    o    Develop the Towne Center as a community-oriented hub with neighborhood-serving businesses.
    o    Encourage flexible commercial spaces such as incubators, mixed-use buildings, and startup-
        friendly environments.
    o    Promote development in areas with visibility and traffic patterns that support economic success.
    o    Strengthen relationships with business owners, developers, and regional economic partners.


DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plan I Mission Statement & Goals -12.02.2025                          Page 2 of 17
    o    Coordinate early with public stakeholders on major projects affecting city residents.


6. Embedding Sustainability into Growth and Development Patterns [sustainability]
    The city intends to guide its pursuit of sustainability by promoting compact, walkable, and well-
    connected development patterns that minimize environmental impacts and reduce reliance on
    automobiles. The City's approach aims to balance redevelopment and housing diversity with the
    protection of natural resources and the preservation of Cottonwood Heights' distinctive community
    character.
    o    Support and encourage growth toward compact, walkable, mixed-use infill and redevelopment in
         activity centers, corridors, and transit-served areas to reduce environmental impacts and
         infrastructure costs.
    o    Promote land use patterns that reduce vehicle dependence, shorten trip lengths, and support daily
         needs within close proximity.
    o    Seek to protect open space, foothills, riparian corridors, sensitive habitats, and natural lands
         through land use designations, development standards, and conservation practices.
    o    Encourage sustainable site planning and building design, including orientation for passive solar
         gain, reduced impervious surfaces, and integration of low-impact landscaping.
    o    Support a range of housing types that meet the needs of all life stages and income levels while
         efficiently using land and infrastructure.
    o    Encourage connectivity between developments and surrounding neighborhoods, emphasizing
         pedestrian, bicycle, and trail connections.
    o    Strive to balance redevelopment and intensification with design compatibility that respects
         neighborhood character and Cottonwood Heights' identity.




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights Genera l Plan I Mission Statement & Goals - 12.02.2025                       Page 3 of 17
TRANSPORTATION
        "Provide a safe, balanced, and multimodal transportation system that supports Cottonwood
        Heights' quality of life, protects neighborhood character, strengthens economic vitality, and
        responsibly manages regional and canyon-related travel while improving mobility for
        residents of all ages and abilities." (Citizen engagement during foundational concepts)

1. Improve Safety for all Users of the Transportation System


    Objectives
        1.    Redu ce serious injuries and fatalities within Cottonwood Heights' boundary.
        2. Adopt Safe Systems Approach (SSA) prioritizing projects and policy that measurably
              improve safety.
        3.    Design streets that create visual friction and reduce conflict between vehicles,
              pedestrians, bicyclists, and transit.

    Policies:
        Policy 1.1: Prioritize safety improvements in transportation planning, design, and capital
        investment decisions.
        Policy 1.2: Support street designs and traffic management strategies that reduce vehicle speeds
        where appropriate, particularly near neighborhoods, schools, parks, and commercial areas.
         Policy 1.3: Incorporate pedestrian and bicycle safety considerations into roadway, intersection,
         and redevelopment projects.


2. Provide a Balanced Transportation System that Supports Multiple Modes of Travel


    Objectives:
         1.   Expand opportunities for walking, bicycling, and transit as viable travel options.
         2.   Improve trail and sidewalk connections between and within neighborhoods, for example
              between school, activity centers, parks, and regional destinations.
         3.   Improve trail and sidewalk connections between and within neighborhoods, fo r example
              between school, activity centers, parks, and regional destinations.


    Policies:
         Policy 2.1: Plan and design streets as multi modal facilities that consider pedestrians, bicyclists,
         transit, and vehicles.
         Policy 2.2: Improve connectivity of sidewalks, trails, and bikeways to create a more continuous and
         accessible network.
         Policy 2.3: Coordinate transportation improvements with transit providers to enhance access to
         regional transit services.




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plan I Mission Statement & Goals - 12.02.2025                        Page4 of 17
3. Protect Neighborhood Livability while Managing Traffic


    Objectives:
         1.      Minimize cut-through traffic in residential neighborhoods.
         2.      Preserve neighborhood character while maintaining reasonable access and mobility.
         3.      Balance mobility on major corridors with access to adjacent neighborhoods and businesses.


    Policies:
         Policy 3.1: Use traffic calming, operational strategies, and street design to discourage
         inappropriate through-traffic in residential areas.
         Policy 3.2: Evaluate transportation projects for their potential impacts on neighborhood quality of
         life.
         Policy 3.3: Balance roadway capacity, access, and safety in corridor planning and improvement
         projects.


4. Address Regional and Canyon-Related Travel Through Coordinated, Sustainable Solutions
    Objectives:


         1.      Manage regional and canyon-bound traffic in a way that minimizes local impacts.
        2.       Improve travel reliability and safety on major corridors serving canyon access.
         3.      Support alternatives to single-occupancy vehicle travel for regional trips.


    Policies:
         Policy 4.1: Coordinate with state, regional, and transit partners on transportation solutions
         affecting canyon access and regional travel.
         Policy 4.2: Advocate for transit, travel demand management, and multi modal strategies that
         reduce congestion and neighborhood impacts.
         Policy 4.3: Consider the cumulative impacts of regional travel on City streets when evaluating
        transportation improvements.


5. Align transportation Investments with land Use, Economic Resiliency, and Community Centers


    Objectives:
         1.      Support walkable, accessible activity centers and corridors.
        2.       Use transportation investments to reinforce redevelopment and economic vitality.
        3.       Adapt transportation planning to changing travel patterns and economic conditions.


    Policies:
         Policy 5.1: Coordinate transportation planning with land use decisions, particularly in designated
         corridors and activity centers.




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plan I Mission Statement & Goals• 12.02.2025                         Page 5 of 17
    •    Policy 5.2: Prioritize transportation improvements that enhance access to businesses,
         employment areas, and mixed-use developments.
    •    Policy 5.3: Support flexible transportation strategies that respond to evolving work, shopping, and
         travel patterns.




6. Creating a Connected, Efficient, and Sustainable Transportation System [sustainability]
    The city aims to develop a safe, connected, and multimodal transportation system that improves
    access to daily destinations and reduces reliance on single-occupant vehicles. Complete streets,
    efficient land use, and coordinated investments will support mobility, public health, air quality, and
    long-term community resilience.
    o    Improve multimodal connectivity between neighborhoods, employment centers, schools, parks,
         and commercial areas.
    o    Design streets as complete streets that safely accommodate pedestrians, bicyclists, transit users,
         and vehicles of all ages and abilities.
    o    Reduce reliance on single-occupant vehicles by supporting active transportation, transit
         partnerships, and improved transit amenities.
    o    Encourage land use patterns that reduce trip lengths and vehicle miles traveled, supporting
         healthier lifestyles and improved air quality.
    o    Implement strategies to reduce vehicle idling, especially near schools, parks, and high-activity
         corridors.
    o    Support reduced and shared parking approaches in appropriate locations to encourage alternative
         transportation modes and more efficient land use.
    o    Integrate transportation investments with land use and economic development goals to improve
         overall system efficiency and resilience.




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plan I Mission Statement & Goals - 12.02.2025                       Page 6 of 17
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
         "Cottonwood Heights aims to build a forward-thinking economy grounded in resilience,
        innovation, and fiscal responsibility that benefits residents, businesses, and visitors alike.
         The city strives to attract and retain businesses that align with its vision of a vibrant, livable,
        and environmentally conscious community, balancing new growth with the careful
        stewardship of its unique mountain environment. Building on its strong reputation,
         Cottonwood Heights will remain a premier office destination, retail hub, and desirable
        residential community with a wide range of high-quality housing options that meet the
         changing needs of residents and the workforce."

1. Enhance Local Access to Goods, Services, and Experiences to Capture Sales Tax Revenue
    Ensure Cottonwood Heights provides a diverse range of essential goods, services, and recreational
    experiences that meet the needs of residents and visitors, while capturing sales tax dollars and
    minimizing leakage to neighboring jurisdictions. This includes prioritizing experiential and
    entertainment-based retail, local dining, and outdoor recreational amenities that attract both locals
    and tourists, strengthening the local economy.


    Key Actions:
    o    Foster partnerships with local and regional economic development organizations to promote the
         city as a premier destination for business.
    o    Develop and expand retail options that serve both daily needs and unique experience-driven
         offerings.
    o    Identify market gaps and strategic development opportunities to recapture sales tax revenue that
         currently flows to neighboring cities.
    o    Leverage the city's tourism assets, including Big and Little Cottonwood Canyons, to attract visitors,
         boost local retail sales, and draw employers who value access to outdoor recreation.
    o    Enhance amenities for outdoor recreation, including improved access to trailheads, parking, and
         shuttle services, to support both local spending and tourism-driven economic growth.


2. Prioritize Economic Development in Strategic Commercial Areas
    Strengthen key commercial districts by using zoning, land use policy, and design standards to guide
    reinvestment, attract desired businesses, and enhance community character.


    Key Actions:
    o    Use zoning, land development regulations, and area-specific plans to identify and guide
         redevelopment opportunities in priority commercial zones, balancing high-quality urban design
        with practical parking and business needs.
    o    Establish policy frameworks and regulatory tools that encourage a desirable mix of retail, dining,
         entertainment, and services that meet the needs of both residents and visitors.




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plan I Mission Statement & Goals• 12.02.2025                              Page7 of 17
    o   Support adaptive reuse and context-sensitive redevelopment through clear standards and
        incentives that add community value while minimizing financial burdens on taxpayers.


3. Support Redevelopment of Strategic Properties to Serve Both Residents and Visitors
    Use land-use policies, zoning tools, and regulatory guidance to encourage the redevelopment of
    underutilized areas-such as the Gravel Pit-in ways that support community needs, enhance the
    visitor experience, and strengthen long-term economic vitality.


    Key Actions:
    o   Apply zoning updates, development standards, and voluntary incentives to guide reinvestment
        toward land uses that benefit both residents and tourists.
    o   Establish planning frameworks- such as small area plans or form-based standards-to signal
        desired development outcomes and give clarity to property owners and developers.
    o   Coordinate infrastructure planning and connectivity requirements through the development review
        process to ensure new projects integrate well with surrounding neighborhoods and transportation
        networks.
    o   Use regulatory tools to balance parking needs with high-quality urban design and walkable site
        layouts.


4. Strengthen the City's Role as a Premier Office, Retail, and Residential Community
    Use land-use regulations, zoning tools, and development standards to support high-quality office
    environments, vibrant retail areas, and a diverse range of housing options that meet the evolving needs
    of residents and the regional workforce.


    Key Actions:
    o   Update zoning districts, permitted uses, and development standards to support modern office
        spaces, vibrant commercial areas, and diverse housing options that strengthen long-term
        community and economic resilience.
    o    Develop planning frameworks-such as small area plans, overlay districts, or form-based
        standards-to clearly define desired development patterns for property owners and developers.
    o    Promote reinvestment in aging office and commercial areas through flexible regulations and clear
        design expectations that encourage high-quality, sustainable redevelopment.
    o    Refine housing regulations to strategically allow a range of high-quality, attainable, and workforce-
         oriented housing types while maintaining compatibility with existing neighborhoods.
    o    Coordinate with transportation and infrastructure partners to ensure new development is
         accessible, well-connected, and consistent with the city's mountain-suburban character.


5. Supporting a Resilient, Diverse, and Future-Ready Local Economy [sustainability]
    The city aims to foster a resilient and diverse local economy through targeted redevelopment, business
    support, and efficient use of existing infrastructure. Innovation, workforce development, energy
    efficiency, and quality-of-life investments will attract and retain businesses, create jobs, and support
    long-term economic stability.


DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plan I Mission Statement & Goals -12.02.2025                        Page Sot 17
    o    Encourage redevelopment and reinvestment in targeted areas to strengthen the tax base while
         efficiently using existing infrastructure.
    o    Support local businesses, entrepreneurship, and innovation , particularly those aligned with energy
         efficiency, clean technology, and sustainable practices.
    o    Diversify city revenue sources by attracting a balanced mix of employment, commercial, and
         mixed-use development.
    o    Partner regionally to support workforce development, job training, and emerging industries,
         including clean energy and green technologies.
    o    Align public infrastructure investments with long-term economic sustainability goals, prioritizing
         projects that improve quality of life and economic competitiveness.
    o    Promote energy-efficient buildings and operations as a cost-saving strategy for businesses and
         long-term economic resilience.
    o    Enhance the city's quality of life, mobility options, and recreational amenities to attract and retain
         businesses, workers, and investment.




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plan I Mission Statement & Goals - 12.02.2025                         Page 9 of 17
WATER USE & PRESERVATION [ADOPTED]
         "Through proactive planning, Cottonwood Heights aims for a future characterized by vibrant
        Activity Centers, along with thoughtful infill and redevelopment, ensuring the preservation of
        its natural beauty and the quality of its neighborhoods. The city will focus on transforming
        existing commercial areas, like Union Park and Old Mill Corporate Centers, into vibrant,
        mixed-use Activity Centers which off er diverse commercial, retail, and cultural services,
        prioritizing pedestrian and transit accessibility. This strategic vision will strengthen the local
        economy while seamlessly integrating natural open spaces. A key element of this future will
        be to ensure that evolving land use patterns continue to support a sustainable water future."


1. Become a Water Wise Leader & Track Progress on Sustainability Goals


     Key Actions:
         o   Review implementation progress and measurable outcomes from the lnterlocal
             Sustainability Action Plan to guide next steps and assess progress made.
         o   Retrofit city facilities and parks with smart irrigation, low-flow fixtures, and drought-
             tolerant landscaping.
         o   Use the Town Center and Activity Centers as visible examples of water-wise design and
             green infrastructure.
         o   Require water-efficient standards for all new or renovated city-led development
             projects.
         o   Integrate educational sign age into public spaces to highlight water-saving practices and
             engage the community.


2.   Strengthen Collaborative Efforts


     Key Actions:
         o   Establish a structured communication process between Cottonwood Heights and
             SLCDPU, such as regular coordination meetings or a standing liaison role, to ensure
             consistent updates, shared planning efforts, and improved responsiveness to mutu al
             needs.
         o   Co-host water conservation workshops, community events, and outreach campaigns.
             Leverage SLCDPU's communication tools and expertise to engage residents in water-
             wise practices and promote rebate or incentive programs available through Utah Water
             Savers.
         o   In partnership with SLCDPU, identify a set of shared water conservation goals-
             grounded in the updated SLCDPU Water Conservation Plan-and commit to
             coordinated action toward achieving them. Use these goals to shape city




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plan I Mission Statement & Goals - 12.02.2025                         Page 10 of 17
         o    initiatives, inform program priorities, and ensure alignment between local efforts and
             utility-led conservation strategies.


3.   Integrate Water Conservation into All Stages of the Land Development Process


     Key Actions:
         o   Implement comprehensive zoning, municipal codes, and land development standards
             that mandate water-efficient practices at the time of construction, including limited
             lawn areas, efficient fixtures, and smart irrigation systems. Reinforce conservation
             through post-occupancy standards like landscape maintenance guidelines.
         o   Utilize tools such as overlay zoning to clearly defi ne and protect areas designated for
             environmental conservation while guiding urban growth into appropriate, water-
             conscious zones.
         o   Actively promote and incentivize infill development to optimize existing infrastructure,
             reduce sprawl, and minimize new water infrastructure demands.
         o   Plan for and incorporate green infrastructure solutions (e.g., permeable surfaces, rain
             gardens, bioswales) within development projects to manage stormwater, recharge
             groundwater, and reduce reliance on potable water for irrigation.
         o   Integrate the findings and goals of this chapter with land use, transportation, recreation
             and other elements to ensure water conservation is uniformly addressed as part of the
             design and implementation of future neighborhoods, districts, roadways and
             infrastructure projects.
         o   Review and remove barriers to water conservation, avoiding redundant standards or
             incentives. Implement robust incentive programs, such as fee rebates, reductions, or
             waivers for developers adopting water conservation measures, and pair these with
             procedural benefits like expedited permitting.
         o   Develop and enforce post-occupancy standards that encourage ongoing water
             efficiency, including requirements for post-occupancy documentation related to water-
             saving practices.
         o   Strengthen Water Adequacy in Subdivision Regulations:
                    •   Draft a clear statement of purpose and intent for subdivision regulations that
                        explicitly includes water conservation and efficiency.
                    •   Require documentation of water supply adequacy in preliminary plat
                        applications.
                    •   Mandate referral of applications to relevant water agencies for review and
                        approval.
                    •   Withhold final plat approval until confirmation of adequate and sustainable
                        water supply is received.




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plan I Mission Statement & Goals -12.02.2025                       Page 11 of 17
WATER USE & PRESERVATION [PROPOSED]
         "Our mission is to safeguard Cottonwood Heights' interests in a secure and resilient water
         future by responsibly exercising the city's authority over land use and development policy.
         We are committed to protecting the vital regional watershed and empowering our residents
         and businesses to make informed, water-wise choices that reduce overall demand. Through
         sound planning and strong partnerships, we aim to ensure that community development
         remains manageable and is supported by available resources, promoting a culture of
         voluntary conservation and stewardship."

1. Empower the Community Through Education, Outreach, and Voluntary Water Conservation
    Cottonwood Heights will foster a culture of water stewardship by providing accessible education, tools,
    and incentives that help residents and businesses make informed, voluntary choices to reduce water
    use. Through ongoing outreach and partnerships, the city will celebrate community achievements and
    expand conservation awareness across all neighborhoods.


    Key Actions:
    o    Promote existing rebate and incentive programs, such as Utah Water Savers and subsidized rain
         barrel distributions, through city communication channels.
    o    Feature regular "Water Tip of the Month" content in city newsletters, social media, and public
         signage to provide practical, actionable conservation advice.
    o    Use city newsletters, workshops, and outreach programs to share ongoing water conservation
         efforts and encourage voluntary actions among residents.
    o    Support and promote resident-led initiatives like tree planting and pollinator gardens that exemplify
         water-wise landscaping principles.
    o    Develop and publish annual reports highlighting community participation in water conservation
         programs to raise awareness and celebrate successes.
    o    Expand outreach by collaborating with a broader range of local organizations to reach diverse and
         under-served community members.
    o    Continue and expand partnership-based water-wise landscaping workshops in collaboration with
         SLCDPU and JVWCD.
    o    Explore opportunities to partner with SLCDPU and JVWCD to provide water-wise education and
         training tor city staff and Public Works personnel, including contractor certifications, Localscapes
         classes, and resources like QWEL.net.
    o    Develop a suite of user-friendly digital platforms and interactive tools that empower residents to
         make informed water-wise decisions, such as a monthly water use and preservation newsletter,
         printable guides and checklists, social media campaigns, virtual workshops, water-use calculators,
         etc.
    o    Foster a culture of water stewardship through community recognition programs, awards, or friendly
         competitions that celebrate and incentivize efficient water use.




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plan I Mission Statement & Goals - 12.02.2025                     Page 12 of 17
2. Lead by Example in Water Efficiency and Community Stewardship
    The city will model responsible water use in its own facilities, parks, and public spaces, demonstrating
    the effectiveness of water-wise design and operational practices. By integrating conservation into civic
    projects and sharing transparent progress updates, Cottonwood Heights will inspire similar actions
    throughout the community.


    Key Actions:
     o   Review progress and measurable outcomes from the lnterlocal Sustainability Action Plan to guide
         city water stewardship initiatives.
    o    Integrate educational signage in public spaces such as parks, trailheads, and City Hall to promote
         awareness of water-saving practices.
    o    Encourage the adoption of water-efficient design standards for new or renovated city-led
         development projects wherever feasible.
    o    Retrofit city facilities and parks with smart irrigation systems, low-flow fixtures, and drought-
         tolerant landscaping as budgets and staff capacity allow.
    o    Use the Town Center and Activity Centers as visible, inspirational examples of water-wise design
         and green infrastructure.
    o    Work with SLCDPU and JVWCD to provide regular, transparent updates on water conservation
         progress to maintain community engagement and trust.


3. Strengthen Collaborative Efforts and Promote Fair Water Management
    Cottonwood Heights will deepen its partnerships with water providers and regional agencies to align
    conservation goals, improve communication, and enhance shared planning efforts. Through open
    dialogue on water use, affordability, and data needs, the city seeks to support fair and effective water
    management for all residents.


    Key Actions:
    o    Establish structured communication processes with SLCDPU, such as regular coordination
         meetings or a liaison role, to enhance shared planning and responsiveness.
    o    Partner with SLCDPU to co-host water conservation workshops, community events, and outreach
         campaigns leveraging utility expertise and resources.
    o    Engage in open and transparent dialogue about water pricing and issues of fairness and
         affordability to better understand and address resident concerns, recognizing that pricing authority
         lies with the utility.
    o    Collaborate with SLCDPU to identify shared water conservation goals grounded in the updated
         Water Conservation Plan (2025), ensuring alignment of city initiatives with utility-led efforts.
    o    Coordinate with Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities to obtain water usage data specific to
         Cottonwood Heights.


4. Integrate Water Conservation into the Land Development and Redevelopment Process
    The city will work to strengthen and refine water-efficient standards within its development regulations
    to help guide growth in a manner that conserves water resources and supports long-term sustainability.


DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plan I Mission Statement & Goals • 12.02.2025                        Page 13 of 17
   Through coordinated requirements, encouragement of infill development, and the integration of green
    infrastructure, the City seeks to ensure that new development contributes to a resilient and secure
    water future.


    Key Actions:
    o   Review and update land development standards to incorporate water-efficient practices and
        policies.
    o   Review and remove barriers to water conservation (such as unnecessary or conflicting regulations,
        complex procedures, and overlapping or ineffective incentives) to ensure clear, consistent
        standards that encourage effective water-saving practices.
    o   Actively promote and incentivize infill development to optimize existing infrastructure.
    o   Plan for and incorporate green infrastructure solutions (e.g., permeable surfaces, rain gardens,
        bioswales) within development projects to manage stormwater, recharge groundwater, improve
        water quality by filtering runoff, and reduce reliance on potable water for irrigation.


5. Ensuring Long-Term Water Sustainability Through Land Use and Design (sustainability)
    The city promotes land use and development patterns that align with long-term water availability and
    encourage efficient, compact growth. In support of these land use patterns, the city encourages
    strategies such as water-wise landscaping, green infrastructure, and community education to help
    reduce overall water demand and support a resilient water future.
    o   Align land use and development decisions with the city's available and projected water supply.
    o   Promote water-efficient development patterns, including higher-density housing and compact
        development where appropriate.
    o   Require and encourage low-impact landscaping, native and drought-tolerant plantings, and
        efficient irrigation systems in public and private projects.
    o   Reduce stormwater runoff through green infrastructure, including bioswales, rain gardens,
        permeable surfaces, and tree preservation.
    o   Encourage redevelopment that reduces overall water demand compared to existing uses.
    o    Lead by example by incorporating water-efficient practices into city facilities, parks, and public
         spaces.
    o    Educate residents and businesses on the relationship between land use, water use, and long-term
         community resilience.




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plan I Mission Statement & Goals - 12.02.2025                      Page 14 of 17
RECREATION
          "Cottonwood Heights is committed to enhancing quality of life through a balanced,
          sustainable, and connected system of parks, trails, and recreational opportunities that
          reflect the city's mountain-suburban character. Through thoughtful planning, environmental
          stewardship, and collaboration with regional partners, the city works to preserve open
          spaces, protect natural resources, expand access to the outdoors, and encourage active,
          healthy lifestyles."

1.    Maximize Existing Recreational Opportunities
      Cottonwood Heights will prioritize maintaining and modernizing its existing parks and trails, ensuring
     . they remain high-quality, sustainable, and aligned with regional canyon-access planning.


      Key Actions:
      o   Align master plans with the forthcoming Tri-Canyon Trails Plan created by the U.S. Forest Service
          (USFS). Collaborate with USFS and private landowners to maintain and improve access to canyons.
      o   Modernize existing parks with updated infrastructure, equipment, and landscape treatments,
          guided by neighborhood-level planning and community input
      o   Prioritize the protection, upkeep, and improvement of existing parks, trails, and facilities before
          developing new ones, where feasible.
      o   Promote sustainable recreational development and enhancements such as low-impact
          development, energy-efficient design, and waterwise landscaping for both new and existing
          facilities.


2. Expand Recreational Opportunities
      The city will strive to strategically add new parks, pocket parks, and trail connections to create a more
      complete, comfortable, and connected recreational network.


      Key Actions:
      o   Apply "complete streets" principles to trail and streetscape design-incorporating amenities like
          benches, lighting, signage, and landscaping to improve comfort, safety, and usability.
      o   Develop pocket parks in under-served areas where larger parks may not be feasible.
      o   Extend and connect existing trail networks to surrounding neighborhoods to create a more
          comprehensive recreational infrastructure.


3. Enhance Accessibility of Recreational Spaces
      Cottonwood Heights will strive to improve accessibility and connectivity by upgrading facilities,
      enhancing key walking and biking routes, and ensuring parks and trails are usable for people of all ages
      and abilities.




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plan I Mission Statement & Goals - 12.02.2025                        Page 15 of 17
    Key Actions:
    o   Retrofit existing parks and recreational facilities to meet or exceed ADA standards, ensuring that all
        residents can access them.
    o   Implement neighborhood and city-wide trait and pathway enhancements that result in a fully-
        connected and accessible trait system.
    o   Improve neighborhood connectivity by identifying and enhancing walking routes, pathways, and
        trail connections that link residents to nearby recreational amenities.
    o   Develop and maintain safe, neighborhood-appropriate walking and biking paths, ensuring that
        routes are comfortable, well-designed and suitable for a variety of users.
    o   Enhance lighting along key paths and trait corridors to improve safety, visibility, and usability, w hile
        being mindful of dark-sky goats.
    o   Inventory, maintain, and increase publicly accessible pedestrian cut-throughs to connect
        neighborhoods to each other and to community amenities. Evaluate existing cut-throughs for safety
        and accessibility.


4. Preserve Open Spaces
    The city will continue to prioritize the protection and stewardship of natural open spaces on public
    lands, while supporting conservation efforts on private property, such as the use of conservation or
    access easement where appropriate, to preserve ecological health, safeguard public access, and
    maintain its mountain-suburban character, alt while maintaining private property rights.


    Key Actions:
    o   Protect and maintain public access to open spaces, including canyons and traits within city
        boundaries.
    o   Promote the access to and acquisition of private tand(s) for traits and trait heads via easements and
        "right-of-way" designations.
    o   Prioritize tong-term preservation of natural and scenic resources through public land-use policies,
        partnerships, and stewardship efforts.
    o    Ensure open spaces remain ecologically healthy and resilient by supporting practices that protect
         habitats, reduce erosion, and maintain watershed functions.


5. Providing Sustainable and Connected Recreational Opportunities [sustainability]
    The city promotes equitable, connected, and sustainable access to parks, trails, and recreational
    amenities throughout Cottonwood Heights. It supports public health, community well-being, and long-
    term recreational needs through resource-efficient design, protection of natural features, and
    coordinated planning.
    o    Ensure equitable access to parks, traits, and recreational facilities for all neighborhoods and age
        groups.
    o    Expand and enhance the citywide trait and open space network to support recreation, active
         transportation, and environmental protection.
    o    Design parks and recreational facilities to minimize water and energy use, using efficient irrigation,
         native landscaping, and sustainable materials.


DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plan I Mission Statement & Goals -12.02.2025                         Page 16 of 17
    o    Protect and integrate natural features and open spaces into the recreation system to enhance
         environmental stewardship and community health.
    o    Prioritize redevelopment and enhancement of existing parks while strategically adding new
         facilities to meet future needs.
    o    Support recreational amenities that promote public health, social interaction, and quality of life,
         contributing to social sustainability.
    o    Coordinate recreation planning with land use and transportation to ensure safe, convenient, and
         connected access.




DRAFT Cottonwood Heights General Plan I Mission Statement & Goals - 12.02.2025                      Page 17 of 17
                               ( ~          (



                    Cottonwood Heights
                    Cuy brtu't'r11 1hr m11:,0111



