                    Appendix 6

                 STAFF REPORT
Discussion of UDOT's Concurrence Request Concerning
Temporary Closure of the Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail
  Underpass During Construction of UDOT's Planned
                   Mobility Hub
                   Mayor Bennion
  :   UDOT's Concurrence Request Concern ing Temp
              .           .          ,



Meeting Requested:         Business Meeting D   Work Session □   Other D
Public Hearing Needed?    Yes D No D Undetermined □
                           Denied D   Approved D Continued D
CM Approval or Denial
                           CM Signature:_
                                                ~~
                                                ~

Mayor Bennion will lead a discussion on UDOT's Concurrence Request.
                                  DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
                                  CARLOS M. BRACERAS, P.E.
                                  J,,°J:ecutive /Jirector
                                  LISA J. WILSON, P.E.
                                  Deputy Director of Engineering and Operations
  State of Utah
                                  BENJAMIN G. HUOT. P.E.
                                  Dep111y Director of Planning and lnvestme111
   SPENCER J. COX
      Governor

DEIDRE M. HENDERSON
  Lieutenant Governor




           January 7, 2026

           Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion
           Mayor, Cottonwood Heights
           2277 E. Bengal Blvd.
           Cottonwood Heights, UT 8412 l

           Subject:       UDOT Project No. S-R299(489), Big Cottonwood Canyon Environmental
                          Study, Salt Lake County, Utah (PIN 21400)
                          Section 4(f) Temporary Occupancy Concurrence Request

           Dear Mayor Bennion:
           The purpose of this letter is to notify you that the Utah Department of Transportation
           (UDOT) intends to apply the Section 4(f) temporary occupancy exception [23 Code of
           Federal Regulations (CFR) Section 774.13(d)] to one Section 4(f) recreation property
           under your jurisdiction: the Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail. UDOT requests your
           concurrence that the Big Cottonwood Canyon Project (BCC Project) meets the criteria for
           application of the temporary occupancy exception. This temporary occupancy finding is
           pursuant to Section 4(f) of the Department of Transportation Act of 1966 [49 United
           States Code (USC) Section 303(c), and 23 USC Section 138]; and Federal Highway
           Administration Section 4(f) implementing regulations (23 CFR Part 774).
           UDOT is preparing an environmental assessment for the BCC Project. The purpose of the
           BCC Project is to reduce wintertime traffic congestion on SR-190 from the intersection
           of SR-190 and Fort Union Boulevard in Cottonwood Heights through the town of
           Brighton in Big Cottonwood Canyon as directed by the Utah Legislature in Senate Bill 2
           in 2023. This bill directs UDOT to use certain Legislature-allocated funds to "provide
           enhanced bus service, tolling, a mobility hub, and resort bus stops for Big [and Little]
           Cottonwood Canyons."
           Two alternatives are evaluated in detail in the BCC Project EA:
                 •   No-action Alternative
                 •   Proposed Action
           The Proposed Action includes enhanced bus service, tolling, a mobility hub, and resort
           bus stops as its primary elements. The Proposed Action would also improve the existing


                             Administration• Telephone (801) 965-4000 • Facsimile (801 ) 965-4540 • www.udot.utah.gov
                 Calvin Rampton Complex• 4501 South 2700 West • Mailing Address P.O. Box 14 1510 • Salt Lake City, UT 841 14-1510
                                                                                                               Page 2


bus stops located at Cardiff Fork, Spmces Campground, Silver Fork, and Silver
Lake/Solitude Nordic Center; add a bus priority lane around Brighton Loop Road from
about Camp Tuttle Road to the southern tip of Brighton Loop Road; add a grade-
separated interchange on Wasatch Boulevard to access the mobility hub; and add a bus-
only transitway at the base of Big Cottonwood Canyon. The proposed improvements
would meet the purpose of the project by reducing wintertime traffic congestion as
directed by Senate Bill 2 in 2023.

Section 4(t)
Section 4(f) Recreation Properties
Section 4(£) applies to significant publicly owned parks and recreation areas that are open
to the public. The land must be officially designated as a park or recreation area, and the
officials with jurisdiction of the land must determine that its primary purpose is as a park
or recreation area.
UDOT has identified one Section 4(£) recreation property under Cottonwood Heights's
jurisdiction that would be potentially affected by the BCC Project - Big Cottonwood
Canyon Trail.

Temporary Occupancy Exception Criteria
Temporary occupancy occurs when a recreation property is occupied during construction
but the impacts are so minimal that they do not constitute a use within the meaning of
Section 4(£). The following conditions must be satisfied:
    l . The duration must be temporary, that is, less than the time needed for construction
        of the project, and there should be no change in ownership of the land;
   2.   The scope of the work must be minor, that is, both the nature and the magnitude
        of the changes to the Section 4(£) property are minimal;
   3.   There are no anticipated permanent adverse physical impacts, nor will there be
        interference with the protected activities, features , or attributes of the property on
        either a temporary or permanent basis;
   4.   The land being used must be fully restored, that is, the property must be returned
        to a condition which is at least as good as that which existed prior to the project;
        and
   5.   There must be documented agreement of the official(s) with jurisdiction over the
        Section 4(£) property regarding the above conditions.

Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail
The Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail is a paved multi-use trail designed for cyclists,
joggers, etc. It extends from Holladay to its terminus at the park-and-ride lot at the
intersection of Wasatch Boulevard and Big Cottonwood Canyon Road. The trail is west
of Wasatch Boulevard and connects to the park-and-ride lot on the east side of Wasatch
Boulevard via an underpass, or via a crosswalk at the signal on Wasatch Boulevard.
There is also a sidewalk that extends from the intersection of Wasatch Boulevard and Big
Cottonwood Canyon Road to an additional park-and-ride lot west of the intersection. The
park-and-ride lot at the Wasatch Boulevard intersection was built to facilitate travel into


                Administration • Telephone (80 I) 965-4000 • Facsimile (80 I) 965-4540 • www.udot.utah.gov
    Calvin Rampton Complex • 4501 South 2700 West• Mailing Address P.O. Box 141 51 0 • Salt Lake City, UT 84114-1510
                                                                                                               Page 3


Big Cottonwood Canyon; it was not constructed primarily for users of Big Cottonwood
Canyon Trail.

Section 4(f) Use of (Impact to) Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail
To support vehicle parking for the enhanced bus service associated with the Proposed
Action, a mobility hub would be built at the gravel pit site on the east side of Wasatch
Boulevard; the mobility hub would include a parking strncture for about 1,75 0 vehicles.
A one-way, bus-only transitway would run south from the mobility hub, paralleling
Wasatch Boulevard; travel through the current location for the Big Cottonwood Canyon
park-and-ride lot; and exit east onto Big Cottonwood Canyon Road about 0.15 mile up
Big Cottonwood Canyon (at about milepost 2.0). During construction of the bus-only
transitway from the mobility hub to Big Cottonwood Canyon Road, the underpass from
the Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail to the park-and-ride lot would need to be temporarily
closed. Trail users could still access the trail from the park-and-ride lot by using the
crosswalk at Wasatch Boulevard and Big Cottonwood Canyon Road, or by using the
park-and-ride lot west of the intersection and walking the sidewalk to the intersection.
Figure I illustrates the BCC Project's effects on the trail.
No right-of-way would be acquired from the trail property, and the trail would be
restored to the same or better conditions after construction. Access to the trail would be
maintained during construction. The park-and-ride lot west of the intersection (about
45 parking spaces) would remain open throughout construction and would not be altered.
Although the Proposed Action would result in a loss of parking spaces from the existing
park-and-ride lot and although the ultimate future use of the area as a park-and-ride lot is
undetermined, there would be a large net gain in parking overall with construction of the
parking strncture at the mobility hub.




                Administration• Telephone (801) 965-4000 • Facsimile (80 1) 965-4540 • www.udot.utah.gov
    Calvin Rampton Complex • 4501 South 2700 West• Mailing Address P.O. Box 141510 • Salt Lake City, UT 84 114-1510
                                                                                                                                                                                      Page4


Figure 1. Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail - Temporary Occupancy

                                       To Mobility Hub and'
                                        Parkin1fSlructure
                                                               .,                                          ·,,,..                          ·'""~,-
                                                                                                                                                   ..:r__ -,
                                                                                                                                       S.h Lake City    •
                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                                              f.(



                                                                                                                                                                                     :1~
                                                                                                                                            Mlllae<!~-•
                                                                                                                                                                      ,,W
                                                                                                                                           r,. ~!ada~
                                                                                                                                                                  :'\-::.:1 e ~
                                                                                                                                   Con~~~clty
                                                                                                                                                                          •'l .'-j
                                                                                                                                             (~"'!..                      -~"'-"I
                                                                                                                                                   ..,.,,:i~
                                                                                                                                              r,-~_\/'k~:~                   "'\     \'
                                                                                                                                             ·t r~~,_ ·-~ -
                                                                                                                                   LEGEND
                                                                                                                                   C-~J M unicipalities
                                                                                                                                   c:J Project Footprint
                                                                                                                                            Parcels
                                                                                                                                           Trail
                                                                                                                                   --~ Trail Underpass




                                                                                                                                       BIG COTTONWOOD CANYON TRAIL



                                                                                                                                                            '1'
                                                                                                                                                           70     140
                                                                                                                                                       USf((l
                                                                                                                                                1 lnC;n oquols 229 root

                                                                                                                                             Big Cottonwood
                                                                                                                                             ...,. .. ~ ~.?~X~
                                                                                                                                                    ~ • •STUD~




                               Administration• Telephone (SO I) 965-4000 • Facsimile (80 1) 965-4540 • www.udot.utah.gov
                   Calvin Rampton Complex • 450 1 South 2700 West• Mailing Address P.O. Box 141 510 • Salt Lake City, UT 84114-151 0
                                                                                                                Page 5



Temporary Occupancy
UDOT reviewed the temporary occupancy exception criteria and applied them to the
effects on the Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail. Because there would be no right-of-way
acquisition, the trail will be restored to the same or better conditions, and trail continuity
would be maintained throughout construction, UDOT ' s assessment is that there would be
no adverse effects to trail users either temporarily or pennanently; and therefore, the
temporary occupancy exception criteria are met and there would be no use of the Big
Cottonwood Canyon Trail.

Request for Concurrence
UDOT is requesting your concurrence that the BCC Project would not adversely affect
the recreational activities, features, or attributes of the Big Cottonwood Canyon trail and
as the official with jurisdiction over the trail, you agree that the temporary occupancy
criteria are satisfied. If you have any questions, please contact me at (801) 910-2035 or
lizrobinson@utah.gov.

Sincerely,

 ¼h6~~
Liz Robinson
Cultural Resources Program Manager
Utah Department of Transportation




Based on the Section 4(f) evaluation described above, I concur that the Proposed Action
will not adversely affect the recreational activities, features, and attributes of the Big
Cottonwood Canyon trail, and as the official with jurisdiction over the trail, I agree that
the temporary occupancy criteria (23 CFR Section 774.13(d)) are satisfied.



Gay Lynn Bennion                                                           Date
Mayor, Cottonwood Heights




                Administration • Telephone (80 1) 965-4000 • Facsimile (80 1) 965-4540 • www.udot.utah.gov
    Calvin Rampton Complex• 450 1 South 2700 West• Mailing Address P.O. Box 141510 • Sall Lake C ity, UT 84114-15 10
  Cottonwood Heights
  Ciry b,,u~m 1/,~ cull)<JIII



