    Appendix 4

 STAFF REPORT
General Plan Update

    Jim Spung
                                                                                                        ~                1.J;,.
                                                                                                            ~~o~~ood             Heights
                                                                                                             C17 ~ , ..wn tlv r•ny,,,u




                                Business Meeting D
Public Hearing Needed?          Yes D No IX! Undetermined D
 M Approval or Denial           Denied D Approved QI - ~l'.),t inued D
                                CM Signature: - -~            j;(___
UPDATE
After the January 20, 2026, joint work session, we are in a strong position to continue refining the plan and preparing for
meaningful public engagement. Staff will coordinate closely with the consultant to ensure a dear path toward adoption,
and we will keep the Council updated as we move forward. Below are key updates and next steps:
    1. Feedback lnteg.r ation. The input from both the City Council and Planning Commission will help further refine t he
       draft vis,ion statements, goals, and strategies for each plan element. City staff will collaborate with our lead
       project consultant to incorporate this feedback and define the next steps.
    2.   Modif,ied Contract and Budg,et. City staff will work with Landmark Design to create a modified contract and
         budget to ensure the project timeline and deliverables reflect the next phase of work. This will also include a
         roadmap to adoption, outlining clear milestones for moving forward.
    3 . Subcommittee Deliverables and Public Engagement. Staff and the consultant wi'II refine the subcommittee
         del,iverables, synthesizing them into a format understandable for the public Staff and the consultant will
         prepare a public engagement strategy for the Council for review. This plan will likely include online interactive
         engagement; an in-person open house; social media campaigns; and newsletter artides to gather broad
         community input.
    4. Public Feedback and Draft Plan Update:
       After th,e public engagement phase, staff and the consultant will work towards an updated draft plan. This
       refined p1lan will be reviewed by the Planning Commission and the City Council for further review and
       consideration.
    5. Ongoing Communication and Updates. Once staff and the consultant have developed a dear roadmap, we will
       present next steps to the Council, ensuring alignment and buy-in on the scope, t iming, and content before
       proceeding.

RECOMMENDATION
Discussion item only.

ATTACHMENTS
None.
        Cottonwood Heights
         Cuy btlll'«II the r1IIIJOIII



