   Appendix 8

STAFF REPORT
Old Mill Discussion
    Jim Spung
Public Hearing Needed?         Yes D No IX! Undetermined D
                               Deni:d D Approve~               fo/ued D
                               CM Signature: /__-~

BACKGROUND
The Planning Commission held a public hearing on the proposed demolition of the Cottonwood Paper Mill, located at
6851 S. Big Cottonwood Canyon Road, on January 21, 2026. The applicant seeks approval for demolition, citing the
building's unsafe structural conditions and designation as an "attractive nuisance." The applicant's case for demolition is
supported by multiple independent engineering re:ports, which confirm that the structure is severely compromised,
lacking a foundation, and prone to collapse due to its deteriorating unreinforced masonry. Efforts to r ehabilitate the
building have been found either infeasible or cost-prohibitive.

Under Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code Chapter 15.15: Demolition, the applicant must obtain a "Certificate of
Appropriateness" from the City Council and approval of a Conditional Use Permit from the Pl anning Commission before
demolishing or modifying historic structures, to ensure alignment with preservation goals. The Planning Commission is
tasked with reviewing the Conditional Use Permit, while the issuance of a Certificate of Appropr,i ateness r ests with the
City Council.

During the Planning Commission meeting, several public comments were received, with concerns over the loss of a
historic site. The mitigation measures pro1
                                          posed by the applicant included preserving elements of the Cottonwood Paper
Mill at the new Town Center, installing a commemorative plaque, creating a digital history of the mill, and following
state and local regulations for environmentally responsible deconstruction.

Looking forward, the process will involve continuing review of the Conditional Use Permit application, which must be
pending before the Planning Commission for at least one year from January 2026. City staff recommend an independent
third-party engineering review be completed to provide a comprehensive assessment of the structure's integrity. This
review, together with other material submitted by the applicant, will help inform future decisions by both the Planning
Commission and City Council. City staff will continue to provide updates and briefings to the Planning Commission and
City Council regarding the status and progress of the Conditional Use Permit review, as deemed necessary.

RECOMMENDATION
Discussion item only.

ATTACHMENTS
None.
        (   ~        I


  Cottonwood
  Ciry   th~
    b(l11Ym
             Heights
                rnll)OIII



