 
 
White City 
 
Who is filling out this report? 
Daniele Benigni 
Long Range Planner I 
dbenigni@msd.utah.gov 
3853773765 
 
Provide the following information for your moderate-income housing element: 
 
 
Link to adoption resolution or ordinance: 
https://msd.utah.gov/446/Moderate-Income-Housing-Plan 
 
 
Link to general plan, moderate income housing element: 
https://msd.utah.gov/446/Moderate-Income-Housing-Plan 
 
You will not be able to go back in the survey after making this selection. Please make 
sure you have entered all information up to this point. TYPE OF REPORT Please choose 
from the following options. Nearly all communities are in year 2-5 of their reporting. 
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting on the implementation plan tasks and timelines we reported on 
last year. 
1277
 
 
 
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting on the implementation plan 
tasks and timelines we reported on last year. 
 
2-5 YEAR REPORTING The following section is for communities in YEARS 2-5 of reporting. If 
the implementation plan has been updated or amended, progress made must be documented in 
this section of the report. You will enter the following information in this section: 1) Shapefiles 
and data related to zoning, entitled units, and accessory dwelling units (ADUs) 2) Your 
community's MIH strategies (including changes to strategies - if applicable) 3) Feedback and 
recommendation regarding the MIH program 
 
 
ZONING MAP 
Zoning Data Statute requires that counties and municipalities provide their current zoning map. 
This document should reflect current adopted ordinances. 
Please be aware that zoning data submitted will be shared with the Utah Geospatial 
Resource Center. 
 
 
Shapefiles (.shp) must be uploaded using this link. After uploading the file, please type 
"Uploaded" in the field below. If a shapefile is not available, please provide a link to maps 
and tables in the field below. If you have any questions, please contact mih@utah.gov. 
https://gis.msd.utah.gov/server/rest/services/MSD_Zoning/FeatureServer 
 
When did the last zoning map or text amendment occur? 
May 3 2024 
 
ENTITLED UNITS The following questions ask about entitled units. Entitled units are units that 
are legally allowed to be built under current zoning, existing development agreement, or other 
legal mechanism, (e.g., overlay zone). This data is collected to capture current built or zoned 
conditions. Please report entitled unit data as of May 1, 2025. 
Do not include any parcels or 
units that are only planned or in the process of being rezoned as residential. Example: if a 
parcel is zoned greenbelt on May 1, 2025 and a rezone application is in process, do not count it 
in this data. 
If some parcels can’t be developed due to barriers like geography, setbacks, or 
lack of infrastructure, you can explain these issues in the barriers or narrative sections of your 
report. 
 
 
Provide a count of entitled residential units (as defined above) that have NOT received a 
building permit. 
There are a total of 3 entitled residential units that have not received a building permit. 
1278
 
 
Less the units, parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous question, provide 
a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that include an overlay zone and the 
number of residential units that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that 
have NOT pulled a building permit. 
0, There are no overlay zones within the city. 
 
Less the units parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous two questions, 
provide a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that are currently zoned 
residential (single family, townhome, multi family, etc) and the number of residential units 
that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that have NOT pulled a building 
permit. 
There are a total of 3 parcels that could be built. 
 
From the counts reported above, provide a count of the entitled residential units which 
have received will serve letters from utilities or an equivalent that shows that all utilities 
and infrastructure (i.e. roads, water, sewer, power, phone, gas) are complete for the units, 
parcels, or lots. 
There are 0 entitled residential units which have received will serve letters from utilities or an 
equivalent that shows that all utilities and infrastructure (i.e. roads, water, sewer, power, phone, 
gas) are complete for the units, parcels, or lots. 
 
 
Describe any barriers to developing these units that have been experienced. These 
barriers could include infrastructure, public concerns, geographic constraints, etc. 
Providing detail here allows us to share the experiences and needs of communities to 
support the data reported above. 
All entitled lots are owned by an adjacent property owner. Presumably, these lots are valued by 
each owner as extra yard space. The barrier here is the willingness of the owner to sell the lot. 
 
Provide any notes or explanations for the data entered above (e.g., upcoming 
developments, clarifying data, context, etc.). 
White City is nearly built out, with the exception of these 3 lots. Nearly all of the City is 
subdivided, and staff have historically treated all single-family units within a subdivision as 
entitled. Subdivisions provide confirmation to staff that lot has received the necessary approvals 
and infrastructure for a residential unit to be built on it, thus entitling such unit. For this data, 
staff used subdivisions, address type, zone, and year built as parameters. Address type and 
zone helped identify which lots were considered “residential”. Year built helped identify which 
lots are currently vacant. Once the lots were identified under these parameters, staff used the 
permit management software to identify which lots have pulled a building permit. 
1279
 
 
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS 
 
The following questions ask about the number of Accessory Dwelling Units (internal, external, 
detached) in your county or municipality as of the report submission date. 
 
 
How does the county or municipality track known "for-rent" Accessory Dwelling Units? 
(select one) 
Count of business licenses or permits to rent issued 
 
Total known number of Accessory Dwelling Units recorded as of the report submission 
date: 
There are 3 recorded Accessory Dwelling Units in White City as of 2025. 
Total number of building permits issued to construct an ADU in the county or 
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025: 
There have been 3 building permits that have been issued to construct an ADU in White City 
between August 1, 2024 and July 31,2025. 
 
Total number of business licenses or permits to rent an ADU issued in the county or 
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025: 
There have been 0 business licenses that have been issued between August 1, 2024 and July 
31, 2025 to rent ADUs in White City. 
 
 
Total number of other types of permits or license issued for an ADU in the county or 
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 (if applicable, please 
provide the count and type of permit or license issued) 
There have been 0 permits issued for an ADU in White City granted between August 1, 2024 
and July 31, 2025. 
1280
 
 
 
REPORTING ON STRATEGY PROGRESS 
The following questions ask you to provide detailed progress on the moderate-income housing 
strategies between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025. A county or municipality must report on 
at least the minimum strategy requirements to comply in the subsequent report. 
 
1. Select a moderate income housing strategy from Utah Code that the county or 
municipality has included in its moderate-income housing element. 
(For the list of 
strategies, visit jobs.utah.gov/mihreporting or refer to Utah Code Section 10-9a-403 for 
municipalities and Section 17-27a-403 for counties) 
B 
E 
I 
O 
 
2. Reference the Implementation Plan for this strategy and list the timelines and 
benchmarks that were planned to be complete between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025. 
You may include actions taken before the 12-month reporting period in this report as an 
ongoing action if it: i) clearly supports the moderate income housing strategy from the 
initial report (e.g., previously adopted ordinance, approved a land use application, made an 
investment, or approved an agreement or financing); ii) the new report shows the action is 
still helpful to making progress on the strategy. 
B 
Q2 2024 – Q2 2025, Sego Lilly Drive ImprovementsQ3 2024, Grant Award for Sego Lilly 
Demonstration Project (SS4A Grant for Traffic Calming Methods)Q3 2024, Restriction of Trucks 
on Sego LillyQ2 2025, Update on Engineering Standards 
 
E 
Q3 2024, Survey about detach ADU Q2 2025, ADU Amnesty ProgramQ3 2025, ADU Fees 
Adjustment 
 
I 
Q4 2024 ADU subcommittee meeting 
O 
Q1 (Annually): Continue to Promote Housing Preservation through a program or partnership. 
1281
 
 
 
3. Describe each action taken between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement the 
tasks listed in Question 2. Include how the actions taken support implementation of the 
strategy. 
B 
White City during the current reporting period took several steps, to achieve goals that brought 
significant major benefits to the community not only by improving the existing effectiveness of 
the current infrastructure but also by safeguarding investments that can support moderate 
income housing and housing stability. From our 2024 MIH report we mentioned that for White 
City “Investment in active transportation is an important way to reduce household costs, freeing 
up income that could instead be used toward housing. Active transportation also allows White 
City residents to age in place by reducing reliance on personal automobiles, enabling them to 
stay in residences that they already own outright or that are affordable to them.” The Wasatch 
Regional Front Council (WFRC) 2023-2050 Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) identified Sego 
Lily Drive Road as a future active transportation route. After the continued participation in 
discussing the RTP in 2024 and 2025, between Q2 2024 and Q2 2025 there have been major 
improvements made into Sego Lily Drive Road. This project reconstructed the road with curbs 
and gutters, sidewalks, traffic calming features, new pavement, streetlights, and many other 
improvements. This was needed for several reasons including the age and condition of the 
roadway and curbs, lack of traffic calming measures, narrowness of the existing road and 
ultimately prepare this road for its future regional growth as a critical corridor.Additionally, White 
City has been actively working in pursuing relevant grants that could help the community with its 
infrastructure. (Q3 2024) On September 9th, 2024, White City, together with another 
community, were jointly awarded the Safe Streets for All Demonstration Grant (SS4ADG). The 
SS4ADG is a federal grant opportunity that allows municipalities to employ temporary measures 
on roadways that slow traffic and create safer streets. This technique will allow White City to 
explore different mechanisms for traffic calming and to study which mechanisms work best for 
the communities before investing in permanent infrastructure. These demonstration activities 
will target areas called out in the Walk White City plan and to help inform long term action plans. 
More broadly, SS4ADG will be used for a series of interconnected temporary safety 
improvements on streets in the community that will inform the Wasatch Front Regional Council 
(WFRC) Safety Action Plan as well as future efforts of the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services 
District and Salt Lake County.The project will employ temporary materials such as paint, road 
tape, and delineator posts to enact quick-build projects that re-allocate roadway space, in order 
to measure transportation safety impacts and inform permanent projects in the future. This 
project will take street safety approaches and countermeasures raised in the WFRC Safety 
Action Plan and test their effectiveness in the unique context of the MSD. The demonstrations 
will be strongly informed by the Safe System Approach; an approach formulated by the Federal 
Highway Administration. In White City, demonstrations will focus on slowing traffic and 
improving crossing visibility while also seeking opportunities for small public spaces that lend a 
more human scale to the street. These projects are intended to reduce conflicts between 
vehicles and other road users. White City Trail Crossings: Carnation, Larkspur, and Galena 
(Staff will test different strategies at each crossing). Potential strategies could include bulb-outs, 
median refuges, hi-visibility markings, daylighting, advance warning, and associated 
1282
 
 
placemaking. Key Community Intersections: Carnation-Larkspur and Galena-Poppy (important 
for school access). Corridor Traffic Calming: Larkspur (near Alta View) and Galena.We will 
measure the benefits of various interventions through data collection and evaluation within a 
determined trial period. For these demonstration areas in White City, key questions we will 
address include: 1)Does intersection street paint, bulb-outs, and addition of pedestrian space 
slow vehicular traffic at residential intersections? (speed counts)2)How does increased visibility 
and improved crossings at the students’ bus stop location improve feelings of safety and 
comfort? (survey or interview students and parents)3)Does designation of on-street pathways 
encourage increased pedestrian and bike traffic? (counts)4)Does designation of on-street 
pathways encourage slower vehicle traffic and more courteous driving behavior? (speed counts) 
(observation)5)Do painted crosswalks improve visibility of pedestrians at mid-block crossings ? 
(observation)To safeguard the improvements made into Sego Lily Drive Road, council members 
expressed concerns about the potential damage to the road infrastructure due to heavy traffic. 
Recommendations have been made in order to have Trucks weight limits established on Sego 
Lily Drive Road. During Q1 2025 preparations have been made, as signs are planned to be 
installed to indicate truck restrictions, though the specific weight limit is still being 
determined.Last, during Q2 2025, White City passed a resolution to adopt engineering standard 
drawings and specifications. For many years, while Salt Lake County Public Works Engineering 
handled local projects, White City simply followed the county’s Engineering and Flood Control 
Standard Drawings and Specifications. That arrangement changed when the Greater Salt Lake 
Municipal Services District assumed direct responsibility for White City’s engineering services. 
Recognizing the need for a clear, city specific framework, the council concluded that adopting its 
own set of standards would best serve residents and future development. On May 1, 2025, the 
council unanimously approved a new document titled “White City Engineering Standard 
Drawings and Specifications,” thereby establishing it as the official reference for all engineering 
work within the municipality. 
 
E 
Since the implementation of the White City Moderate Income Housing Plan 2020, Staff has 
worked to help White City in understanding how ADUs could positively impact the community. 
During the reporting period and the 12 months prior to it, several actions have been taken to 
help White City moving forward with Strategy E. In Q3 of 2024, Municipal Services District 
(MSD) Planning Staff presented survey results from a 2023 county wide initiative to identify 
public opinion towards accessory dwelling units (ADUs) as well as barriers to ADU construction 
to the White City Council (Council). This survey was distributed in effort to satisfy criteria for the 
State mandated annual Moderate Income Housing (MIH) Report. Like other jurisdictions in Salt 
Lake County, White City is required to make progress toward Strategy “E’ of the MIH report. 
This strategy specifies that a jurisdiction must “create or allow for, and reduce regulations 
related to, internal or detached accessory dwelling units in residential zones”. Twenty-six White 
City residents participated in the survey. Nineteen were in favor of the construction of ADUs in 
their neighborhood. Seven respondents indicated that they would like to see detached 
accessory dwelling units (DADUs) allowed in White City as they are currently prohibited. In 
response to these findings and the requirement for the city to continue to make progress toward 
Strategy E, Council directed Municipal Services District (MSD) Planning Staff to explore 
1283
 
 
scenarios where DADUs may be feasible and fit within the character of White City. Two 
members from the Council and one member from White City’s Planning Commission were 
appointed to form a subcommittee to help guide this study.There are four zones in White City in 
which single-family residential properties are located: R-1-8, R-1-21, A-1, and A2 . Most single- 
family homes, and properties in general, are located in the R-1-8 zone. The lot sizes in this zone 
are fairly consistent in size with an average of about 8,800 square feet. The configurations of 
the lots are also fairly consistent with two prominent lot shapes: rectangular (typically 70 ft by 
125 ft) and trapezoidal (varies in size). Residential lots zoned R1-8 are, on average, smaller 
than residential lots in the other zones. The smallest built residential lot is 6,500 square feet. 
Residential building footprints in R-1-8 are also, on average, smaller than residential building 
footprints in the other zones. The average residential building footprint for the primary structure 
is 1,200 square feet in this zone. Many homes in this zone are either single story homes or split 
level. In R zones, all structures are restricted to a combined maximum lot coverage of 40%. 
Accessory structures in the rear yard are restricted to a maximum rear yard coverage of 25%. 
There is no maximum coverage for rear yards in the A zones. However, the A-1 zone has a 
maximum overall coverage of 30% while the A-2 zone has a maximum of 70%. Accessory 
structures are restricted to a maximum height of 20 ft in any R zone and 35 ft in an A zone. 
Internal ADUs are currently not allowed in the R-1-21, or any A zone.After analyzing the existing 
conditions, the subcommittee and staff believe DADUs could be feasible and fit within the 
community character of White City with restrictions. Staff recommends the Council consider the 
following restrictions: 1)DADUs are only allowed on residential properties with a lot size of 8,000 
sq ft or greater. 2)DADUs are only allowed in the rear yard. 3)DADUs shall not exceed a certain 
size. The subcommittee recommends a 600-800 sq ft size limitation based on lot size 4)The 
minimum setback for a DADU shall be 5 ft from the rear and side property lines and 6 ft from the 
primary structure. These standards have been supported by Unified Fire Department and the 
MSD Building Official. 5)The height of the DADU is limited to the height of the existing house, 
except for DADUs on top of garages, then the height limitation is “x” ft. Staff recommends 24 ft. 
6)The subcommittee recommends that ADU may be built on top of existing garages that are 
located in the rear yard and are exempt from setback standards as long as they meet all other 
land use and building requirements. Restricting DADUs in terms of scale and location on the 
property will maintain the single-family character of White City. The Council will have to decide 
whether to allow DADUs in all zones or only the R-1-8 zone as internal ADUs are only allowed 
in the R-1-8 zone. Staff recommended having a public input session including potentially 
distributing another survey on this topic before it is heard by the Planning Commission and 
Council.At the end of Q3 2024, Staff was directed by the White City Council to create a survey 
to distribute to White City residents to gather public opinion regarding detached accessory 
dwelling units (DADUs). With 54% of survey respondents being in favor of DADU’s and 35% of 
survey respondents not in favor, staff determined there are more residents that are in favor of 
permitting DADUs in White City than those who are not. Residents in favor of DADU’s are on 
average younger than those who oppose DADU’s. This may suggest a difference in perspective 
regarding housing types among different generations. However, most of the respondents in 
favor of DADUs indicated that they would support reasonable restrictions to DADUs in White 
City. In response to the findings obtained through the surveys done, an additional tool identified 
by staff to help with strategy E for White City was the creation of an Amnesty Program (Q2 
1284
 
 
2025), a policy concept aimed at bringing existing ADUs into compliance.The idea behind the 
Amnesty Program is to legalize unpermitted ADUs while maintaining safety and habitability 
standards, without imposing undue burdens on property owners. The program would offer a 
pathway to compliance that may include relaxed zoning standards, fee reductions, or modified 
inspection procedures. Because of the complexity involved, staff initiated preliminary 
discussions in June 2025 with representatives from Current Planning, the Building Department, 
and Business Licensing. These discussions are focused on understanding the local context of 
ADUs in for the community, reviewing previous enforcement cases, and identifying which 
regulations may need to be amended to support the program’s success.To achieve all this, the 
goal is to begin drafting guidelines and identifying specific policy or code changes that would 
support implementation together with regular coordination between departments and 
establishing the foundational research necessary to shape the program. These guidelines will 
ultimately be brought forward for broader discussion, community input, and consideration by the 
Planning Commission and Council.This work supports Strategy E by proactively addressing 
regulatory barriers, creating a more inclusive approach to housing, and recognizing the role that 
ADUs play in increasing the availability of moderate income housing options in White City. The 
Amnesty Program, once fully developed, is expected to strengthen code compliance while 
supporting long-term housing affordability and neighborhood stability.Additionally, in Q3 2025, to 
help in creating a better structure and implementation process for ADU processes, White City 
implemented the following fees:1)General Business License, ADU License, $50.002)Land Use 
Fees, ADU – Includes limited agency review, $175.00 
 
I 
During Q4 2024 the ADU subcommittee met to discuss further how to advance strategy I but no 
action has been taken yet but the subcommittee will keep meeting and discuss about this 
strategy and the best way to present it to the community and how to implement it. 
 
O 
White City continues to work with SLCo’s Lead Safe Housing Program as needed. 
1285
 
 
 
4. 
Describe each land use regulation or land use decision made between August 1, 
2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement this strategy. Include how the regulations or 
decisions support efforts to implement the strategy. 
B 
Engineering standards drawings and specifications were adopted by Resolution 2025-05-03 
 
E 
During this reporting period, no land use decisions have been made yet to further implement 
this strategy. The Subcommittee for ADUs recommended that the Council direct staff to draft 
ordinance language that would permit DADUs in White City with the following restrictions:1)A 
cap shall be placed on the number of DADUs permitted in White City2)Properties with DADUs 
must be owner occupied3)DADUs must be located in the rear yard of the property4)Properties 
must have adequate onsite parking to accommodate a DADU5)Properties with a DADU must be 
at least 9,000 sqft.6)Only one accessory dwelling unit is allowed per single-family lot.7)The 
DADU are limited to maximum size of 600 or 700 sqft.8)No short-term rentals are allowed in an 
ADU9)DADU must be designed in a way that aesthetically fits within the city10)Properties with 
DADUs must receive approval from the water and sewer providers11)Inspections for health, 
safety and compliance are required every 5 years. 
 
I 
No land use regulation or decision has been made during the reporting period. 
 
O 
No land use decisions were made in relation to this strategy. White City appreciates the 
opportunity to partner with Salt Lake County in advertising the fantastic mitigation programs 
available to local households. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
What barriers were encountered by the county or municipality between August 1, 
2024 and July 31, 2025 while implementing this strategy? Documenting barriers does 
not exempt the community from reporting plan progress The minimum required number 
of strategies must advance for compliance, regardless of the barriers faced. If no barriers 
were experienced, write "None." 
B 
The Safe Streets for All (SS4A) Grant, a federal grant from the U.S. Department of 
Transportation, is currently on hold as the new administration reviews the program. At this time, 
there is no estimated timeline for when we will receive an update on the program’s approval or 
when we can resume work on the Safe Street Demonstration and Impact Assessment Project. 
1286
 
 
E 
One barrier to implementing Strategy E is that there was low participation in the survey 
regarding barriers to ADU construction. Because of this, MSD Staff kept the survey open longer, 
and will seek more public input at upcoming community events that typically see large crowds of 
White City residents. This extended public feedback process has led to a delay in findings, 
presentation to White City Council, and paths forward. 
 
I 
None 
 
O 
None 
 
 
 
6. 
Describe how the market has responded to the implementation of the strategy 
(e.g., units permitted, units entitled, deed restrictions, rezones, households displaced during 
redevelopment, changes in rents, etc.). 
B 
No market response have been observed during the reporting period. Investment in active 
transportation is a long-term approach, that may not yield results for several years. Over time, 
staff would rely on Census data on the Year Householder Moved into Unit and Esri data on the 
percentage of annual household budget spent on transportation in order to assess strategy 
success. 
 
E 
No market response have been observed during the reporting period. 
 
I 
No market response has been observed during the reporting period. 
 
O 
No market response have been observed during the reporting period. 
1287
 
 
 
 
7. 
Links to supporting documentation (Optional) 
B 
E 
I 
O 
 
 
Attachment to supporting documentation (Optional) 
B 
E 
I 
O 
1288
 
 
 
 
FEEDBACK & RECOMMENDATIONS 
What types of support would be helpful to your community as you implement the 
moderate income housing strategies? (Select all that apply) 
Model ordinances.,Case studies for strategies,Staff resources,Reporting technical 
assistance,Guidebooks for planning and reporting 
 
 
Describe any recommendations on how the state can support the county or municipality 
in implementing the moderate income housing strategies? (If none, please write N/A) 
N/A 
 
If your community has a fixed guideway transit station or is within 1/2 mile of a rail station, and is 
required to adopt the Station Area Plan strategy, please ensure that you do the following: 
1) Submit your approved station area plan to your applicable metropolitan planning organization 
(Wasatch Front Regional Council or Mountainland Association of Governments). If they 
determine that your station area plan is compliant with state code, they will provide your 
community a written certification of compliance. 
2) Provide us (HCD) with the certification of compliance, either by going back to the optional 
attachment page earlier in this report OR emailing it to mih@utah.gov. 
For more information on this requirement, see Utah Code 10-9a-403.1 Section (10). 
 
Clicking the "Next" button at the bottom of the form will submit your report. 
1289
 
 
 
White City - amended response in consultation with Housing & Community Development 
staff 
 
Strategy O 
My understanding about the Lead Safe Housing Program through SLCo was thatit was 
presented to Council and later advertised through the city newsletters for residents to read more 
about it in order to help them understand if to apply to it or not, in case they need it. During the 
reporting period for the MIH Report, July 2024 to August 2025, White City had no households 
applying to the program. MSD Staff will continue to remind Council and residents through 
newsletters about the following program and its benefits, and the MSD will continue to work with 
SLCo and this program as needed. Additionally, now that I am following more White City, I have 
been looking around for other options tohelp with Strategy O and I found a potential partner that 
could help us but again it is all new and in the early stages as idea. 
 
My understanding was that everything was presented and communicated to the people in the 
year 2024, I think around April and that later we kept reminding about the program. I started to 
actively look more into how to help with strategy (O) in August of this year as I was asked to 
follow more White City. We had our first meeting with a new partner in September to understand 
how they could help White City but also MSD communities to help people afford ADUs. 
1290
