1089
implementing the moderate income housing strategies? (technical assistance, 
resources, data, etc.)
N/A
 
White City
Type of Jurisdiction
Municipality (City, Town, Metro Township)
Link to Plan
https://wc-lrp-gslmsd.hub.arcgis.com/documents/wc-moderate-income-
housing-plan-final-sep-01-2022/explore
Link to Ordinance or Resolution
https://www.whitecity-ut.org/sites/default/files/fileattachments/council/
meeting/packets/3231/cc_packet_9-1-2022_wcmt.pdf
Has the municipality amended the Moderate Income Housing Element since the 
last notice of compliance was issued? 
No
Strategy #1
(E) create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or detached 
accessory dwelling units in residential zones
Describe each action taken by the municipality during the previous 12 months to 
implement this moderate income housing strategy.
Between June 2022 and June 2023 White City performed an entire 
comprehensive code up of its land use ordinances to ensure compatibility 
with existing development and compliance with applicable state laws with 
the inclusion of opportunities for moderate-income housing. These updates 
included reducing regulations related to internal accessory dwelling units, 
discussed in detail in the next questions.
In June 2023, the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District, on behalf of 
the communities it represents including White City, distributed an accessory 
dwelling unit survey to identify further barriers preventing the creation of 
accessory dwelling units. The results from this survey will create further land use 
decisions that the White City Council will address in the next 12 months. These 
will include any updates to the land use ordinances that will reduce regulations 
1090
related to internal accessory dwelling units.
Describe each land use regulation or land use decision made by the municipality 
during the previous 12 month period to implement this strategy. 
In June 2023, the White City Council approved internal accessory dwelling units 
in the R-1-21 zone, A-2 zone, and A-1 zone in the city. With the adoption of this 
legislation, White City now allows internal accessory dwelling units in 100% of 
White City’s single-family residential zones and all zones where the primary use 
is single-family residential.
In June 2023, the White City Council approved an increase in allowed surface 
area for parking on single-family residential lots. The previous parking 
regulation limited the property owner to parking within 50% of the front yard, 
property owners can now use 50% of the back yard for additional parking. 
This will allow qualified properties to adequately meet the 1 parking stall 
requirement for internal accessory dwelling units. 
Describe how any land use regulations or land use decisions support the 
municipality's efforts to implement the strategy.
All property owners of single-family households in White City can now apply 
for an internal accessory dwelling unit. All property owners of single-family 
households in White City who can move a car into the backyard can now meet 
the minimum parking requirements to create the internal accessory dwelling unit 
without impacting on-street parking in the neighborhood. These are the major 
barriers White City has currently identified in preventing residents from applying 
for an internal accessory dwelling unit. 
Describe any barriers encountered by the municipality in the previous year in 
implementing this strategy.
Although we have now lowered the threshold to permit accessory dwelling units 
in the community,  many of the houses are being used for short-term rentals, 
even against the City’s regulations that do not allow short-term rentals. A 
percentage of homes in the community are not used for long-term housing. 
It is difficult to find illegal accessory dwelling units to speak with owners about 
the barriers to properly permitting their units.  
It’s incredibly difficult for the City to issue violations for short-term rentals. 
The city is too small to have enforcement officers in the community 24/7 to 
monitor these properties, and it’s very difficult to identify a short-term rental 
without using online advertisements. All of the code enforcement in White City is 
complaint-based, and some residents prefer to stay next to a short-term rental 
than a long-term rental. For these reasons, it has still been difficult for the City 
1091
to get new internal accessory dwelling units permitted.
Number and type of new units permitted 
In 2022 to 2023 White City Metro Township issued 2 business licenses for 
internal accessory dwelling units.
Number and type of affordable units added
We do not require the applicant to provide rent rates for new units created so 
we do not currently have this data.
Number and type of affordable units rehabbed
There were zero units rehabbed and we would not be able to confirm whether 
they were affordable or not.
Number and type of units converted from other uses
White City issued two building permits to convert basements into internal 
accessory dwelling units.
Change in local rent amounts
We do not have any available data showing the local rent change between 
2022-2023. The most recent rent data we can provide is from 2021 before the 
moderate-income housing plan was required to be updated.
Change in the number of people displaced
The owner occupancy rate in White City is approximately 85% we do not 
anticipate anyone has been displaced within the last year.
Change in the number of households experiencing housing cost burden
The most recent data we have on this is from 2021, when the cost-burdened 
households with a mortgage were 30% of the total households with a 
mortgage. The percent of cost-burdened renters in 2021 was 58% of the total 
occupied units paying rent (Census DP 04, ACS 2021).
Change in the share of household income spent on housing
According to ESRI Community Analyst Household Budget Expenditures reports 
from 2023 the average percentage of expenditures spent on housing was 33.3% 
this percentage does not differentiate between those renting and those paying 
a mortgage.
The number of rezones associated with MIH strategies 
The amendments made by the Council to reduce regulations for IADUs applied 
1092
to all residential and agricultural zones. Property owners did not need to re-
zone to receive the benefits.
Provide narrative describing the market responses the jurisdiction has observed 
during the implementation of strategies. 
White City Metro Township is slowly seeing the creation of internal accessory 
dwelling units in the community. However, the community is largely long-
standing residents with most residents having lived there since 2000. It is 
likely that these internal accessory dwelling units are being used for family 
members and therefore market responses would not be prevalent immediately 
in available demographic data. Increasing the number of internal accessory 
dwelling units is White City’s most viable option to increase moderate income 
housing based on the community’s population and current land use. 
Strategy #2
(B) demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation or expansion of infrastructure 
that facilitates the construction of moderate income housing
Describe each action taken by the municipality during the previous 12 months to 
implement this moderate income housing strategy.
In May 2023, White City put the sego lily road infrastructure project out to bid 
and is currently reviewing applications for construction. Once an application 
is chosen, White City intends to start construction as soon as possible, the 
estimated start date is spring 2024. This project will calm traffic in White City’s 
single-family residential neighborhoods and provide bicycling and walking as 
secondary or primary modes of transportation. The project will also provide 
street lighting and high back curb and gutter. The Sego lily corridor connects 
White City’s single-family residential housing to grocery stores, retail, and 
places of worship. Making it easier for residents to access necessary amenities 
for daily life. The project will still accommodate parking on the street, making 
it easier for properties to add internal accessory dwelling units without 
causing additional parking issues. When the entire project is done, the city will 
contribute more than 1.5 million investment to the street corridor. 
Describe each land use regulation or land use decision made by the municipality 
during the previous 12 month period to implement this strategy. 
A land use decision was not required to implement the sego lily project. 
However, with the successful installation of the project and the retention of 
available on-street parking, the White City Council can consider reducing or 
removing the off-street parking requirement for internal accessory dwelling 
units next year. 
1093
Describe how any land use regulations or land use decisions support the 
municipality's efforts to implement the strategy.
The City Council is trying to bring all roads in the community to higher standards 
that provide opportunities for walking, biking, personal vehicles, and transit, 
as well as keeping on-street parking. This will help make it more likely for 
residents to increase the density of their single-family residential houses with a 
product that can appeal to multiple demographics and limit the impact on the 
neighborhood. White City’s only option for the expansion of housing units is to 
increase the density of the City’s uniform single-family fabric. 
Improving key transportation corridors in the community can also reduce 
household costs. In 2023 the average resident in White City spent 10% of their 
income on transportation.
Describe any barriers encountered by the municipality in the previous year in 
implementing this strategy.
The largest barrier the community has faced is the incredible spike in 
construction costs after COVID-19. The community had planned for a certain 
budget but received quotes for the project 1.5-2 times the original estimate. 
This has delayed the construction timeline and therefore has delayed the 
community’s supplements land use decisions.
Number and type of new units permitted 
Not Applicable
Number and type of affordable units added
Not Applicable
Number and type of affordable units rehabbed
Not Applicable
Number and type of units converted from other uses
Not Applicable
Change in local rent amounts
Not Applicable
Change in the number of people displaced
Not Applicable
Change in the number of households experiencing housing cost burden
Not Applicable
1094
Change in the share of household income spent on housing
Not Applicable
The number of rezones associated with MIH strategies 
Not Applicable
Provide narrative describing the market responses the jurisdiction has observed 
during the implementation of strategies. 
The investment in infrastructure in major corridors in the community will not 
only provide on-street parking, as previously stated but will also provide 
opportunities for walking and biking to important community amenities nearby. 
This includes grocery stores and schools. This infrastructure improvement will 
contribute to the community’s safe routes to school network. The sego lily 
corridor intersects with eight safe routes to school identified by the Canyons 
school district.
Strategy #3
(O) apply for or partner with an entity that applies for state or federal funds 
or tax incentives to promote the construction of moderate income housing, an 
entity that applies for programs offered by the Utah Housing Corporation within 
that agency's funding capacity, an entity that applies for affordable housing 
programs administered by the Department of Workforce Services, an entity 
that applies for affordable housing programs administered by an association 
of governments established by an interlocal agreement under Title 11, Chapter 
13, Interlocal Cooperation Act, an entity that applies for services provided by 
a public housing authority to preserve and create moderate income housing, 
or any other entity that applies for programs or services that promote the 
construction or preservation of moderate income housing
Describe each action taken by the municipality during the previous 12 months to 
implement this moderate income housing strategy.
In 2023, staff completed an analysis of lead paint exposure risk in White City. 
This analysis helped identify households that would most benefit from Salt 
Lake County’s Lead Safe Housing Program, which provides needed funding 
to mitigate lead paint exposure and allow owners and renters to stay in their 
homes. In June 2023, an article on the Lead Safe Housing Program was shared 
through the White City Council and the White City Community Council. In August, 
staff will attend a community-wide event in White City to share additional 
information with residents.
Describe each land use regulation or land use decision made by the municipality 
during the previous 12 month period to implement this strategy. 
1095
No land use decisions are anticipated in relationship to this strategy. Instead, 
staff is pursuing education and outreach to connect residents with available 
programs. The lead-risk analysis performed by staff is intended to help program 
leaders target outreach to residents with the greatest need. Materials have 
been shared through the MSD newsletter and social media and will be shared 
at the White City Southeast Township Days in August.
Describe how any land use regulations or land use decisions support the 
municipality's efforts to implement the strategy.
No land use decisions were involved with the implementation of this strategy. 
Describe any barriers encountered by the municipality in the previous year in 
implementing this strategy.
No barriers were encountered with the Lead Safe Housing Program. 
Number and type of new units permitted 
Not Applicable
Number and type of affordable units added
Not Applicable
Number and type of affordable units rehabbed
So far, we have not received the data on how many houses applied for the lead 
safe housing program through Salt Lake County. 
Number and type of units converted from other uses
Not Applicable
Change in local rent amounts
Not Applicable
Change in the number of people displaced
Failing to mitigate lead paint exposure in housing can result in severe health 
complications, which would force a household to relocate. White City Metro 
Township hopes to increase the number of housing units to apply to program in 
order to mitigate potential displacement.
Change in the number of households experiencing housing cost burden
Not Applicable
Change in the share of household income spent on housing
Not Applicable
1096
The number of rezones associated with MIH strategies 
Not Applicable
Provide narrative describing the market responses the jurisdiction has observed 
during the implementation of strategies. 
2023 serves as a baseline year for recording White City’s participation in the 
Lead Safe Housing Program. Prior to this summer, staff were not involved in 
outreach for the program (facilitated by Salt Lake County). In the future, staff 
will be able to compare the number of 2023 participants to participants in 
2024, 2025, and 2026. This will provide a direct measurement of how staff’s 
interventions and education efforts are affecting market response. Our goal is 
to remove all housing insecurity that arises from lead paint exposure in renter- 
and owner-occupied units. In future years, we will also expand these efforts to 
boost enrollment in the County’s Green and Healthy Homes Initiative.
Do you have additional strategies to report? 
No
How does the jurisdiction track Accessory Dwelling Units?
Building permits, rental licenses, and land use permits.
Total Number of Accessory Dwelling Units in the Jurisdiction
Two internal accessory dwelling units were permitted in 2022.
Total number of building permits to construct an ADU in the jurisdiction granted 
the previous year: 
One building permit was applied for and issued. 
Total number of business licenses or permits to rent an ADU in the jurisdiction 
granted the previous year: 
One business license was applied for and issued.
Total number of other types of permit or license issued for an ADU in the 
jurisdiction granted the previous year: 
A planning permit was issued two both accessory dwelling units stating it was 
compliant with the community’s land use codes.
What types of support would be helpful to your community as you implement 
the moderate income housing strategies? 
Housing supply data, Housing needs data, Case studies for strategies, Staff 
resources
