WHITE CITY, METRO TOWNSHIP
WHITE CITY, METRO TOWNSHIP
COUNTY:  SALT LAKE
AOG/MPO:  WFRC
REQUIRED ITEMS:  3
TOTAL MENU ITEMS:  3
MAJOR TRANSIT INVESTMENT COORIDOR:  YES
STRATEGIES
Form questions (E) create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, accessory 
dwelling units in residential zones
(L) preserve existing MIH
(W) (V for County) any other program or strategy implemented by the 
municipality to address the housing needs of residents of the 
municipality who earn less than 80% of the area median income
2019 (REQUIRED & SUBMITTED)
GOALS (2)
Create more moderate-income housing options.
White City Metro Township desires to keep its current moderate-income housing safe and affordable. To do so, White City will 
identify the specific locations of current MIH. White City will also establish a good landlord program and achieve code enforcement 
(See White City Metro Township MIH Plan 2019).
Support measures and efforts that contribute to neighborhood stabilization.
KEY TASKS (5a)
The above strategy works to make MIH units where there are none currently by 
allowing ADUs. ADUs can become a second source of income for desiring families. 
ADUs are also typically more affordable places to live than traditional housing (i.e. 
single-family homes). White City must write and adopt an ADU Ordinance, which will 
include a public process where ADUs will be carefully defined and the type of ADUs 
allowed, and where, will be outlined. Discussion of ADU specifications will occur at 
public meetings and throughout the general plan process.
To preserve MIH, where MIH is located within the metro will be identified first. Patterns in the spatial distribution of MIH will be 
noted and analyzed. The identification of MIH will guide specific next steps. There is some concern regarding housing and yard 
disrepair. Such conditions can bring down property values near the property in disrepair, which can be economically detrimental to 
moderate-income households in the vicinity. Achieving more regular code enforcement will help protect housing and prevent 
housing conditions from deteriorating. Additionally, the creation of a good landlord program can incentivize landlords to maintain 
safe and comfortable housing. This is important in preventing the creation of slumlords who provide unsafe housing to vulnerable 
households without facing consequences.
Provide exterior curb-appeal grants to 5 homes per year through 2024 (25 total). 
Support applications and funding from the Green and Healthy Homes Initiative to 
conduct critical needs home repair in low and moderate-income housing. Support 
applications and funding from the Utah Weatherization Assistance Program to help 
low-income residents, especially the elderly and disabled, to reduce energy 
consumption through home improvements. Support applications and funding from 
Assist Utah’s Emergency Home Repair, Accessibility Design, and Aging in Place 
programs. Conduct and use a sidewalk inventory, and connect any sidewalk gaps to 
promote walkability and enhance destination accessibility.
PROGRESS (5e)
Some information regarding ADUs has been provided to White City officials. This 
was provided at the Housing Element Open House and during discussion at planning 
commission and general plan steering committee meetings. Information was well-
received.
Code enforcement has been increased. The Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District hired additional staff to increase capacity 
to five code enforcement officers.
This task has not been completed.
BARRIERS (5f)
It is too soon to see how the various tasks will impact White City.
It is too soon to see how the various tasks will impact White City.
It is too soon to see how the various tasks will impact White City.
2020 (REQUIRED & NOT-
SUBMITTED)
GOALS (2)
No data
No data
No data
KEY TASKS (5a)
No data
No data
No data
PROGRESS (5e)
No data
No data
No data
BARRIERS (5f)
No data
No data
No data
2021 (REQUIRED & SUBMITTED)
GOALS (2)
Same as 2019
Preserve MIH
• Help low and moderate-income residents to identify and apply for grants and 
funding opportunities
that do, such as the Green and healthy Homes initiative and the Utah Weatherization 
Assistance
Program, among others.
• Support better housing conditions in part by identifying infrastructure investments, 
such as fixing
sidewalk gaps, that further facilitate MIH and the success of MIH families.
KEY TASKS (5a)
1. Draft an accessory dwelling unit ordinance that meets the stated needs.
2. Work with the public, Planning Commission, and the Council to tailor the 
ordinance to White City.
3. Adopt the ordinance.
4. Propagate information about ADUs to residents.
1. Achieve code enforcement.
2. Gather data of safe/adequate housing conditions during code enforcement operations throughout
202 (and carrying on).
3. Analyze data, numerically and spatially.
4. Understand housing conditions.
5. Consider implementing a good landlord program to hold landlords accountable.
6. Ensure future land use map created in 2021-2021 General Plan does not zone out low and
moderate-income housing.
7. Update land use ordinances to prevent purchaser of two or more lots from tearing down White
City’s existing houses on those lots, combining lots, and building a “McMansion” on the new lot.
8. Create action plan for helping residences stay compliant.
1. Identify grants and other funding opportunities.
2. Apply for infrastructure-related grants.
3. Develop public engagement strategy to share information about household-level 
grants
with residents.
a. Create a website for Long Range Planning for White City, where information about
housing including programs for MIH families, can be housed.
b. Include “housing” as one of the twelve planning themes (one monthly throughout
2021) and include various events that hep propagate this information and answer
resident questions.
PROGRESS (5e)
Task One – Completed.
Task Two – Completed.
Task Three – Completed. The Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit ordinance for White 
City was
adopted in October 2021.
Task Four – In process.
Results – Residents in White City can now have internal accessory dwelling units in 
their houses and apply for building permits or business licenses to rent them out. We 
have not collected any data yet due to the short time since adoption of the 
ordinance.
Task One – Additional code enforcement staff were hired, which has allowed necessary code
enforcement to be achieved.
Task Two – All primary functions of planning, code enforcement, building and business licensing have
been moved to a new tracking software called Citiworks this allows high quality data acquisition and
recording issues.
Task Three – All primary functions of planning, code enforcement, building and business licensing have
been moved to a new tracking software called Citiworks that is a GIS based system to better analyze
issues and trends in the community.
Task Five – Staff reviewed the implementation of a good landlord program. Research showed emerging
awareness that these programs tend to lead to discrimination in housing. This strategy has been
dismissed.
Task Six – The General Plan has been completed by the steering committee and is in the adoption
process. Proposed adoption is February 2022. The future land use map retains existing housing and
encourages opportunities for divers housing options.
1. Task one is complete. White City has secured funding and completed an RFP for the 
Walk
White City Plan. It is projected to be done August 2022.
2. Task two is in process. There are multiple projects being worked on to complete an
inventory of infrastructure in White City like the Walk White City Plan which will yield 
a
full sidewalk inventory.
3. Task three is complete. There is a long range planning web page that hosts surveys, 
updates, links to information, and documents needed for residents.
BARRIERS (5f)
So far, there has been no data collection as a result of the following tasks being 
completed.
In 2019, a good landlord program was proposed as a potential aid to this goal, but that has since been dismissed for its generally 
discriminatory effects. Additionally, the community has strong NIMBY-ism to any zoning other than single-family residential or 
agricultural. Not having a full inventory of the current MIH housing has made it difficult to create an action plan for residences to 
stay compliant.
There has not yet been a deviation from the desired outcome.
62
63
64
