                                             T
                                   CITY COUNCIL
                           AGENDA SUMMARY FORM
                           COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

          MEETING DATE:    May 19, 2021
           AGENDA ITEM:    AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF TAYLORSVILLE APPROVING TEXT AMENDMENTS TO
                            TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE CHAPTER 13. 21; SECTION 13. 36. 130; AND SECTION
                                     13. 36. 200, RELATED TO PRIVATE LANES AND SHARED DRIVEWAYS.

                  FILE#:   4Z21

PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED:     Yes    0 No

    ORDINANCE REQUIRED:    Q Yes       No

   RESOLUTION REQUIRED:      Yes    0 No

                AUTHOR:    Jim Spung, AICP, Senior Planner
             PRESENTER:    Jim Spung, AICP, Senior Planner
               SUMMARY:    The City of Taylorsville is requesting a text amendment to the Taylorsville
                           Municipal Code Chapter 13. 21; Section 13. 36. 130; and Section 13. 36. 200, related
                           to private lanes and shared driveways.


                           An evolving local housing market is placing increased pressure on communities that
                           have traditionally focused on single- family detached residential construction, to
                           shift and accommodate smaller infill products that maximize efficiency and increase
                           affordability. The demand for housing in the Salt Lake Valley has substantially
                           increased in the last decade, which has added to the pressures of providing more
                           housing stock in primarily built-out areas.

                           City staff has seen a tremendous influx in the number of inquiries related to the
                           construction of townhouse development. Just this year, there have been five
                           applications requesting a re-zone to accommodate townhouse projects ( with more
                           anticipated in the future). The shared driveway arrangement is a common solution
                           for townhouse development; however, the Taylorsville Land Development Code
                           does not allow it. A shared driveway would allow several units to gain access to a
                           public or private street and minimize the number of curb cuts and vehicle conflict
                           points— a safer alternative for pedestrians and motorists.



                           The proposed amendment allows up to four single- family detached and 10 single-
                           family attached dwelling units to gain access via a private lane/ shared driveway
                           arrangement and introduces more flexibility in design while addressing potentially
                           negative impacts associated with shared driveway development. Below are notable
                           standards regulating shared driveway arrangements.




                                               1
                                        Access must be from a public or private street and shall not exceed 300 feet
                                        in length.
                                        Shared driveways exceeding 150 feet in length must have an approved
                                        vehicle turn-around.

                                        A shared driveway cannot extend a stub or cul- de- sac street beyond the
                                        distance allowed in City Code.
                                        The drivable surface must be a minimum 20 feet wide and be a solid surface
                                        designed to support the weight of emergency vehicles.
                                        Flag lots may not gain access via a shared driveway.
                                        Parking on the shared driveway is allowed per International Fire Code
                                        standards.


                                        Minimum building setback and lot dimensional requirements of the
                                        underlying zoning district apply.
                                        The shared driveway must be within a shared access easement in favor of all
                                        lots served by the shared driveway.
                                        The City is not responsible for the maintenance, repair, or parking
                                        enforcement of a shared driveway.
                                        Individual driveways leading from the shared driveway to each dwelling unit
                                        must be a minimum of 22 feet in length.
                                        Individual driveway lengths may be reduced to five feet if a separate parking
                                        area is provided that accommodates a minimum of one vehicle parking space
                                        for each unit with a driveway less than 22 feet in length.
                                        Each dwelling unit gaining access via a shared driveway must have
                                        pedestrian access connected to a public or private street via a minimum five-
                                        foot wide pedestrian accessway.
                                        A minimum five- foot landscape buffer is required between the perimeter
                                        property lines of the project and pedestrian accessways and vehicle driving
                                        surfaces.

                                        Sufficient snow storage areas must be provided on- site.
                                        The shared driveway shall comply with all other city standards, including
                                        fire and emergency access, and utility provisions.

                                The text amendment also removes the current definition for " lane, private" and
                                includes a new definition for" shared driveway."

     STAFF RECOMMENDATION:     Staff recommends approval of Ordinance No. 21- 09 based on the findings outlined
                               in this report.

        PLANNING COMMISSION    El Approve            Deny
           RECOMMENDATION:

  PLANNING COMMISSION VOTE:    6- 0

SUMMARY OF PUBLIC COMMENTS:    None.

          ATTORNEY' S OFFICE   0 Yes         No

              ATTACHMENTS:     Ordinance No. 21- 09 with corresponding Exhibit A




                                                     2
                                   TAYLORSVILLE, UTAH
                                    ORDINANCE NO. 21- 09


      AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF TAYLORSVILLE APPROVING TEXT
     AMENDMENTS TO TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE CHAPTER 13.21;
 SECTION 13.36. 130; AND SECTION 13. 36.200, RELATED TO PRIVATE LANES AND
                                   SHARED DRIVEWAYS.


       WHEREAS, the Taylorsville City Council ( the" Council") met in regular session on May
19, 2021, to consider, among other things, approving a text amendment to the Taylorsville
Municipal Code Chapter 13. 21; Section 13. 36. 130; and Section 13. 36.200, related to private lanes
and shared driveways; and


       WHEREAS, pursuant to TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE Section 13. 35. 030, notice of a
public hearing before the City' s Planning Commission was published in the Deseret News on April
16, 2021; and


       WHEREAS, the notice of a public hearing before the City' s Planning Commission was
also published on the Utah Public Notice Website on April 15, 2021; and


        WHEREAS, the City' s Planning Commission held a properly noticed public hearing on
the proposed amendments on April 27, 2021, during which the Planning Commission voted 6- 0 to
recommend that the Council approve the proposed text amendment; and


       WHEREAS, although not required by City ordinances, the City Council heard courtesy
public comment on the proposed amendments during its regularly scheduled meeting on May 19,
2021; and


       WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Taylorsville to approve the proposed
amendments.




       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Taylorsville City Council that the
proposed text amendments to the Taylorsville Municipal Code Chapter 13. 21; Section 13. 36. 130;
and Section 13. 36.200, are hereby approved, as articulated in Exhibit" A."

       This ordinance, assigned Ordinance No. 21- 09, shall take effect as soon as it shall be
published or posted as required by law, deposited and recorded in the office of the City Recorder,
and accepted as required herein.




                                                 3
      PASSED AND APPROVED this                           day of                            2021.



                                                 TAYLORSVILLE CITY COUNCIL




                                                 By:
                                                        Curt Cochran, Council Chair



                                                 VOTING:


                                                 Meredith Harker                  Yea_     Nay_
                                                 Ernest Burgess                   Yea      Nay
                                                 Daniel Armstrong                 Yea      Nay
                                                 Curt Cochran                     Yea      Nay
                                                 Anna Barbieri                    Yea_     Nay


      PRESENTED          to   Mayor    of   Taylorsville   for her   approval   this               day of
                         2021.




      APPROVED this                day of                              2021.




                                                 Mayor Kristie S. Overson
ATTEST:




Jamie Brooks, Recorder



      DEPOSITED in the Recorder' s office this                day of                    52021.




      POSTED this             day of                         2021.




                                                    4
                                                                              Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                 Chapter 13. 21 Subdivision Design Standards
                                                                        13. 21. 090 ALTERATION OR RELOCATION OF WATERWAYS:



      2.   The developer shall provide groundwater information to each lot purchaser/ owner and disclose the
            information on the plat.

B.    If required, groundwater drainage systems shall be designed and installed in accordance with
      construction standards and specifications determined by the city engineer.
C.    All drainage systems shall be extended to the outermost boundaries of the subdivision by the developer,
      or farther if necessary, to provide service.
D.    The city may prohibit basements in high water table areas upon recommendation from the city engineer.
E.    If a public utility is outside the public right of way, the developer and subsequent homeowner shall be
      responsible for maintenance.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)



13. 21. 090      ALTERATION OR RELOCATION OF WATERWAYS:
A.    A request for alteration or relocation of a waterway shall first be submitted to the city engineer to ensure
      the following:
      1.   The flow capacity and velocity of the waterway will not change with the proposed alteration or
            relocation.


      2.   The soils conditions in the proposed location will not increase flooding potential.
      3.   The proposed waterway can be maintained.
B.    After approval by the city engineer, alteration or relocation of any waterway shall be submitted and
      approved by all applicable agencies.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)


13. 21. 100      STREETS:
A.    All roads and roadway features are required to meet minimum geometric design standards established
      by the American Association Of State Highway And Transportation Officials( AASHTO) and other
      applicable entities. All street and right of way improvements shall be designed and constructed in
      accordance with the city standards. All signs, pavement markings, and traffic control signals must meet
      standards established by the" Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices"( MUTCD) and other applicable
      agencies, and related roadway standards established by state, federal, or local law. Exceptions to
      applicable standards may be granted by the city engineer on a case by case basis and shall demonstrate
      innovative superiority or other advantages over existing standards.
B.    The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade, and location of all streets shall conform to the
      transportation master plan and shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned streets,
      topographical conditions, public convenience and safety, and in their appropriate relation to the
      proposed uses of the land to be served by such streets.
C.    Where the transportation master plan does not show proposed streets, the arrangement of streets in a
      subdivision shall either:


      1.    Provide for the continuation or appropriate projection of existing principal streets in surrounding
            areas( providing for neighborhood connectivity with the purpose of spreading traffic); or
      2.    Conform to a plan for the neighborhood approved or adopted by the director to meet a particular
            situation where topographical or other conditions make continuance or conformance to existing
            streets impracticable.

D.    At least two( 2) points of ingress/ egress shall be provided for each subdivision or PUD project unless the
      project has one or more of the following:
      1.    A single cul- de- sac, hammerhead, or other approved turnaround approved by the UFA and city
            engineer that complies with all development standards herein.

      2.    An emergency access approved by the director.




City of Taylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                   173
                                                                            Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                              Chapter 13. 21 Subdivision Design Standards
                                                                                                       13. 21. 100 STREETS:



       3.     The future extension of a stub street that will provide additional access including a temporary
              turnaround approved by the UFA and city engineer.
E.     Stub streets that are longer than one hundred fifty feet( 150') shall have a temporary turnaround.
F.     The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provision for the continuation of the existing
       streets in adjoining areas and shall provide access to unsubdivided adjoining areas insofar as such
       continuation or access shall be deemed necessary by the planning commission. New streets must
       connect with existing public streets.
G.     Street right of way widths shall be as shown on the transportation master plan, and where not shown
       therein, shall not be less than the following:




City of Taylorsville, LIT-   Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                 174
                                                                              Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                 Chapter 13. 21 Subdivision Design Standards
                                                                                             13. 21. 110 PRIVATE STREETS/ LANES:




        Street type                                                    Right of Way Width

        Major arterial                                                       106+ feet

        Major collector                                                       80 feet

        Minor collector                                                       66 feet

        Local                                                                 50 feet

        Local rebuild                                                         42 feet

        Private street4ane type:

        Private street                                       50 feet( 26 foot pavement width minimum)

                                                                                                          1
                                                            25 foot nn fOOt PaVeMeRt Width M        ..,




 H.    Half streets are prohibited.

I.     A cul- de- sac is discouraged but may be permitted on local streets and shall be terminated by a
       turnaround of not less than ninety two feet( 92') in diameter as measured from top back of curb to top
       back of curb. A cul- de- sac shall not exceed four hundred feet( 400') in length in a residential zone. A cul-
       de- sac in the sensitive area overlay zone shall not exceed six hundred feet( 600') in length unless
       otherwise permitted by the planning commission upon recommendation from the city engineer. A cul-
       de- sac length is measured from its intersection with another street to the end of the cul- de- sac
       turnaround.

J.     Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible at right angles.
K.     No street names shall be used which will duplicate the names of existing streets. Street names are
       subject to the approval of the director and Salt Lake County recorder's office.
 L.    Local streets shall be laid out to provide neighborhood connectivity so that traffic is distributed out
       evenly.
M.     Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railroad right of way or limited access highway right of way,
       the planning commission may require a local access street approximately parallel to and on each side of
       such right of way.
 N.    Where a subdivision abuts or contains existing double frontage lots or a proposed arterial or collector
       street, the planning commission may require local access streets, reverse frontage with screen planting
       contained in a nonaccess reservation along the rear property line, deep lots with rear service alleys, or
       other such treatment as may be necessary for adequate protection of residential properties and to
       provide separation of through and local traffic.

 O.    Park strips shall be required on all streets unless otherwise determined by the planning commission.
       They shall be designed and installed according to the city standards.
 P.    The requirements of this section may be waived or modified by the planning commission after
       considering a recommendation from the city engineer.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)

 13. 21. 110       PRIVATE STREETS& ANES:

 Full width public street systems shall be installed for access to all residential dwelling sites, unless exempted by
the planning commission. A private street%               m may be approved where it can be shown, based upon
 property width, connectivity( or the inability to connect to the existing street patterns), topographical concerns,
 overall subdivision design, the ability to provide service( which includes, but is not limited to, snowplowing,
 street sweeping, trash collection, and overall street maintenance), that a full width public street may not be the
 best solution for a new subdivision.

 A.    Private Street:



 City of Taylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
 Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                      175
                                                                              Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                Chapter 13. 21 Subdivision Design Standards

                                                                                      13. 21. 120 Private LaneShared Driveway


       1.    All roads and roadway features are required to meet minimum geometric design standards
             established by the American Association Of State Highway And Transportation Officials( AASHTO)
             and other applicable entities. All street and right of way improvements shall be designed and
             constructed in accordance with the city standards. All signs, pavement markings, and traffic control
             signals must meet standards established by the" Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices"
              MUTCD) and other applicable agencies, and related roadway standards established by state,
             federal, or local law. Exceptions to applicable standards may be granted by the city engineer on a
             case by case basis and shall demonstrate innovative superiority or other advantages over existing
             standards.


       2.    Approved private streets for access to residential dwelling structures shall have a fifty foot( 50') right
             of way and a twenty six foot( 26') minimum width paved surface. All private streets shall be
             constructed in accordance with the latest edition of the city standards, this land development code,
             and all other applicable city ordinances.

       3.    Private streets shall have appropriate turnaround(s) as determined by the city engineer and UFA.
       4.    The city engineer and UFA shall have the authority to require more than one access road based
             upon the potential for impairment of a single road by vehicle congestion, condition of terrain,
             climatic conditions, or other factors that could limit access.

       5.    Private streets shall not be obstructed in any manner including the parking of vehicles. The
             minimum widths and clearances shall be maintained at all times.

       6.    If a private street is approved, a perpetual maintenance plan shall be established for the
             homeowners' association so that the street is continually maintained as designed.
       7.    Whenever a subdivision is approved with a private street, the final subdivision plat shall include a

             statement that no city maintenance is provided on the private street.


13. 21. 120             ate 1-- a"
                    Grkr—              Shared Driveway
A shared driveway arrangement may be considered as an alternative layout for residential subdivisions
allowing up four( 4) single-family detached residential dwelling units and/ or ten( 10) single- family attached
dwelling units to gain access via a shared driveway, provided the layout is approved with a preliminaryplat
pursuant to Chapter 13. 30: Subdivision Review. Shared driveways shall comply with the following:
A.     The shared driveway access shall be from a public or private street and shall not exceed 300 feet in
       length. Length shall be the distance from the edge of the street right-of-way granting access to the
       farthest point of the shared driveway, following a vehicle route.
B.     A shared driveway exceeding 150 feet in length shall include an approved vehicle turn- around pursuant
       to City and Unified Fire Authority standards.
C.     The shared driveway shall not _extend a stub street or cul- de- sac street beyond the distance allowed
       established in Sections 14. 12. 080 and 13. 21. 100.

       The drivable surface( not including curb and gutter) of the shared driveway shall be a minimum 20 feet
       wide and shall be a solid surface designed to support the weight of emergency vehicles.
E.     Flag lots shall not gain access via a shared driveway.
F.     Parking-on the shared driveway may be allowed subiect_to International_Fire. Co         standards. If- arkingis

       not allowed, the shared driveway shall be marked with permanent signage as required by the
       International Fire Code.

       Each residential lot gaining access via the shared driveway shall satisfy the minimum building setback
       and lot dimensional requirements of the underlying zoning district. For purposes of this subsection, the
       area between the shared driveway, public street, and private street shall be a front yard. Setbacks from a
       shared driveway shall be measured from the dwelling structure to the property line back of curb or



City of Taylorsville, UT-   Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                   176
                                                                                Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                  Chapter 13. 21 Subdivision Design Standards
                                                                                         13. 21. 120 Private LaneShared Driveway


         closest paved edge of the shared driveway, whichever is closest. The minimum setback from a vehicle
         turn-around or vehicle parking area to the dwelling structure shall be five( 5) feet.
H.       The shared driveway shall be within_a__shared access easement in favor of all lots served by the shared
         driveway. Such easement shall be recorded on the subdivision plat.
I.       Maintenance and repair of shared driveways shall be the responsibility of a property owner's association
         or adjacent property owners and shall be noted on the recorded subdivision plat. The City shall not
         responsible for the maintenance, repair, or parking enforcement of a shared driveway.
         Individual driveways leading from the shared driveway to each dwelling unit shall be a minimum of 22
         feet in length, measured from the front of the garage or carport to the closest edge of the shared
         driveway. Individual driveway width shall not exceed 30 feet.
K.       Individual driveway lengths may be. reduced to five( 5) feet in length if a separate parking area is provided
         that accommodates a minimum of one( 1) vehicle parking space for each unit with a driveway less than
         22 feet in length. If reduced driveway lengths are approved, the building setback from the shared
         driveway may be reduced to match the individual driveway length.
L.       Each dwelling unit gaining access via a shared driveway shall have pedestrian access connected to a
         public or private street via a minimum five( 5) foot wide pedestrian accessway. The pedestrian accessway
         shall be physically separated from vehicular traffic and dwelling units by at least five( 5) feet, shall be
         adequately illuminated for safety, and meet City design standards.
M        A minimum five( 5) foot landscape buffer shall be required between the perimeter property lines of the
         project and pedestrian accessways and vehicle driving surfaces.
N.       Sufficient snow storage areas shall be provided on- site.

O        The shared driveway shall be designed in accordance with City driveway design and engineering
         standards.

P.   _   The shared driveway shall comply with all other city standards including fire and emergency access and
         utilityprovisions.



The following graphic is keyedkeyed to illustrate select standards above In cases where there are conflicts between
the graphic and the text, the text shall govern.




 City of Taylorsville. LIT- Land Development Code
 Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                      177
                                                                        Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                          Chapter 13. 21 Subdivision Design Standards
                                                                                13. 21. 120 Private LaneShared Driveway




                                                         M    --,
                                                         v



                                                                    L


                    i---                                            K




                                                                                          r



                                                L




                                                                                 K



                                                                                                     A
                                                                        a                               L




             I
                                                                          I




                                                    L)




                           Public/ Private Street            aAa


City of Taylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                             178
                                                                                           Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                              Chapter 13. 21 Subdivision Design Standards
                                                                                                       13. 21. 130 BUFFERING ALONG STREETS:



               9.              a

                      h-Ave a; twenty five fGet( 25') right ef way and a MeRty feet( 20') MiRimum width paved Surface.
               O
                      Private lanes cannot access rnere than two( 2) residential dwellings.


                      arreSSy.ddthc where they are iRadequate for fire or fire resc6l@ operations
                   I. The City @AgOA@@r aAd IJP4 shall have the authority to require rnGre th aA QnLQ KCPSS MAGI hRs; @d
                      UPOR the peteRtial feF impairmeRt Gf a single read by vehicle congestion, conclitiGR efterrain,
                      cl' mat' c cp-ndmt' ens, er other factors that co uld limit a

                      min
                                   n, irdthc ;; Ad cle; rancps; shall hem   intRinerl ; t-. II times

               4-3. All private lanes shall be constructed to rneet all applicable requirements related tA C, ihnary
                     in, ter and Storm dF
               44:a. wheRever a subdivisiGn is approved with a private laRe, thLQ fiA; 31 q' lhdiViSiQP plat               shall      I&




                        Stat-P-PAR-At that no city maintenaRCe OS PrOVid@d GR the private lane.( Ord. 12 15, 7 11 2012)

              013. 21. 130                  BUFFERING ALONG STREETS:

Residential developments shall not permit motor vehicle access directly onto an arterial, major collector, or
minor collector street or roadway from individual residential lots. No new residential developments shall be
permitted within the city which abut an arterial without requiring improvements along the entire length of the
development as it abuts the arterial street. The following standards shall apply:
A.       The planning commission may require a barrier wall six feet( 6') in height( measured from the highest
         elevation on either side of the wall). Where soil retention is required, walls may be up to eight feet( 8') in
         height( retaining wall and barrier wall combined). Wall design and coloration shall be block, brick, or
         concrete. Concrete strips placed at the base of the fence shall be required to eliminate gaps between
         walls and sidewalks.


B.       Curb, gutter, and sidewalk shall be designed to specifications approved by the city engineer.
C.       A landscaped buffer between the sidewalk and street curb shall be installed according to city standards.
         In order to facilitate the planting of street trees, an eight foot( 8') park strip and five foot( 5') sidewalk is
         the standard requirement. Reduced park strip and sidewalk width may be approved based upon the size,
         scale, and nature of the project, and the type of existing improvements on adjacent properties. However,
         a ten foot( 10') cross section( 5 foot park strip, 5 foot sidewalk) is a minimum and may necessitate tree
         planting behind the sidewalk.
D.       Sprinkling system sufficient to maintain landscaping in all buffer areas shall be approved by the director.
E.       An additional landscaped buffer, including sprinkling and water connections, may be required by the
         planning commission between the sidewalk and barrier wall where it is impractical for the barrier wall to
         abut the sidewalk. The specific width of the buffer and landscaping specifications shall be determined by
         the planning commission upon recommendation by the director at the time of subdivision review.
F.       Provisions or plans for perpetual maintenance shall be submitted with the landscape design.( Ord. 12- 15,
         7- 11- 2012)



1-1.',
 x-           013. 21. 140                  PROTECTION STRIPS:

Reserve or protection strips controlling access to streets shall be prohibited.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)

13-.2444013. 21. 150                        BLOCK LENGTH:

A.       The lengths, width, and shapes of blocks shall be determined by the following:
         1.    Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs of the type of use contemplated.
         2.    Zoning requirements as to lot size and dimensions.


City of Taylorsville, LIT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                                      179
                                                                               Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                 Chapter 13. 21 Subdivision Design Standards
                                                                                          13. 21. 160 BRIDGES, CULVERTS, ETC.:



        3.    Needs for convenient access, circulation, control, and safety of street traffic.
        4.    Limitations and opportunities of topography.
B.      Block lengths shall not exceed eight hundred feet( 800').

C.      Pedestrian crosswalks shall be required where deemed essential to provide circulation or access to
        churches, schools, playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation, and other community facilities in
        accordance with city standards.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)

12.
               13. 21. 160            BRIDGES, CULVERTS, ETC.:
The developer/ subdivider shall pay all costs of designing, constructing or installing any bridge, pipe, culvert, or
other structure required by the city to provide access to or cover any ditch, canal, jurisdictional wetlands, etc.,
within the subdivision or adjacent thereto.

Automotive bridges/ culverts shall be designed to accommodate automotive and safe pedestrian traffic.( Ord.
12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)


1-
      1w13.21. 170                   WALKWAYS AND TRAILS:
A.      Determination: Walkways with a width of six( 6) to ten feet( 10') may be required within a subdivision.
        This will be determined on a case by case basis after review by city staff.
B.      Dedicated Parcels: The developer may be required to dedicate a sufficient amount of property to be used
        exclusively as a pedestrian access walkway. Such parcels to be dedicated shall be located in a position
        within the development as determined by the planning commission. The parcel shall also be of a size
        large enough to allow for such a walkway, such size to be determined by the planning commission.
C.      Improvements: The developer may be required to install upon the walkway such improvements as
        determined by the planning commission and the city engineer. All such improvements shall be erected
        and constructed in accordance with standards as may be established by the planning commission and
        city engineer.

D.      Pedestrian And Bicycle Paths: Where appropriate, the internal circulation system shall provide pedestrian
        and bicycle paths which may be physically separated from vehicular traffic to serve residential,
        nonresidential, and recreational facilities in or adjacent to the development. The planning commission
        may require connections to regional trail systems, activity centers, pedestrian and/ or bicycle overpasses,
        underpasses, or traffic signalization in the vicinity of schools, playgrounds, parks, shopping areas, or
        other uses that will receive considerable pedestrian and/ or recreational trails use from the development.
         Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)



13.',        013. 21. 180            SURVEY MONUMENTS:
Survey monuments shall be indicated on the final plat. A permit and approval from the Salt Lake County
surveyor' s office for the installation of survey monuments must be obtained prior to the setting of any survey
monuments and before any subdivision improvements are accepted.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)

12.',
      21.R-
          013. 21. 190                EASEMENTS:
A.      Easements for utilities and drainage shall be provided where necessary as determined by various public
        utility agencies, and the city engineer.
B.      Easements for surface water runoff drainage, canals, irrigation ditches, waterways, clear vision areas, and
        rights of way within the subdivision and across adjoining property may be required by the city when
        necessary to properly serve the subdivision or protect its citizens.
        1.    Open ditches shall not be allowed within or adjoining a subdivision. The developer/ subdivider shall
              work with ditch irrigation companies and the city engineer as to:


City of Taylorsville, LIT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                     180
                                                                            Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                               Chapter 13. 21 Subdivision Design Standards
                                                                                                13. 21. 200 PUBLIC UTILITIES:




            a.   Methods of covering, realigning, or eliminating ditches, pipes, or canals within or adjoining the
                 subdivision.

            b.   The size of pipe and culverts required.
            c.   The responsibility for the periodic inspection, cleaning, and maintenance of such ditches, pipes,
                 and culverts shall be reviewed by the city engineer. In cases where ditches cross public roads or
                 proposed public roads, specifications and grades for pipe or culvert must be approved by the
                 city engineer in accordance with the city' s specifications.
      2.    The developer/ subdivider may be required to install a six foot( 6), nonclimbable fence or its
            equivalent along all open ditches, canals, waterways, open reservoirs or other bodies of water,
            railroad rights of way, and other such features of a potentially hazardous nature, on or contiguous
            to the property being subdivided as determined by the planning commission.
      3.    After installation and acceptance by the city, individual property owners are responsible for
            maintenance of fences or portions of fences erected upon their property and shall hold the city
            harmless for any and all defects of workmanship, maintenance, repair, and liability arising from the
            erection or intended use of said fence.

C.    Easements for public trails shall be provided where necessary as determined by applicable public
      agencies, including the Salt Lake County parks and recreation department and the U. S. forest service.
       Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)



12.
           013. 21. 200             PUBLIC UTILITIES:
A.    The developer shall be responsible for the installation of service lines prior to street paving.
B.    All utilities which will serve the parcel being subdivided shall be buried beneath the surface of the ground
      and shall be located within the easements provided for such use or within the streets at a location to be
      determined by the city.
C.    All utility structures shall be included as part of the construction drawings submitted with the final plat.
D.    There shall be no aboveground utility structures placed in a right of way but may be placed out of the
      public right of way in a public utility easement as approved by the city engineer.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)

1: 2 21 20013. 21. 210             STREET LIGHTING:
A.    The developer shall follow all applicable requirements for the installation of streetlights and all
      streetlights shall be placed as approved by the director. Such items to be approved include appropriate
      distance, alternating sides of street, location upon the property, streetlight type, height, and illumination
      intensity as determined by the city' s specifications.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)

13
           v13. 21. 220             LOTS:
A.    Every parcel of land created by a subdivision shall comply with the minimum lot size requirements of this
      code and shall be platted as part of a subdivision. No parcel of land shall be created or left unplatted
      which is either undevelopable or serves merely as a nuisance or lot remnant.
B.    Except as may be otherwise provided in this development code, all lots shall have the required frontage
      upon a dedicated and improved street. Exceptions may include the following:
      1.    Residential building lots that do not have frontage upon a public street shall obtain an exception
            from the planning commission as part of the preliminary review process.
      2.    Commercial building lots within a recorded subdivision are exempt from this requirement. They
            may be developed without direct frontage upon a public street.
C.    Where a canal or exclusive utility easement abuts a subdivision, the area or portion of the canal which is
      located in the lot(s) shall not be included in the computation of total lot size nor side or rear yard
      setbacks for purposes of determining compliance with the development code.


City of Taylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                    181
                                                                               Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                  Chapter 13. 21 Subdivision Design Standards
                                                                                                         13. 21. 230 FLAG LOTS:




 D.    All lot corners, points of curvature, tangency, and bearing changes shall be marked with permanent
       metal stakes approved by the city. The front corners of the lot shall be marked as per the city standards.
 E.    Double frontage and reverse frontage lots shall be avoided except where essential to provide separation
       of residential development from traffic arteries or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and
       orientation.


 F.    Where possible, side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles to street lines.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)

 12-
            2013. 21. 230            FLAG LOTS:

In order to encourage the more efficient use of land, flag, or L- shaped lots maybe allowed as an exception( a
permitted use within the sensitive area overlay district) subject to the following conditions:
A.     A flag or L- shaped lot shall be comprised of a staff portion contiguous with the flag portion thereof.
 B.    The staff portion of said lot shall front on and be contiguous to a dedicated public street or private street.
       The minimum width of the staff portion of a flag lot shall be twenty feet( 20'), and the maximum length
       shall be two hundred twenty feet( 220') unless otherwise approved by the planning commission upon
       recommendation of the UFA.

 C.    A flag lot shall not gain access via an easement on an adjacent property.
 D.    No building or construction, except for driveways, shall be allowed on the staff portion of said lot unless
       the minimum width thereof is the same or greater than the minimum width for a lot as allowed in the
       underlying zone( excluding entrance features and streetlights).
 E.    The front side of the flag portion of said lots shall be deemed to be that side nearest to the dedicated
       public street or private street upon which the staff portion fronts, unless otherwise determined by staff
       on a case by case basis.
 F.    The staff portion of said lots shall be deemed to end, and the flag portion of said lots shall be deemed to
       commence at the extension of the front lot line.

G.     The square footage located in the flag portion of said lot, which shall be exclusive of the square footage
       located in the staff portion of said lot, shall be the same or greater than the minimum square footage as

       required in the underlying zone, but in no instance shall be less than eight thousand( 8, 000) square feet.
 H.    The front, side, and rear yard requirements of the flag portion of said lots shall be the same as is
       required in the underlying zone.
I.     No more than two( 2) flag lots can be served by the staff portion.
J.     All flag lots in the development shall be approved by the planning commission.
K.     The maximum number of flag lots in the subdivision shall be not more than twenty percent( 20%) of the

       total number of lots within the subdivision unless otherwise approved by the planning commission.
 L.    The approved building envelope shall be illustrated upon the final plat.
M.     Below is an example of a flag lot and is included herein to illustrate the concept of a flag or L- shaped lot.
       N.         A duplex, twin home, or any other multi-family dwelling shall not be located on a flag lot.

                               FIGURE 1 FLAG LOT MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS




City of Taylorsville, LIT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                     182
                                                                           Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                Chapter 13. 22 Manufactured Home Parks
                                                                                               13. 21. 240 SEISMIC AREAS:




                                                      Pk- 49HA, NO r--
                                                      1POP- Tt0iJ OF                     LU
                                                                                         BL


                                         LOT                                    r




       Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)



          3013. 21. 240               SEISMIC AREAS:

Any subdivision or lot on or adjacent to a seismic area shall comply with provisions of the sensitive area overlay
zone.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)


12 21
24013.21. 250                         EXCEPTIONS:

Any exception authorized by the planning commission as allowed in this chapter shall be shown on the final
plat, and the reasons for such exception shall be entered in writing in the minutes of the planning commission
meeting.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)


Chapter 13. 22                     Manufactured Home Parks

13. 22. 010        PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to:

A.     Permit variety and flexibility in land development for residential purposes by allowing the use of
       manufactured homes in certain districts within the city.
B.     Assure that manufactured home development will be of such character as to promote the objectives and
       purposes of this code, to protect the integrity and characteristics of the zone districts contiguous to those
       in which manufactured home parks are located, and protect other use values contiguous to or near
       manufactured home parks.

C.     Encourage manufactured home parks to be located adjacent to or in close proximity to an arterial or
       collector street.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)




City of Taylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                183
                                                                            Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                               Chapter 13. 36 Definitions
                                                                                               13. 36. 130 1" DEFINITIONS:




13. 36. 130      " L" DEFINITIONS:

LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT
A person who holds a certificate to practice landscape architecture in the State of Utah.

LANDSCAPE DESIGNER

A person who has been certified by the Utah Nursery and Landscape Association to prepare landscape plans or
as otherwise approved by the Public Utilities Department.

LANDSCAPE EDUCATION PACKAGE

A package of documents that is intended to inform and educate water users in the City about water efficient
landscapes. The package includes the principles of water efficient landscape design, a listing of water
conserving plants, a listing of certified landscape designers, landscape architects, certified irrigation designers,
certified irrigation contractors, an information packet about various area demonstration projects, city' s water
rates, billing format for water use, and the economics of installing and maintaining a water efficient landscape.
LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION AUDITOR

A person who has been certified by the Irrigation Association to conduct a landscape irrigation audit or as
otherwise approved by the public utilities department.

LANDSCAPE PLAN

A plan showing the proposed location, type and size of all trees, shrubs and ground covers to be planted on the
site as well as a complete water efficient irrigation system plan.


LANDSCAPE PLAN DOCUMENTATION PACKAGE

The preparation of graphic and written criteria, specifications, and detailed plans to arrange and modify the
effects of natural features such as plantings, ground and water forms, circulation, walks, and other features to

comply with the provisions of this title. The landscape plan documentation package shall include a project data
sheet, a planting plan, an irrigation plan, a grading plan, a soils report, a landscape water allowance, and an
irrigation schedule.


LANDSCAPE WATER ALLOWANCE
For design purposes, the upper limit of annual applied water for the established landscaped area. It is based
upon the local reference evapotranspiration rate, the ET adjustment factor, and the size of the landscaped area.

LANDSCAPED ZONE

A portion of the landscaped area having plants with similar water needs, areas with similar microclimate, i. e.,
slope, exposure, wind, etc., and soil conditions and areas that will be similarly irrigated. A landscape zone can
be served by one irrigation valve or a set of valves with the same schedule.

LANDSCAPING

Any combination of living plants such as trees, shrubs, vines, ground covers, flowers, turf or ornamental grass;
natural features such as rock, stone, or bark chips; and structural features, including, but not limited to,
fountains, reflecting pools, outdoor artwork, screen walls, fences, or benches.

LANDSCAPING, DRY

The finishing and adornment of yard areas solely by use of rocks, fountains, lanterns, benches, decorative
paving, etc., and not including growing or planted materials.

LANE, PRIVATE

A right Gf way eF easemeRt OR private ownership, REA dedic-ated er FIF-aiRtaiRed as a public street, that serves GRe
or two( 7) lots 9 s less than one hu nrlred-fifty feet( 159') iR IeRgth




City of Taylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                365
                                                                                Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                                    Chapter 13. 36 Definitions
                                                                                                    13. 36. 200" S" DEFINITIONS



RESOURCE FAMILY HOME
See definition of Human Services Programs Or Facilities.

REST HOME

See definition of Nursing Home.

RESTAURANT

An eating establishment in which food is prepared for either on or off premises consumption, with service
being provided in a traditional sit down restaurant with indoor or outdoor seating style or served from a
counter. This definition also includes specialty food stores such as ice cream parlors or delicatessens, but does
not include drive- in or drive- up window service.

RESTAURANT, DRIVE- IN/ DRIVE- UP WINDOW

An eating establishment in which food is prepared and served. May include facilities for indoor seating, takeout,
drive- up window service, or outside service provided by employees to customers in vehicles.

RETAIL SALES AND SERVICES

A commercial enterprise that provides goods and/ or services directly to the consumer where such goods are
available for immediate purchase and removal from the premises by the purchaser. This also includes retail
establishments engaged in selling goods or merchandise to the general public as well as to other retailers,
contractors, or businesses, and rendering services incidental to the sale of such goods. Retail establishments
could also involve a high volume of sales of related and/ or unrelated products in a warehouse setting and may
include membership warehouse clubs( big box retail).

RETAINING WALL
A structure or combination of natural elements constructed to hold back or support the adjacent slope, earthen
berm or otherwise create a differential in heights between two( 2) or more land masses.

RIGHT OF WAY

The portion of roadway dedicated to the purpose of conveying vehicle and pedestrian traffic, and other public
use. This area shall include, but not be limited to, all areas of pavement and sidewalk between opposing
property lines.

ROADWAY

That portion of a street improved, designed, or ordinarily used for vehicular travel.

RUNOFF

Irrigation water that is not absorbed by the soil or landscape area to which it is applied and that flows onto
other areas.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012; amd. Ord. 12- 28, 10- 17- 2012; Ord. 12- 29, 10- 17- 2012; Ord. 18- 26, 10- 17-
2018)



13. 36. 200      " S" DEFINITIONS

SARA TITLE III

The Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act section found in 40 CFR 300- 302, pertaining to emergency
response and right to know.

SCHOOL

Any building( public or private) used primarily for the general education of minors.

SCHOOL, CHARTER
A public school established by a contract with a school district governing board, the State Board of Education,
or the State Board for Charter Schools pursuant to State law.




City of Taylorsville, LIT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                     381
                                                                             Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                                 Chapter 13. 36 Definitions
                                                                                                 13. 36. 200" S" DEFINITIONS



SCHOOL, COMMERCIAL

A school established to provide for the teaching of vocational, industrial, clerical, managerial, artistic skills, or
similar skills. This definition applies to schools that are owned and operated privately for profit and that do not
offer a complete educational curriculum, e. g., beauty school, modeling school.

SCHOOL, COMMERCIAL( LOW IMPACT)
Those commercial schools which are artistic in nature and which have a relatively low impact on surrounding
uses because they are conducted indoors; have a limited number of students; and do not require a large
number of parking spaces because of the age of the students. Such schools generally include smaller scale
dance schools, music lessons, martial arts schools, gymnastics schools and similar uses.

SCHOOL, PRIVATE OR QUASI- PUBLIC

A school operated by a private or quasi- public organization, or individual, which has a curriculum similar to that
provided in any public school in the State of Utah, except that such curriculum may include religious instruction.
A private school may be a profit making or nonprofit organization. A private school may also include laboratory
and shop instruction with the use of demonstration vehicles, products or models incidental to said instruction;
but shall not include the repair, maintenance and manufacture of vehicles, goods or merchandise, and shall not
provide direct services, other than instruction to the general public.( Does not include commercial schools.)

SCHOOLS, PUBLIC

An educational facility operated by a school district or other public agency of the State of Utah.

SCULPTURE PARK

A facility for the display for viewing and/ or sale of sculptures. Facility may include outdoor display. Such facility
typically includes a large expanse of landscaped green space containing an array of gardens, fountains, and
sculptural artworks.



SEARCHLIGHT

A temporary advertising device which is a stationary or revolving light which flashes or projects illumination,
single color or multicolored, in any manner which is intended to attract or divert attention.

SECONDARY CONTAINMENT( Drinking Water Source Protection Ordinance)
Any system that is used to provide release detection and release prevention, such as trays under containers,
floor curbing or other systems designed to hold materials or liquids that may discharge from containers
holding regulated substances. Examples include a double walled tank, a double walled integral piping system,
or a single walled tank or integral piping system that is protected by an enclosed concrete vault, liner, or an
impervious containment area.


SECONDHAND GOODS STORE

Any business which is engaged in the purchase, barter, exchange, or sale of any secondhand merchandise or
which deals in secondhand goods, excluding businesses dealing in used motor vehicles and trailers and pawn
shops. Typical businesses in this definition are thrift stores, used clothing stores, etc.

SECURE CORRECTIONAL FACILITY

See definition of correctional facility.

SECURE DETENTION

See definition of correctional facility.

SECURE FACILITY

See definition of correctional facility.

SECURE TREATMENT
See definition of human services programs or facilities.




City of Taylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                  382
                                                                              Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                                    Chapter 13. 36 Definitions
                                                                                                    13. 36. 200" S" DEFINITIONS



SEMITRAILER

Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property with another and separate motor vehicle so
that in operation a part of its own weight or that of its load, or both, rests upon and is carried by another
vehicle.



SENIOR APARTMENT UNITS

Single- family dwelling units within a single building for persons age fifty five( 55) and older.

SENSITIVE AREA

An area of land which contains environmental or potential geological hazards, and which, if altered, may cause
damage to the environment.


SEPTIC HOLDING TANK( Drinking Water Source Protection Ordinance)
A watertight receptacle, used to contain septic waste. The contents of which are extilated and disposed of at a
waste disposal facility.

SEPTIC TANK SYSTEM( Drinking Water Source Protection Ordinance)
A generally watertight receptacle connected to a drainfield that allows liquid from the tank to enter the soil. The
system is constructed to promote separation of solid and liquid components of domestic wastewater, to
provide decomposition of organic matter, to store solids, and to allow clarified liquid to discharge for further
treatment and disposal in a soil absorption system.


SETBACK

The setback for all structures is the shortest distance between the property line and the building or any portion
thereof excluding the following:
    A.     Window awnings and unenclosed front entry and steps not protruding more than five feet( 5') into the
           setback area.


     B.    Uncovered patios.


     C.    Decks and balconies not greater than two feet( 2') in height from grade, and not less than four feet( 4')
           from the rear property line and eight feet( 8') from the side property line.
     D.    Decks and balconies not greater than eight feet( 8') above grade and not less than ten feet( 10') from
           the rear lot line.

     E.    Chimney and roof overhangs protruding no greater than two feet( 2') into the setback area.

SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS

Adult businesses, nude entertainment businesses, seminude dancing bars, outcall services, and nude and
seminude dancing agencies as defined in title 5, chapter 5. 82 of the Taylorsville Code.

SHARED DRIVEWAY

A method of providing ingress or egress to two or more single- family attached or detached dwelling units
within an access easement.



SHELTER

See definition of correctional facility.

SHELTERED WORKSHOP

A nonresidential facility providing supervised educational or vocational training facility for persons with a
disability.

SHOPPING CENTER

An area or group of commercial or mixed- use structures built on a site that is planned, developed, managed
and owned by a single entity as a unified and contiguous operating unit.


City of Taylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                     383
