                                        TAYLORSVILLE, UTAH
                                        ORDINANCE NO. 21- 15


    AN ORDINANCE OF THE TAYLORSVILLE CITY COUNCIL AMENDING
 TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE CHAPTER 5. 76: RENTAL DWELLING UNIT
      TO INCLUDE SECTION 5. 76. 130: ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS.

       WHEREAS, the Taylorsville              City Council ( the " Council") met during its regularly
scheduled      meeting   on   October   20,    2021,   to   consider,   among   other   things,   amending
TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE Chapter 5. 76: Rental Dwelling Unit to include Section 5. 76. 130:
Accessory Dwelling Units; and

       WHEREAS, during the 2021 General Session, the Utah State Legislature passed House
Bill 82, which requires municipalities to allow accessory dwelling units as permitted uses in all
single-family residential zones and which sets forth certain limitations and permissible regulations
that municipalities may impose on such accessory dwelling units; and

       WHEREAS, the City' s Business License Division desires to add a new subsection to
TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE Chapter 5. 76 for the purpose of regulating the issuance of
business licenses for accessory dwelling units consistent with the terms and conditions of House
Bill 82; and


       WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it would be in
the best interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the City' s citizens to amend TAYLORSVILLE
MUNICIPAL CODE Chapter 5. 76: Rental Dwelling Unit to include Section 5. 76. 130: Accessory
Dwelling Units as proposed.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Taylorsville City Council that the
proposed amendments to TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE Chapter 5. 76: Rental Dwelling Unit
are hereby approved and are designated by interlineating the words to be deleted and underlining
the words to be added, as follows:



                                  TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE
                                 Chapter 5. 76: Rental Dwelling Unit

5. 76. 130: Accessory Dwelling Units


   A. PURPOSE. The purpose of this section is to set forth rules and regulations governing the
issuance of rental business licenses to accessory dwelling units located within single-family
dwellings in residential zoning districts within the City.

   B. ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT REQUIREMENTS. In order to qualify for a rental

business license, all accessory dwelling units within single-family dwellings in residential zones
within the City must comply with the following:




                                                       2
               1.   Accessory dwelling units shall only be allowed within the building footprint of a
detached single- family dwelling.    Accessory dwelling units shall not be allowed in a duplex,
triplex, apartment, or any other structure that contains more than one dwelling unit.

              2.
               A minimum of one ( 1) off-street vehicle parking space is required for an accessory
dwelling unit. This space shall be in addition to those required for the primary dwelling and shall
comply with the City' s parking standards.

              3.
                    Accessory Dwelling Units shall only be allowed on a lot containing 6, 000 or more
square feet.


              4.    An accessory dwelling unit shall not be allowed in a mobile home.

              5.    Only one ( 1) accessory dwelling unit shall be permitted per lot.

              6.
              Accessory dwelling units shall not be used as short-term rentals; any rental of an
accessory dwelling unit shall be for a period of at least thirty (30) days.
              7.
               Accessory dwelling units shall be designed in a manner that does not change the
appearance of the primary dwelling as a single- family dwelling.

              8.
                    Installation of a separate utility meter to service an accessory dwelling unit is
prohibited.



              9.
                    Establishing a separate mailing address for an accessory dwelling unit is prohibited.

               10. Accessory dwelling units shall comply with all applicable building, health, and fire
codes.




              11. A building permit is required for the installation of any of the features listed below
and   any other construction related to the accessory dwelling unit.         All construction must meet
current building codes and shall, at a minimum, comply with the following standards prior to
receiving a business license:

                    a.
                         Contain separate living facilities from the primary dwelling unit, including
                         permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and bathing;

                    b.   Provide ingress and egress to the accessory dwelling unit through a minimum
                         32- inch wide side- hinged door without requiring travel through a garage;

                    c.
                         Provide wall and floor/ceiling fire separation between the accessory dwelling
                         unit and the primary dwelling unit with at least half-inch gypsum or equivalent:,

                    d.   Accessory dwelling unit occupants shall have access to the plumbing, HVAC,
                         and electrical controls for the accessory dwelling unit;




                                                       3
               e.
                    Provide a written statement from a licensed HVAC professional stating the
                    HVAC system is sufficient for the accessory dwelling unit and the primary
                    dwelling unit;

               f. Provide       separation of electrical   systems.   The branch circuits supplying the
                    accessory dwelling unit must be accessible to the accessory dwelling unit
                    occupants;




               g.   Provide sleeping rooms with emergency openings; and

               h.   Provide interconnected smoke and carbon monoxide detectors.


           12. Prior to occupancy of an accessory dwelling unit, a business license must be
obtained in accordance with TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE Title 5: Business Licenses and
Regulations and TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE Title 13: Land Development Code.

           13. An active business license shall be maintained for as long as the accessory dwelling
unit exists. Upon sale of the property, the new owner shall be required to secure reauthorization
of the accessory dwelling unit by obtaining a new business license.

            14. Single- family dwellings in which an accessory dwelling unit is located require the
property owner to occupy either the primary dwelling or the accessory dwelling unit. Therefore,
applications for an accessory
                                dwelling unit shall include evidence of owner occupancy. An
applicant must submit any two ( 2) of the following documents as proof of owner occupancy;

               a.   Bank statement( dated within 60 days);
               b.   Court documents;
               c.   Current mortgage or rental contract;
               d.   Major credit card bill (dated within 60 days);
               e.   Property tax notice ( statement or receipt dated within one ( 1) year);
               f  School transcript( dated within 90 days);
               g_ Utility bill ( billing date within 60 days); cell phone bills will not be accepted;
                    or

               h.   Valid Utah vehicle registration or title.


            15. The City may record a notice with Salt Lake County to alert a future owner of the
regulations for the accessory dwelling unit. The City shall, upon recording such a notice, deliver
a copy of the notice to the owner of the accessory dwelling unit. The recorded notice shall include
the following:

               a.
                    A description of the primary dwelling;
               b.   A statement that the primary dwelling contains an internal accessory dwelling
                    unit• and

               c.
                    A statement that the accessory dwelling unit may only be used in accordance
                    with the City' s adopted land use regulations.




                                                    4
    C. ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT APPLICATION DOCUMENTS.

           1. Applicants for an accessory dwelling unit must submit all of the following
documents prior to the City issuing a rental business license:

                a.
                     A copy of the building permit issued by the City for any remodel or construction
                     work for the accessory dwelling unit, if applicable;
                b.   A floor plan of the accessory dwelling unit that includes the location and size
                     of all entrances and exits and room dimensions and labels;
                c.
                     A site plan for the lot upon which the accessory dwelling unit is located
                     including the size, location, and surface material of off-street vehicle parking
                     areas reserved for the accessory dwelling unit;
                d.
                     Exterior elevations or photographs of all sides of the primary dwelling;
                e.
                     A completed accessory dwelling unit self-inspection form;
                f. Evidence        of   owner
                                                  occupancy         document       # 1    pursuant            to    Section
                     5. 76. 130( B)( 14) above;
                     Evidence      of   owner     occupancy        document        # 2    pursuant            to    Section
                     5. 76. 130( B)( 14) above; and
                h.   A copy of the owner' s Good Landlord certificate if the owner is participating
                     in the City' s Good Landlord Program.

       This ordinance, assigned Ordinance No. 21- 15, shall take effect as soon as it shall be
published or posted as required by law, deposited and recorded in the office of the City Recorder,
and accepted as required herein.

                                                  3611-
       PASSED AND APPROVED this(                           aay of     Qt_ t9-
                                                                            - }t                          2021.




                                                   TAYLORSVILLE CITY COUNCIL



                                                   By:
                                                          Council Chair



                                                   VOTING:


                                                   Meredith Harker                         Yea '          Nay
                                                   Ernest Burgess                          Yea a/
                                                                                                Nay
                                                   Daniel Armstrong            ,     e          ea        Nay
                                                   Curt Cochran                            Yea       V>    lay
                                                   Anna Barbieri                           Yea       ,/   Nay


                                                                                                              SI-
       PRESENTED          to   Mayor    of   Taylorsville    for    her   approval       this             1         day of
                           2021.




                                                      5
                                       64-
       APPROVED this         X3.   1     day of   0       g                   2021.



                                                      47S                             a7'AF--14-e---
                                                  Mayor Kristie S. Overson
ATTEST:



                                                                                           A


                       e).                                                y
                                                              1,   %<           c---,..•

               L! Z/    r54
jcai   rooks   Recorder                                            yVeL

                                                                   dt-

       DEPOSITED in the Recorder' s office this a& a-y of                                      2021.

       POSTED thisI                Y of                       2021.




                                                      6
