                                         A



                                   CITY COUNCIL
                           AGENDA SUMMARY FORM
                           COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

          MEETING DATE:    October 6, 2021

           AGENDA ITEM:     AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF TAYLORSVILLE APPROVING TEXT AMENDMENTS
                                   TO THE TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE CHAPTER 13. 35: NOTICE
                           REQUIREMENTS, TO UPDATE THE CITY' S PUBLIC NOTICING STANDARDS TO ALIGN
                                                           WITH STATE LAW.

                  FILE#:   13Z21

PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED:     Yes    0 No

    ORDINANCE REQUIRED:    0 Yes       No

   RESOLUTION REQUIRED:      Yes    0 No

                AUTHOR:    Jim Spung, AICP, Senior Planner
             PRESENTER:    Wayne Harper, Economic&      Community Development Director
               SUMMARY:    The City of Taylorsville is requesting a text amendment to the Taylorsville
                           Municipal Code Chapter 13. 35: Notice Requirements, to Update the City' s Public
                           Noticing Standards to Align with State Law.

                           In its 2021 session, the Utah legislature passed new law updating the public hearing
                           noticing procedures required by municipalities. The most notable change is the
                           elimination of the public hearing newspaper notice for General Plan, zoning map,
                           and land use regulation amendments. In lieu of a newspaper notice, a notice must be
                           published on the Utah Public Notice Website, be mailed to each affected entity( if
                           applicable) and posted on the City' s website.

                           This legislation became effective on July 1, 2021; however, the City Code has not
                           yet been updated. A brief summary of the new legislation is provided below. Exhibit
                           B includes the complete language for affected sections of Utah Code.


                                    The city must now send a " notice of intent" to prepare a General Plan or
                                    comprehensive General Plan amendment;
                                    A published newspaper notice is no longer required for amendments to a
                                    General Plan, land use regulation( e. g. zoning text amendment), or zoning
                                    map amendment;
                                    A" courtesy notice" is now required for zoning map amendments;
                                    Specifies information and content that must be included for public hearing
                                    notices.



                           In addition to the updates noted above, this proposed text amendment updates and
                           clarifies subdivision noticing requirements in current Sections 13. 35. 060( B) and




                                               1
                               13. 35. 080( B).   These sections include outdated standards for public noticing
                               requirements for subdivision amendment applications that include the vacation,
                               alteration, amendment, or closure of a public street. Rather than including specific
                               standards in the Taylorsville Land Development Code, the proposed text amendment
                               simply refers users to the section of State Code that specifies noticing requirements
                               Utah Code§ 10- 9a-208).


     STAFF RECOMMENDATION:     Staff recommends approval of Ordinance No. 21- 14 based on the findings outlined
                               in this report.

        PLANNING COMMISSION    0 Approve             Deny
           RECOMMENDATION:

  PLANNING COMMISSION VOTE:    7- 0

SUMMARY OF PUBLIC COMMENTS:    None.

          ATTORNEY' S OFFICE   0 Yes          No

              ATTACHMENTS:     Ordinance No. 21- 14 with corresponding Exhibit A
                               Exhibit B: Utah Code Language: § 10- 9a- 203; § 10- 9a-204; and § 10- 9a- 205




                                                      2
                                    TAYLORSVILLE, UTAH
                                    ORDINANCE NO. 21- 14

      AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF TAYLORSVILLE APPROVING TEXT
  AMENDMENTS TO THE TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE CHAPTER 13. 35:
      NOTICE REQUIREMENTS, TO UPDATE THE CITY' S PUBLIC NOTICING
                       STANDARDS TO ALIGN WITH STATE LAW.


       WHEREAS, the Taylorsville      City Council ( the " Council") met in regular session on
October 6, 2021, to consider, among other things, approving a text amendment to the Taylorsville
Municipal Code Chapter 13. 35: Notice Requirements, to Update the City' s Public Noticing
Standards to Align with State Law; and


       WHEREAS, pursuant to TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE Section 13. 35. 030, notice of a
public hearing before the City' s Planning Commission was published in the Deseret News on
September 3, 2021; and


       WHEREAS, the notice of a public hearing before the City' s Planning Commission was
also published on the Utah Public Notice Website on September 1, 2021; and


        WHEREAS, the City' s Planning Commission held a properly noticed public hearing on
the proposed amendments on September 14, 2021, during which the Planning Commission voted
7- 0 to recommend that the Council approve the proposed text amendment; and


       WHEREAS, although not required by City ordinances, the City Council heard courtesy
public comment on the proposed amendments during its regularly scheduled meeting on October
6, 2021; and


       WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Taylorsville to approve the proposed
amendments.




       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Taylorsville City Council that the
proposed   text   amendments   to   the    Taylorsville   Municipal   Code   Chapter   13. 35:   Notice

Requirements, to Update the City' s Public Noticing Standards to Align with State Law, are hereby
approved, as articulated in Exhibit" A."


       This ordinance, assigned Ordinance No. 21- 14, shall take effect as soon as it shall be
published or posted as required by law, deposited and recorded in the office of the City Recorder,
and accepted as required herein.




                                                   3
      PASSED AND APPROVED this                           day of                            2021.



                                                 TAYLORSVILLE CITY COUNCIL




                                                 By:
                                                        Curt Cochran, Council Chair




                                                 VOTING:


                                                 Meredith Harker                  Yea      Nay
                                                 Ernest Burgess                   Yea_     Nay
                                                 Daniel Armstrong                 Yea_     Nay
                                                 Curt Cochran                    Yea       Nay_
                                                 Anna Barbieri                    Yea      Nay


      PRESENTED          to   Mayor    of   Taylorsville   for her   approval   this               day of
                     52021.




      APPROVED this                   day of                         52021.




                                                 Mayor Kristie S. Overson
ATTEST:




Jamie Brooks, Recorder



      DEPOSITED in the Recorder' s office this                day of                     2021.


      POSTED this             day of                         2021.




                                                    4
                                                                          Exhibit A



Title 13: Land Development Code

Chapter 13. 35                                   Notice Requirements

13. 35. 010               APPLICANT NOTICE; WAIVER OF REQUIREMENTS:
A.      For each land use application the city shall:
        1.      Notify the applicant of the date, time, and place of each public hearing and public meeting to
                consider the application;

        2.   Provide to each applicant a copy of each staff report regarding the applicant or the pending
             application at least three( 3) business days before the public hearing or public meeting; and
        3.      Notify the applicant of any final action on a pending application.
B.      The applicant may waive the requirements of subsection Al, A2, or A3 of this section.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11-
        2012)



13. 35. 020               THIRD PARTY NOTICE:
A.      For those sections of this title that require notice to adjacent property owners( except as provided
        below), the city shall:
        1.   Mail notice three( 3) business days before the public hearing or public meeting to the record owner
             of each parcel within three hundred feet( 300') of the property that is the subject of the hearing; or
        2.      Post notice on the property with a sign no smaller than eleven inches by seventeen inches( 11" x
                17") and of sufficient durability, print quality, and location that is reasonably calculated to give
                notice to passersby.
B.      The mailed notice to third party property owners under subsection Al of this section shall include both
        property owners within the city boundaries and property owners within adjacent jurisdictions within
        three hundred feet( 300') of the subject property.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)


13. 35. 030               GENERAL PLAN:
        Notice Of General Plan                   emenrdmen+:
A:

        I    The planniRg COMM' SS' An s; h;;'!                    previde netice ef the datet me, and place ef the first public hearing
             to      consider   an   i   mord'     fication   of   all   n      portion   of the   g'   ral   plan   r   mmendatinn




        2.   The city shall pravide ten( I Q) calendar days' notir--
                                                                  p- h- p-fA-.r,-Q the public heaFiRg of itS intent rA ampnd
             the      g
                            ral Plan b

             a.       PiiblisWng14R a Rewspaper of general circ lat' n
                b.    Publishing on the Utah public- nntir-eyebsite•
             c.       Mailing te each affected entity
                      Pest'                  l
             d.                          t
                                                   t three( 3) n         hliG Inratinnc; and
             2.       PlJbl6ShiAgthe city' s eff'c' alyWeho' te

B. A.   General Plan Consideration; Notice Required-
        1.   After a proposed gGeneral pPlan or gGeneral pPlan amendment for all or part of the city has been
             prepared, the pPlanning ca—Commission shall schedule and hold a public hearing to consider the
                proposed plan or plan amendment after notice is given as set forth below.

        2.   After the pPlanning ECommission has forwarded the proposed gGeneral PPlan or amendment to
             the c-City ECouncil, the c-Council shall hold a public meeting on the proposal after notice is given as
                set forth below.




City of Taylorsville, LIT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020
                                                                                      Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                                 Chapter 13. 35 Notice Requirements
                                                                                                           13. 35. 030 GENERAL PLAN:



      3.    The citysh            lie

            a.
                    Wet6ce ef the date, time, and place ef the first public heariRg to CORSideF the erig*Ral adoption

                    Alntire
            b.                of   each
                                          public    eetiRg OR the subject.
C.    N' Atir-p FAr Pi hhr HQArings Each ROtice ef a public hearing tG consider the Griginal adoption OF a%'
                 A A-f all owr
      medificatie_.
                                    any pertion of a general plan -; h-;;" be-;; t le_;st ten( 10) caleRdar daYS befere the
      public hearing and shall be.-
      1.    Ri hli; hind ' r. a Pewspaper of general EirAIl;# iAR inthe

      2.    t A: Wer! to each affected entity; nn



D.    Nerice For Public MeetiRgS; Each nGtice of a public meeting te censider the eriginal adOptieR GF any
      mAdific; tiep Af all or ny portion ef a general plan shall he at lea t tWeRty fE) wr( 24) heurs bef
      meeting and Shall be-

            R,    hl' s; hRd it                    nfr      I     Int'
                                                                             the

      2     PA4Pd
                            at least three( 3) public' er3tiARS WwthiR the City 9F GR the city' s effic-0: d wphrite ( Ord. 12.
            151
                   7 11 2012)


B.    Notice of Intent
      1.    Before preparing a proposed General Plan or a comprehensive General Plan amendment, the city
            shall provide ten( 10) calendar days' notice of the city's intent to prepare the proposed General Plan
            or comprehensive General Plan amendment:

            a.
                    To each affected entity, as defined in Utah Code§ 10- 9a- 103( 3);
            b.      To the Utah Geospatial Resource Center created in Utah Code§ 63A- 16- 505;
            c.      To the Wasatch Front Regional Council; and
            d.      On the Utah Public Notice Website created under Utah Code§ 63A- 16- 601.

      2.    Each notice required by subsection( E)( 1) shall:
            a.      Indicate that the city intends to prepare a General Plan or a General Plan amendment, as
                    applicable:

            b.      Describe or provide a map of the geographic area that will be affected by the General Plan or
                    amendment;

            c.      Be sent by mail, e- mail, or other effective means;
            d.      Invite the affected entities to provide information for the city to consider in the process of
                    preparing, adopting, and implementing a General Plan or amendment concerning:
                     1)     Impacts that the use of land proposed in the proposed General Plan or amendment may
                            have; and
                    U       Uses of land within the city that the affected entity is considering that may conflict with
                            the proposed General Plan or amendment; and

            e.      Include the address of an Internet website, if the city has one, and the name and telephone
                    number of an individual where more information can be obtained concerning the city' s
                    proposed General Plan or amendment.


C.    Notice of Public Hearin
      1.   The city shall provide:

            a.      Notice of the date time and place of the first public hearing to consider the original adoption
                    or any modification of all or any portion of a General Plan; and
            b.      Notice of each public meeting on the subject.
      2     Each notice of a public hearing shall be at least ten 00) calendar days before the public hearing and
            shall be:




City of Taylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                             2
                                                                                 Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                           Chapter 13. 35 Notice Requirements
                                                                    13. 35. 040 ZONE DISTRICT MAP AND LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE:




           a.    Published on the Utah Public Notice Website created in Utah Code§ 63A- 16- 601:
            b.   Mailed to each affected entity, as defined in Utah Code§ 10- 9a- 103( 3): and
           c.    Posted:

                 1)     In at least three( 33) public locations within the city: or
                 2)     On the city' s official website.

D.    Notice of Public Meeting
      Each notice of a public meeting shall be at least twenty-four( 24) hours before the meeting and shall be:
      1.    Published on the Utah Public Notice Website created in Utah Code§ 63A- 16- 601: and

      2.    Posted:

           a.    In at least three( 3) public locations within the city: or
           b.    On the city's official website.


13. 35. 040       ZONE DISTRICT MAP AND LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE:

A.    Zone District Map Aand Land Development Code Consideration.-
                                                               onsideration:

      11. The p2lanning ECommission shall hold a public hearing to consider and make recommendations to
          the c0ty ECouncil on a proposed ILand dDevelopment cCode, zone district map or amendment
           thereto after notice is given as set forth below.

      2.   After the pElanning ECommission has forwarded the proposed zone district map or ILand
           dDevelopment ECode or amendment and its recommendation to the ECity cCouncil, the ECouncil
           shall consider each proposed ILand dDevelopment c-Code, zone district map or amendment thereto
           at a public meeting after notice is given as set forth below.
B.    Notice of Public Hearine
      Each notice of a public hearing required by subsection( B) above shall be:
      1.   Mailed to each affected entity, as defined in Utah Code§ 10- 9a- 103( 3), at least ten( 10) calendar days
           before the public hearing: and
      2.    Posted:

           a.    In at least three( 33) public locations within the city: or
           b.    On the city's official website: and
      3     Posted on the Utah Public Notice Website created in Utah Code§ 63A- 16- 601, at least ten( 10)
           calendar days before the public hearing: or
      4.    Mailed at least ten( 10) days before the public hearing to:
           a     Each property owner whose land is directly affected by the land use ordinance change: and
            b    The record owner of each parcel within three hundred feet( 300') of the property that is the
                 subject of the hearing.

C.    Notice of Public Meeting
      Each notice of a public meeting required by subsection( A)( 2) shall be posted at least twenty-four( 24)
      hours before the public meeting:

      1.    In at least three( 3) public locations within the city: or
      2.    On the city's official website.

D     Zoning Map Enactment or Amendment- Courtesy Notice
      The city shall send a courtesy notice to each owner of private real property whose property is located
      entirely or partially within a proposed zoning map enactment or amendment at least ten( 10) days before
      the scheduled day of the public hearing.
      1.   The notice shall:



City of Taylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                       3
                                                                                             Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                                        Chapter 13. 35 Notice Requirements
                                                                                                       13. 35. 050 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS:



             a.      Identify with specificity each owner of record of real property that will be affected by the
                     proposed zoning map or map amendments;
             b.      State the current zone in which the real property is located;
             c.      State the proposed new zone for the real property;
             d.      Provide information regarding or a reference to the proposed regulations, prohibitions, and
                     permitted uses that the property will be subject to if the zoning map or map amendment is
                     adopted;

             e.      State that the owner of real property may no later than ten( 10) days after the day of the first
                     public hearing file a written objection to the inclusion of the owner' s property in the proposed
                     zoning map or map amendment;
             f.      State the address where the property owner should file the protest;
             g.      Notify the property owner that each written objection filed with the municipality will be
                     provided to the City Council; and
             h.      State the location, date, and time of the public hearing to consider the zoning map or map
                     amendment.


      2.     The courtesy notice required by this subsection( D) may be included in or part of the mailed notice
             described in subsection( 13)( 4) above, rather than sent separately.
B.    Netice Reqwired The city shall provide natice of the date, tirne and place of the first public hea4"

      give notice of each public meeting nn the subject.

C.

            A-F.diRance Or ZGRe sdistr' ct map shall be..
      1.     M_;4IP_d tA- each affected entity at least ten ( 10) caleRdar days befere the public heariRg;
      2.     PG) StP_C_i iA —;;
                             t
                                           thFee( 3) PLAbliC 1A_r_-
                                                                 atdA_Rq_withiR the City Gr GR the city' s efficial website; -apd-
             D     hrsherd
      I                      o
                                     ai' 4244


                                                                                                         ten( I Q) calendar days

                     before thepublic hearing; or
             b.      Mailed at least three( 3) days before thepublic heariRg to:
                     1)
                             Each property owner, n, hose land is directly affected by the rode er zone rdistri t rRap
                             change;       an rd
                             change;
                              rrv' b -And-

                     2)
                             affer   erd




D.                N.41-QetFRg Notice: The city shall previdle nerice fer each public meeting en the subject at least twenty
      fe , r( til) heurs before the meeting an,-d shall post the nntire-
      1
             In at least three( 3) public locations;.yith' n the r' fir or
      7
             On the city' s official website.( Ord            12- 15, 741_2012)



13. 35. 050           SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS:

A.    Subdivision Regulations Consideration.-
                               onsideration:

      11.    The pPlanning ECommission shall hold a public hearing to consider and recommend to the ECity
             ECouncil proposed ordinances regulating the subdivision of land or amendments thereto after
             notice is given as set forth below.

      2.     After the pPlanning ECommission has forwarded the proposed ordinances regulating the
             subdivision of land or amendments thereto and its recommendation to the ECity ECouncil, the
             ECouncil shall consider each proposed ordinance regulating the subdivision of land or amendment
             thereto at a public meeting after notice is given as set forth below.




City of Taylorsville, LIT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                                  Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                                                                                    Chapter 13. 35 Notice Requirements
                                                                                                                                  13. 35. 060 SUBDIVISION PLATS AND AMENDMENTS:



B.    WA_
       t`      e
                    Required:                                                                  the             time         7                tb     first            h
                         red: The city
                                                       shall                 entice      of            r1ate     m     on       nlRre   of                                         t
                                                                  give                                                                                      public



      mooting nn the c , b' ert



C.—   Public Hearing NIAtir-e- Fach petice of a public heaFiRg tG GAA'; idQr ArdiA; nces that Fegul;; rp rhLa
            bdivisinn         of   land   within       the       city,   or
                                                                                     nrlments shill hp-
      Su

      1.

               Be nester!:
      2.
                         In        least three(                    bl' c
               a.
                              at
                                                        3)   n

                                                                                                            the city;
               b.        Onthecity's eficiall webs4e; aRCIrt
               D    bl' sherl A-.r mail--4,,



                         hefere the public heor' n
               b.        Mailedt!least three( 3) days before the                                           uhlir hearing49:

                         1)        Each PrGPE?4y OWRer i. vhos;                          iQ
                                                                                              Lind         directly affected by the sybriiwisieA Ardin; Ince change;
                                   aR4

                         2)        The mailed Refice te third party preperty GWReFS under st ibsectien 1;!                                                       35 02041 of this
                                   chanter    shall
                                                             include beth preperty&.                         ynersyAthin         the    city   hn    iRdar' e
                                                                                                                                                                     Rd
                                                                                                                                                                           n       ert.,




                                   ewners     within          adjacent '           ir' scl' ct' n       syAth'    n
                                                                                                                      three hI nrlred feet( 300')               of   the       b    ct




D.    Public N.4P_etiRg Notice: Eadh PA_tice A-f a public meeting te GGRSider erdflpaAces that regulate the
      ri- hdi- riAn Af IAPPI withon the city or ;imenrinnents shall he At least twenty four( 24) hours before the
      meet' s        and shall he nncte&

      1        In        least     three(               hl' c                                 thin   the   city   n
                    of
                                            3)     n
                                                                  IC)          Als .,'

      7                                                                      Ord
              OR the          city' s   official   website               (
                                                                                   12 1              7_11_ 24124

B.    Notice of Public Hearft
      Each notice of a public hearing required by subsection (A)( 1) above shall be in accordance with the
      noticing procedures established in subsection 13. 35.040B.

C.    Notice of Public Meeting?
      Each notice of a public meeting required by subsection( A)(2) above shall be in accordance with the
      noticing procedures established in subsection 13. 35. 040C.


13. 35. 060               SUBDIVISION PLATS AND AMENDMENTS:

A.    Subdivision Plat Consideration.-
                        onsideration:

      11.     The pPlanning ECommission shall hold a public hearing to consider a preliminary subdivision plat or
              an amendment to a preliminary subdivision plat after notice is given as set forth below.
      2.       If an entire subdivision is vacated, the ECity ECouncil shall consider the matter at a public meeting
              and pass a resolution containing a legal description of the entire vacated subdivision to be recorded
               in the ECounty rRecorder' s oOffice.
B.    Public Hearing Notice:
      B. The city shall give notice of the date, time, and place of a public hearing as follows:
      1.       Mailed not less than ten ( 10) calendar days before the public hearing and addressed to the record
              owner of each parcel within the subdivision plat and the record owner of each parcel within three

               hundred feet( 300') of the property proposed for subdivision or an amendment to a subdivision; or




City of Taylorsville, LIT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                                                                                      5
                                                                                         Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                                    Chapter 13. 35 Notice Requirements
                                                                                      13. 35. 070 CONDOMINIUM PLATS AND AMENDMENTS:



       2.     Posted not less than ten( 10) calendar days before the public hearing on the property proposed for
              subdivision or amendment, in a visible location, with a sign of sufficient size, durability, and print
              quality that is reasonably calculated to give notice to passersby; and
       3      If a proposed amendment involves the vacation, alteration, amendment, or closure of a street, the

              city shall:

       a.     Publish the          tiC_-
                                      P_ A_A.CP_ R._ AdQLQk fc)r fc)ur( 4) cc)n,; Pc- aivp wppk,; before the heariRg in a newspaper e
              geReral
                              ulati9R; and

              Mail                     h
       b3.           notice
                              to   e-qr-   affer-
                                                 tecal
                                                 hold a public hearing and give notice of the date, place, and time
              of the public hearing in accordance with Utah Code§ 10- 9a- 208.
       4.     If a preliminary plat is being considered that describes a multiple- unit residential development or a
              commercial or industrial development, notice shall be mailed not less than three( 3) calendar days
              before the public hearing to each affected entity.
C.     By Petition: If a petition has been filed to amend a subdivision pursuant to Utah Code§ 10- 9a- 608- I Itch
                                                                                                                     f:
       GAdcQ eAAAt; ite.1 the public hearing shall be within forty five( 45) days after the petition has been filed if-
       1.1.   An owner within the plat notifies the city of their objection to a proposed vacation, alteration, or
              amendment of a subdivision plat, in writing, within ten( 10) calendar days of mailed notification; or
       2.     All the owners in the subdivision have not signed the revised plat.

D.     Public Meeting Notice: Each notice of a public meeting to consider the vacation of an entire subdivision
       shall be at least twenty- four( 24) hours before the meeting and shall be posted:
       1.     In at least three( 3) public locations within the city; ardor
       2.     On the city's official website.( Ord. 12. 15, 7 11 201 2)


13. 35. 070          CONDOMINIUM PLATS AND AMENDMENTS:

If required by other provisions of this code or state law, the pPlanning ECommission shall consider a
condominium plat at a public hearing and comply with the noticing requirements therein. If a public hearing is
not required, the pPlanning ECommission shall consider the condominium plat at a public meeting.( 9fd.
12 i 0 7- 11- 204-2)



13. 35. 080          STREET VACATIONS, ALTERATIONS, AMENDMENTS OR CLOSURES
                       NOT WITHIN A SUBDIVISION PLAT):
A.     Consideration Of Public Street Vacations, Alterations, Amendments, Or Closures:

       1.     Consideration of vacation, alteration, amendment or closure of public streets that are within a

              subdivision plat shall comply with the hearing and notice provisions set forth for subdivision plat
              amendments above.


       2.     For consideration of the vacation, alteration, amendment, or closure of public streets that are not

              within a subdivision plat, the planning commission shall hold a public hearing to consider the
              vacation, alteration, amendment, or closure.


B.     Public Hearing Notice: The Planning CGMMiSsieR" t shall give notice of the date, place, and time of a
       public hearing hefere it tt^ for the Planning Commission to consider a vacation, alteration, amendment, or
       closure of a public street in accordance with Utah Code§ 1 0- 9a- 208q,; fellews:

C.     Mailing netice Per lk-; s, thaR teR( 10) Calendar days befere the heariRg addreSSed te the reC-erd AWAPIf A
       each parcel adjacent te the 199rtieR of the public street prepesed te be vacated, altered, amended A

                                                heyacarerl -,
       street   which
                        is   proposed      to
                                                                ite red   ended o closed nnrl to ondh affected entity. The
       Aq; WPd nw4r-p tA third party prc)perty Awners - indersi ihsectien 12 : F4 Q2041 of this chapter shall include



City of Taylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                                   6
                                                                                      Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                                                   Chapter 13. 36
                                                                                         13. 35.090 GENERAL NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:




        Afithin   three
                          hum- Ired foot( 300')   of   the
                                                             subject pre          d
                                                                           rty;
D. B.

                          the. m.-Hpicipality In which the Iand subjectte the prepesal as located.( QFd. 12 15, 741- 2012)


13. 35. 090          GENERAL NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
For those sections of this title which require public hearings or public meetings for which the notice
requirements are not specified, notice shall be as follows:

A.      Application Concerning Specific Parcel Of Property; Notice Of Public Hearing: For an application that
        concerns a specific parcel of property, the city shall provide notice of the date, time, and place of a public
        hearing that is:
        1.
              Posted not less than ten( 10) calendar days before the public hearing in at least three( 3) public
              locations within the city or on the city' s official website;
        2.    Mailed not less than ten( 10) calendar days before the public hearing and addressed to the record
              owner of each parcel directly affected by the application and of each parcel within three hundred
              feet( 300') of that property. The mailed notice to third parry property owners under subsection
              13. 35. 020A1 of this chapter shall include both property owners within the city boundaries and
              property owners within adjacent jurisdictions within three hundred feet( 300') of the subject
              property; or
        3.    Posted not less than ten( 10) calendar days before the public hearing, on the property to which the
              application pertains, in a visible location, with a sign of sufficient size, durability, and print quality
              that is reasonably calculated to give notice to passersby.
B.      Application Not Concerning Specific Parcel Of Property; Notice Of Public Hearing: For an application that
        does not concern a specific parcel of property( i. e., text change), the city shall provide notice of the date,
        time, and place of a public hearing that is posted not less than ten( 10) calendar days before the public
        hearing in at least three( 3) public locations within the city or on the city' s official website.
C.      Notice For Public Meetings: The city shall provide notice of a public meeting at least twenty four( 24)
        hours before the meeting that shall be posted in at least three( 3) public locations within the city or on
        the city' s official website.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)


13. 35. 100          NOTICE CHALLENGE:

If notice given under authority of this chapter is not challenged pursuant to the provisions of this code within
thirty( 30) calendar days after the meeting or action for which notice is given, then notice is considered
adequate and proper.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)




City of Taylorsville, LIT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                          7
Utah Code
                                                    Exhibit B
    Effective 7/ 1/ 2021
    10- 9a- 203 Notice of intent to prepare a general plan or comprehensive general plan
    amendments in certain municipalities.
     1)    Before preparing a proposed general plan or a comprehensive general plan amendment, each
           municipality within a county of the first or second class shall provide 10 calendar days notice of
           the municipality' s intent to prepare a proposed general plan or a comprehensive general plan
           amendment:

          a) to each affected entity;
          b) to the Utah Geospatial Resource Center created in Section 63A- 16- 505;
          c) to the association of governments, established pursuant to an interlocal agreement under Title
            11, Chapter 13, Interlocal Cooperation Act, of which the municipality is a member; and
          d) on the Utah Public Notice Website created under Section 63A- 16- 601.
     2) Each notice under Subsection ( 1) shall:
          a) indicate that the municipality intends to prepare a general plan or a comprehensive general
             plan amendment, as the case may be;
          b) describe or provide a map of the geographic area that will be affected by the general plan or
            amendment;

          c) be sent by mail, e- mail, or other effective means;
          d) invite the affected entities to provide information for the municipality to consider in the process
              of preparing, adopting, and implementing a general plan or amendment concerning:
            i) impacts that the use of land proposed in the proposed general plan or amendment may
              have; and
           ii) uses of land within the municipality that the affected entity is considering that may conflict
              with the proposed general plan or amendment; and

          e) include the address of an Internet website, if the municipality has one, and the name and
             telephone number of an individual where more information can be obtained concerning the
            municipality's proposed general plan or amendment.


    Amended by Chapter 84, 2021 General Session
    Amended by Chapter 162, 2021 General Session
    Amended by Chapter 345, 2021 General Session




                                                       Page 1
Utah Code



    Effective 7/ 1/ 2021
    10- 9a- 204 Notice of public hearings and public meetings to consider general plan or
    modifications.

     1)    Each municipality shall provide:
          a) notice of the date, time, and place of the first public hearing to consider the original adoption
            or any modification of all or any portion of a general plan; and
          b) notice of each public meeting on the subject.
     2) Each notice of a public hearing under Subsection ( 1)( a) shall be at least 10 calendar days
           before the public hearing and shall be:
          a) published on the Utah Public Notice Website created in Section 63A- 16- 601;
          b) mailed to each affected entity; and
          c) posted:

           i) in at least three public locations within the municipality; or
           ii) on the municipality's official website.
     3) Each notice of a public meeting under Subsection ( 1)( b) shall be at least 24 hours before the
           meeting and shall be:
          a) published on the Utah Public Notice Website created in Section 63A- 16- 601; and
          b) posted:
           i) in at least three public locations within the municipality; or
           ii) on the municipality's official website.

    Amended by Chapter 84, 2021 General Session
    Amended by Chapter 345, 2021 General Session
    Amended by Chapter 355, 2021 General Session




                                                        Page 1
Utah Code



    Effective 7/ 1/ 2021
    10- 9a- 205 Notice of public hearings and public meetings on adoption or modification of land
    use regulation.

     1)    Each municipality shall give:
          a) notice of the date, time, and place of the first public hearing to consider the adoption or any
                modification of a land use regulation; and
          b) notice of each public meeting on the subject.
     2) Each notice of a public hearing under Subsection ( 1)( a) shall be:

          a) mailed to each affected entity at least 10 calendar days before the public hearing;
          b) posted:
               i) in at least three public locations within the municipality; or
               ii) on the municipality' s official website; and
          c)

               i) posted on the Utah Public Notice Website created in Section 63A- 16- 601, at least 10
                   calendar days before the public hearing; or
               ii) mailed at least 10 days before the public hearing to:
                  A) each property owner whose land is directly affected by the land use ordinance change;
                   and

                B) each adjacent property owner within the parameters specified by municipal ordinance.
    3) Each notice of a public meeting under Subsection ( 1)( b) shall be posted at least 24 hours

           before the meeting:
          a) in at least three public locations within the municipality; or
          b) on the municipality's official website.
    4)

          a) A municipality shall send a courtesy notice to each owner of private real property whose
             property is located entirely or partially within a proposed zoning map enactment or
             amendment at least 10 days before the scheduled day of the public hearing.
          b) The notice shall:
               i) identify with specificity each owner of record of real property that will be affected by the
                 proposed zoning map or map amendments;
               ii) state the current zone in which the real property is located;
               iii) state the proposed new zone for the real property;
               iv) provide information regarding or a reference to the proposed regulations, prohibitions, and
                    permitted uses that the property will be subject to if the zoning map or map amendment is
                 adopted;

           v) state that the owner of real property may no later than 10 days after the day of the first
              public hearing file a written objection to the inclusion of the owner's property in the proposed
                 zoning map or map amendment;
            vi) state the address where the property owner should file the protest;
            vii) notify the property owner that each written objection filed with the municipality will be
                provided to the municipal legislative body; and
            viii) state the location, date, and time of the public hearing described in Section 10- 9a- 502.
          c) If a municipality mails notice to a property owner in accordance with Subsection ( 2)( c)( ii) for
             a public hearing on a zoning map or map amendment, the notice required in this Subsection
               4) may be included in or part of the notice described in Subsection ( 2)( c)( ii) rather than sent
               separately.


    Amended by Chapter 84, 2021 General Session


                                                             Page 1
Utah Code



    Amended by Chapter 345, 2021 General Session
    Amended by Chapter 355, 2021 General Session




                                            Page 2
