                                              rr



                                    CITY COUNCIL
                           AGENDA SUMMARY FORM
                           COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

          MEETING DATE:    January 19, 2022
           AGENDA ITEM:    AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF TAYLORSVILLE APPROVING TEXT AMENDMENTS
                             TO TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE CHAPTER 13. 21; SECTION 13. 36. 130; AND
                               SECTION 13. 36. 200, RELATED TO PRIVATE LANES AND SHARED DRIVEWAYS.

                  FILE#:   4Z21

PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED:     Yes       0 No

    ORDINANCE REQUIRED:    0 Yes        No

   RESOLUTION REQUIRED:      Yes       0 No

                AUTHOR:    Jim Spung, AICP, Senior Planner
             PRESENTER:    Jim Spung, AICP, Senior Planner
              SUMMARY:     Request
                           Steve McCutchan, on behalf of Theresa Thornberg, is requesting a text amendment
                           to the Taylorsville Municipal Code Chapter 13. 21; Section 13. 36. 130; and Section
                            13. 36. 200, related to private lanes and shared driveways. The applicant has also filed
                           a separate General Plan Map amendment and Zoning Map amendment request for
                           the property at 3503 W. 4700 S. in Taylorsville. Those applications are dependent
                           on this request as the intent of the property owner is to construct townhouses on the
                           property.


                           Context
                           The demand for housing in the Salt Lake Valley has increased dramatically in the
                           last decade, which has pressured communities to consider accommodating a wider
                           range of housing types. As a result, the Wasatch Front has seen an influx in the
                           number of requests to construct single- family attached products( townhouses). Due
                           to their efficient use of land, infrastructure, and unit size, newly constructed
                           townhouse dwellings are commonly offered at a lower price point than a new single-
                           family detached dwelling. Due to these factors, townhouse products tend to be more
                           affordable and desirable for those who do not want the maintenance and upkeep that
                           is associated with a single- family detached home.

                           A typical practice for townhouse development is shared use of a common
                           access/ driveway that serves two or more dwelling units. Taylorsville' s current
                           zoning code does not allow more than two dwelling units to share a common
                           access/ driveway; instead, each unit must be served by a driveway with direct access
                           to a public or private street. This has proven challenging for townhouse proposals
                           that follow a different development pattern than traditional single- family detached
                           housing. An individual driveway access for each townhouse dwelling unit results in




                                                 1
several driveways closely spaced along the street frontage—posing potential conflict
points for pedestrians on sidewalks and autos pulling in and backing out of
driveways. This is not a desirable streetscape treatment as there would be little area
for landscaping ( mostly concrete driveways) and front building facades would
primarily consist of garages.


While there are few zoning districts that allow townhouse development in
Taylorsville( Residential Multifamily( RM), Mixed-Use( MU), and Transit Corridor
 TC) zoning districts), the inability to share a common access has proven difficult
and inefficient for any townhouse arrangement, unless unique standards are
negotiated as part of a Site- Specific Development ( SSD) zoning district ( e.g.,
Muirhouse).


Common driveway use has also become more popular for traditional detached
single- family homes. This arrangement may be more efficient and allows for
increased creativity and flexibility for development on property that would
otherwise be difficult to develop with a more traditional approach.

Background

This ordinance request was initially brought before the City Council on May 19,
2021 as Ordinance 21- 09. During that meeting, the item was tabled unanimously( 4-
0) to allow city staff more time to study and investigate how many areas of the City
would be affected by the proposed ordinance. In accordance with the City Council' s
request, staff has prepared a summary of the research identifying which properties
in the city may be affected by the ordinance.

Summary of Research
Exhibit C of this report includes the data and maps used to summarize the
information below. The criteria below was used to identify which properties in the
city may be affected by this ordinance:

         Current zoning allows single- family detached or townhouse dwellings;
         Property has sufficient land area to subdivide into three or more lots( based
         on current zoning);
         Property is privately owned( excludes churches, schools, utilities, etc.);
         Property has direct access to a public or private street; and
         Development would not require the extension of an existing stub street or
         cul- de- sac beyond the maximum length allowed in code.


After applying the above criteria, staff identified 97 properties that could potentially
be subdivided and further developed. Of those 97 properties, approximately 35
would be dependent on the private lane text amendment to develop — as the

properties have inadequate space and/ or an irregular shape that would prevent the
construction of a public or private street to serve any newly created lots.
Approximately seven ofthose properties are currently zoned for townhouse or multi-
family development.

 Staff Analysis
In the summer of 2021, staff shared this research with city administration to solicit
feedback and to receive guidance on the best path forward. After reviewing the
information, additional concerns were raised related to the proposed amendment:




                     2
                                        Impacts that shared driveway development may have to existing single-
                                        family neighborhood character.
                                        Ensuring sufficient landscape and buffering standards adjacent to driving
                                        surfaces and surrounding properties.
                                        Ensuring adequate off-street parking to minimize impacts to adjacent
                                        neighborhoods.



                                After several attempts to address the above concerns, administration did not feel
                                comfortable recommending approval of the text amendments. After coming to this
                                conclusion, staff notified the applicant and provided them with a few options to
                                move forward. After discussion, the applicant elected to proceed with the text
                                amendment without staff' s support. In an effort to address some of the concerns
                                raised by the City Council during the May 19, 2021 meeting, the applicant has
                                provided additional revisions that may be considered by the City Council. The
                                applicant' s proposed revisions are included in Exhibit D.


     STAFF RECOMMENDATION:     Based on the findings in this report, staff does not recommend the City Council
                               approve this ordinance at this time. This subject may be revisited as part of the
                               larger and more comprehensive Land Development Code update project; which
                               may allow for a more comprehensive approach to allow other forms of
                               development in Taylorsville.

        PLANNING COMMISSION    0 Approve           Deny
           RECOMMENDATION:

  PLANNING COMMISSION VOTE:    6- 0

SUMMARY OF PUBLIC COMMENTS:    None.

          ATTORNEY' S OFFICE   0 Yes        No

              ATTACHMENTS:     Ordinance No. 22-01 with corresponding Exhibit A
                               Exhibit B: City Council Meeting Minutes from May 19, 2021
                               Exhibit C: Requested Staff Research
                               Exhibit D: Applicant' s revised amendment




                                                    3
                                   TAYLORSVILLE, UTAH
                                    ORDINANCE NO. 22- 01


      AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF TAYLORSVILLE APPROVING TEXT
     AMENDMENTS TO TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE CHAPTER 13. 21;
 SECTION 13. 36. 130; AND SECTION 13.36.200, RELATED TO PRIVATE LANES AND
                                    SHARED DRIVEWAYS.


       WHEREAS, the Taylorsville        City Council ( the " Council") met in regular session on
January 15, 2022, to consider, among other things, approving a text amendment to the Taylorsville
Municipal Code Chapter 13. 21; Section 13. 36. 130; and Section 13. 36.200, related to private lanes
and shared driveways; and


       WHEREAS, pursuant to TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE Section 13. 35. 030, notice of a
public hearing before the City' s Planning Commission was published in the Deseret News on April
16, 2021; and


       WHEREAS, the notice of a public hearing before the City' s Planning Commission was
also published on the Utah Public Notice Website on April 15, 2021; and


        WHEREAS, the City' s Planning Commission held a properly noticed public hearing on
the proposed amendments on April 27, 2021, during which the Planning Commission voted 6- 0 to
recommend that the Council approve the proposed text amendment; and


        WHEREAS, although not required by City ordinances, the City Council heard courtesy
public comment on the proposed amendments during its regularly scheduled meeting on May 19,
2021; and


       WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Taylorsville to approve the proposed
amendments.




       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Taylorsville City Council that the
proposed text amendments to the Taylorsville Municipal Code Chapter 13. 21; Section 13. 36. 130;
and Section 13. 36. 200, are hereby approved, as articulated in Exhibit" A."

       This ordinance, assigned Ordinance No. 22- 01, shall take effect as soon as it shall be
published or posted as required by law, deposited and recorded in the office of the City Recorder,
and accepted as required herein.




                                                 4
      PASSED AND APPROVED this                       day of                           92022.




                                             TAYLORSVILLE CITY COUNCIL




                                             By:
                                                    Anna Barbieri, Council Chair



                                             VOTING:


                                             Meredith Harker                  Yea_     Nay
                                             Ernest Burgess                   Yea      Nay
                                             Robert Knudsen                   Yea      Nay
                                             Curt Cochran                     Yea_     Nay
                                             Anna Barbieri                    Yea      Nay


      PRESENTED      to   Mayor    of   Taylorsville   for her   approval   this               day of
                     12022.




      APPROVED this               day of                         12022.




                                             Mayor Kristie S. Overson
ATTEST:




Jamie Brooks, Recorder



      DEPOSITED in the Recorder' s office this             day of                    2022.


      POSTED this         day of                         2022.




                                                5
           Exhibit A
                                                                              Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                 Chapter 13. 21 Subdivision Design Standards
                                                                        13. 21. 090 ALTERATION OR RELOCATION OF WATERWAYS:



      2.   The developer shall provide groundwater information to each lot purchaser/ owner and disclose the
            information on the plat.

B.    If required, groundwater drainage systems shall be designed and installed in accordance with
      construction standards and specifications determined by the city engineer.
C.    All drainage systems shall be extended to the outermost boundaries of the subdivision by the developer,
      or farther if necessary, to provide service.
D.    The city may prohibit basements in high water table areas upon recommendation from the city engineer.
E.    If a public utility is outside the public right of way, the developer and subsequent homeowner shall be
      responsible for maintenance.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)



13. 21. 090      ALTERATION OR RELOCATION OF WATERWAYS:
A.    A request for alteration or relocation of a waterway shall first be submitted to the city engineer to ensure
      the following:
      1.   The flow capacity and velocity of the waterway will not change with the proposed alteration or
            relocation.


      2.   The soils conditions in the proposed location will not increase flooding potential.
      3.   The proposed waterway can be maintained.
B.    After approval by the city engineer, alteration or relocation of any waterway shall be submitted and
      approved by all applicable agencies.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)


13. 21. 100      STREETS:
A.    All roads and roadway features are required to meet minimum geometric design standards established
      by the American Association Of State Highway And Transportation Officials( AASHTO) and other
      applicable entities. All street and right of way improvements shall be designed and constructed in
      accordance with the city standards. All signs, pavement markings, and traffic control signals must meet
      standards established by the" Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices"( MUTCD) and other applicable
      agencies, and related roadway standards established by state, federal, or local law. Exceptions to
      applicable standards may be granted by the city engineer on a case by case basis and shall demonstrate
      innovative superiority or other advantages over existing standards.
B.    The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade, and location of all streets shall conform to the
      transportation master plan and shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned streets,
      topographical conditions, public convenience and safety, and in their appropriate relation to the
      proposed uses of the land to be served by such streets.
C.    Where the transportation master plan does not show proposed streets, the arrangement of streets in a
      subdivision shall either:


      1.    Provide for the continuation or appropriate projection of existing principal streets in surrounding
            areas( providing for neighborhood connectivity with the purpose of spreading traffic); or
      2.    Conform to a plan for the neighborhood approved or adopted by the director to meet a particular
            situation where topographical or other conditions make continuance or conformance to existing
            streets impracticable.

D.    At least two( 2) points of ingress/ egress shall be provided for each subdivision or PUD project unless the

      project has one or more of the following:
      1.    A single cul- de- sac, hammerhead, or other approved turnaround approved by the UFA and city
            engineer that complies with all development standards herein.

      2.    An emergency access approved by the director.




City of Taylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                   173
            Exhibit A
                                                                         Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                            Chapter 13. 21 Subdivision Design Standards
                                                                                                     13. 21. 100 STREETS:



      3.    The future extension of a stub street that will provide additional access including a temporary
            turnaround approved by the UFA and city engineer.
E.    Stub streets that are longer than one hundred fifty feet( 150') shall have a temporary turnaround.
F.    The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provision for the continuation of the existing
      streets in adjoining areas and shall provide access to unsubdivided adjoining areas insofar as such
      continuation or access shall be deemed necessary by the planning commission. New streets must
      connect with existing public streets.
G.    Street right of way widths shall be as shown on the transportation master plan, and where not shown
      therein, shall not be less than the following:




City ofTaylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                               174
            Exhibit A
                                                                              Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                 Chapter 13. 21 Subdivision Design Standards
                                                                                             13. 21. 110 PRIVATE STREETS/ LANES:




        Street type                                                    Right of Way Width

        Major arterial                                                       106+ feet

        Major collector                                                       80 feet

        Minor collector                                                       66 feet

        Local                                                                 50 feet

        Local rebuild                                                         42 feet

        Private streetAme type:

        Private street                                      50 feet( 26 foot pavement width minimum)

                                                            29 foot( 29 f99t FaV@PA@At Width
                                                                                               m
                                                                                                       M)




H.     Half streets are prohibited.

I.     A cul- de-sac is discouraged but may be permitted on local streets and shall be terminated by a
       turnaround of not less than ninety two feet( 92') in diameter as measured from top back of curb to top
       back of curb. A cul- de- sac shall not exceed four hundred feet( 400') in length in a residential zone. A cul-
       de-sac in the sensitive area overlay zone shall not exceed six hundred feet( 600') in length unless
       otherwise permitted by the planning commission upon recommendation from the city engineer. A cul-
       de-sac length is measured from its intersection with another street to the end of the cul- de- sac
       turnaround.

J.     Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible at right angles.
K.     No street names shall be used which will duplicate the names of existing streets. Street names are
       subject to the approval of the director and Salt Lake County recorder's office.
L.     Local streets shall be laid out to provide neighborhood connectivity so that traffic is distributed out
       evenly.
M.     Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railroad right of way or limited access highway right of way,
       the planning commission may require a local access street approximately parallel to and on each side of
       such right of way.
N.     Where a subdivision abuts or contains existing double frontage lots or a proposed arterial or collector
       street, the planning commission may require local access streets, reverse frontage with screen planting
       contained in a nonaccess reservation along the rear property line, deep lots with rear service alleys, or
       other such treatment as may be necessary for adequate protection of residential properties and to
       provide separation of through and local traffic.

O.     Park strips shall be required on all streets unless otherwise determined by the planning commission.
       They shall be designed and installed according to the city standards.
 P.    The requirements of this section may be waived or modified by the planning commission after
       considering a recommendation from the city engineer.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)

13. 21. 110        PRIVATE STREETSiLANES:

Full width public street systems shall be installed for access to all residential dwelling sites, unless exempted by
the planning commission. A private streetAaPR- sy&t@m may be approved where it can be shown, based upon
property width, connectivity( or the inability to connect to the existing street patterns), topographical concerns,
overall subdivision design, the ability to provide service( which includes, but is not limited to, snowplowing,
street sweeping, trash collection, and overall street maintenance), that a full width public street may not be the
 best solution for a new subdivision.

A.     Private Street:



City of Taylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                       175
            Exhibit A
                                                                             Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                               Chapter 13. 21 Subdivision Design Standards

                                                                                     13.21. 120 Private LaneShared Driveway


       1.   All roads and roadway features are required to meet minimum geometric design standards
            established by the American Association Of State Highway And Transportation Officials( AASHTO)
            and other applicable entities. All street and right of way improvements shall be designed and
            constructed in accordance with the city standards. All signs, pavement markings, and traffic control
            signals must meet standards established by the" Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices"
             MUTCD) and other applicable agencies, and related roadway standards established by state,
            federal, or local law. Exceptions to applicable standards may be granted by the city engineer on a
            case by case basis and shall demonstrate innovative superiority or other advantages over existing
            standards.


       2.   Approved private streets for access to residential dwelling structures shall have a fifty foot( 50') right
            of way and a twenty six foot( 26') minimum width paved surface. All private streets shall be
            constructed in accordance with the latest edition of the city standards, this land development code,
            and all other applicable city ordinances.
       3.   Private streets shall have appropriate turnaround(s) as determined by the city engineer and UFA.
       4.   The city engineer and UFA shall have the authority to require more than one access road based
            upon the potential for impairment of a single road by vehicle congestion, condition of terrain,
            climatic conditions, or other factors that could limit access.

       5.   Private streets shall not be obstructed in any manner including the parking of vehicles. The
            minimum widths and clearances shall be maintained at all times.

       6.   If a private street is approved, a perpetual maintenance plan shall be established for the

            homeowners' association so that the street is continually maintained as designed.
       7.   Whenever a subdivision is approved with a private street, the final subdivision plat shall include a
            statement that no city maintenance is provided on the private street.

                  Pre• t-*
13. 21. 120                  o '--;
                                  a   Shared Driveway
A shared drivewayarrangement may be considered as an alternative layout for residential subdivisions
allowing up four( 4) single- family detached residential dwelling units and/ or ten( 10) single-family attached
dwelling units to gain access via a shared driveway, provided the layout is approved with a preliminary plat
pursuant to Chapter 13. 30: Subdivision Review. Shared driveways shall comply with the following:
A.     The shared driveway access shall be from a public pr     ivate street and shall not exceed 300 feet in
                                                                r
       length. Length shall be the distance from the edge of the street right-of-waygrantingaccess to the
       farthest point of the shared driveway, following a vehicle route.
B.     A shared drivewavexceeding 150 feet inlength shallin I          n aDDroved vehicle turn-     r    n      r    n

       to City and Unified Fire Authority standards.
C      The shared driveway shall not extend a stub street or cul- de- sac street beyond the distance allowed
       established in Sections 14. 12. 080 and 13. 21. 100.

J)--   The drivable surface( not including curI2and gutter) of the shared driveway shall be a minimum 20 feet
       wide and shall be a solid surface designed to support the weight of emergency vehicles
E.     Flag lots shall not gain access via a shared driveway,
F      Parking on the shared driveway maybe allowed subject to International Fire Code standards. Ifap rking is
       not allowed. the shared driveway shall be marked with permanent signage as required by the
       International Fire Code,

G      Each residential lot gaining access via the shared driveway shall satisfy the minimum building setback
       and lot dimensional requirements of the underlying zoning district For purposes of this subsection the
       area between the shared driveway, public street, and private street shall be a front yard. Setbacks from a
       shared driveway shall be measured from the dwelling structure to the property line, back of curb, or




City of Taylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                 176
            Exhibit A
                                                                                    Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                       Chapter 13. 21 Subdivision Design Standards

                                                                                             13. 21. 120 Private LaneShared Driveway



      closest paved edge of the shared driveway, whichever is closest. The minimum setback from a vehicle
      turn-around or vehicle parking area to the dwelling structure shall be five( 5) feet.
      Th   sh   r   riv   w   shall   b   wi   h'   h   r   d   s   m   n    in f   vor of    III      ry   d b    hg-5   har

      driveway. Such easement shall be recorded on the subdivision plat.
      Maintenance_and repair of shared driveways shall be the res           onsibili     of aropertyowner' s association
      or adjacent property owners and shall be noted on the recorded subdivision plat. The City shall not
      responsible for the maintenance repair, or parking enforcement of a shared driveway.
     Individual driveways IPadingfrom the shared driveways each dwelling unit shall be a minimum of 22
j,_._____
      feet in length measured from the front of the garage or carport to the closest edge of the shared
      driveway. Individual driveway width shall not exceed 30 feet.
tL    Individual driveway lenthe may be reduced to five 5 feet in length if a separate parking area is p_ovded
                                                                                                        r_
      that accommodates a minimum of one( 1) vehicle parking space for each unit with a driveway less than
      22 feet in length If reduced driveway lengths are approved the building setback from the shared
      driveway may be reduced to match the individual driveway length.
     Each dwelling unit gaining access via a shared drivewav shall have pedestrian access connected to a
L,__,_„___
      public or private street via a minimum five( 5) foot wide pedestrian accessway. The pedestrian accessway
      shall be physically separated from vehicular traffic and dwelling units by at least five( 5) feet shall be
      adequately illuminated for safety, and meet City design standards.
       A minimum five f5) foot landscape buffer shall be required between the perimeter property lines of the
M,,,._..,.._
      project and pedestrian accessways and vehicle driving surfaces.
N     Sufficient snow storage areas shall be provided on- site.

O.    The shared driveway shall be designed in accordance with City driveway design and en g in_,_
                                                                                               Bering
      standards.


      The shared driveway shall comply with all other city standards__including fire and emergency access, and
      utility_provisions.



The following graphic is keyed to illustrate select standards above. In cases where there are conflicts between
the graphic and the text, the text shall govern.




City of Taylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                           177
           Exhibit A
                                                           Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                             Chapter 13. 21 Subdivision Design Standards

                                                                   13. 21. 120 Private LaneShared Driveway




                                               L




                                                   A   (
                                                                    K

                                                                                       N

       h


                                                                                         J


                                                                                       r .




                        Public/ Private Street




City of Taylorsville, LIT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                178
           Exhibit A
                                                                                                                     Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                                                       Chapter 13. 21 Subdivision Design Standards
                                                                                                                                 13. 21. 130 BUFFERING ALONG STREETS:



            9    AppFeved PFiVate laReS t                          (
                                                                       2) I   t
                                                                                                  m fnr access to resident' ol rWelling StrUG41rPSshall
                 haV@ a 4NQ-Rt' fiVe f0gt( 25') right 4 Way and a twenty f99t( 20') MiRiMHm width paved s; l- rf; CP
            9.   Private! aR@S CaRROt
                                                                                  th      t   (
                                                                                                   2) residential dWE?I! iRgr

                                                                              d           t   fnr fro nr fro rescue operations
                 access ;            i
                                         d-ths wheretheyare               ,


            ll. ThE?City @Rg4R@@r and UFA shall h; wa the authority to require rnere than eRe access rLi4ad h; s; pd
                 C1'   -.     t'                         cghpic. f;;ctArc              rhat        la   I' r„'   t
                                   c CORdit; GRS, or




                                           dth     d     1                        hAll he maintained at SII tim


                            tor-. nd storm dr       in       rro

                                                                                                                         final
           44-.a. wheReVeF                 a S61bdiViSIGR      49 apprGVE?d with a PFiVat@ ! aR@, the                                       PR Plat Shall iRGI1

                 a stateMeRt that AO City MaiRt@AaAre iS prAllidiQd An thp private lane.( 9rd. 12 15,: 7 11-

13.        013. 21. 130                           BUFFERING ALONG STREETS:

Residential developments shall not permit motor vehicle access directly onto an arterial, major collector, or
minor collector street or roadway from individual residential lots. No new residential developments shall be
permitted within the city which abut an arterial without requiring improvements along the entire length of the
development as it abuts the arterial street. The following standards shall apply:
A.    The planning commission may require a barrier wall six feet( 6) in height( measured from the highest
      elevation on either side of the wall). Where soil retention is required, walls may be up to eight feet( 8') in
      height( retaining wall and barrier wall combined). Wall design and coloration shall be block, brick, or
      concrete. Concrete strips placed at the base of the fence shall be required to eliminate gaps between
      walls and sidewalks.


B.    Curb, gutter, and sidewalk shall be designed to specifications approved by the city engineer.
C.    A landscaped buffer between the sidewalk and street curb shall be installed according to city standards.
      In order to facilitate the planting of street trees, an eight foot( 8') park strip and five foot( 5') sidewalk is
      the standard requirement. Reduced park strip and sidewalk width may be approved based upon the size,
      scale, and nature of the project, and the type of existing improvements on adjacent properties. However,
      a ten foot( 10') cross section( 5 foot park strip, 5 foot sidewalk) is a minimum and may necessitate tree
      planting behind the sidewalk.
D.    Sprinkling system sufficient to maintain landscaping in all buffer areas shall be approved by the director.
E.    An additional landscaped buffer, including sprinkling and water connections, may be required by the
      planning commission between the sidewalk and barrier wall where it is impractical for the barrier wall to
      abut the sidewalk. The specific width of the buffer and landscaping specifications shall be determined by
      the planning commission upon recommendation by the director at the time of subdivision review.
F.    Provisions or plans for perpetual maintenance shall be submitted with the landscape design.( Ord. 12- 15,
      7- 11- 2012)



13.
E»         013. 21. 140                           PROTECTION STRIPS:

Reserve or protection strips controlling access to streets shall be prohibited.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)

     14^13. 21. 150
1-3.2:                                            BLOCK LENGTH:

A.    The lengths, width, and shapes of blocks shall be determined by the following:
      1.    Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs of the type of use contemplated.
      2.    Zoning requirements as to lot size and dimensions.


City of Taylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                                                             179
                  Exhibit A
                                                                                   Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                     Chapter 13. 21 Subdivision Design Standards
                                                                                              13. 21. 160 BRIDGES, CULVERTS, ETC.:



            3.    Needs for convenient access, circulation, control, and safety of street traffic.
            4.    Limitations and opportunities of topography.
B.          Block lengths shall not exceed eight hundred feet( 800').

C.          Pedestrian crosswalks shall be required where deemed essential to provide circulation or access to
            churches, schools, playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation, and other community facilities in
            accordance with city standards.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)

     2.'
                  013. 21. 160            BRIDGES, CULVERTS, ETC.:

The developer/ subdivider shall pay all costs of designing, constructing or installing any bridge, pipe, culvert, or
other structure required by the city to provide access to or cover any ditch, canal, jurisdictional wetlands, etc.,
within the subdivision or adjacent thereto.

Automotive bridges/ culverts shall be designed to accommodate automotive and safe pedestrian traffic.( Ord.
12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)



13.'             w13.21. 170             WALKWAYS AND TRAILS:
A.          Determination: Walkways with a width of six( 6) to ten feet( 10') may be required within a subdivision.
            This will be determined on a case by case basis after review by city staff.
B.          Dedicated Parcels: The developer may be required to dedicate a sufficient amount of property to be used
            exclusively as a pedestrian access walkway. Such parcels to be dedicated shall be located in a position
            within the development as determined by the planning commission. The parcel shall also be of a size
            large enough to allow for such a walkway, such size to be determined by the planning commission.
C.          Improvements: The developer may be required to install upon the walkway such improvements as
            determined by the planning commission and the city engineer. All such improvements shall be erected
            and constructed in accordance with standards as may be established by the planning commission and
            city engineer.

D.          Pedestrian And Bicycle Paths: Where appropriate, the internal circulation system shall provide pedestrian
            and bicycle paths which may be physically separated from vehicular traffic to serve residential,
            nonresidential, and recreational facilities in or adjacent to the development. The planning commission
            may require connections to regional trail systems, activity centers, pedestrian and/ or bicycle overpasses,
            underpasses, or traffic signalization in the vicinity of schools, playgrounds, parks, shopping areas, or
            other uses that will receive considerable pedestrian and/ or recreational trails use from the development.
             Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)



13          17013. 21. 180
           21                            SURVEY MONUMENTS:

Survey monuments shall be indicated on the final plat. A permit and approval from the Salt Lake County
surveyor' s office for the installation of survey monuments must be obtained prior to the setting of any survey
monuments and before any subdivision improvements are accepted.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)


13.'             8013. 21. 190            EASEMENTS:
A.          Easements for utilities and drainage shall be provided where necessary as determined by various public
            utility agencies, and the city engineer.
B.          Easements for surface water runoff drainage, canals, irrigation ditches, waterways, clear vision areas, and
            rights of way within the subdivision and across adjoining property may be required by the city when
            necessary to properly serve the subdivision or protect its citizens.
            1.    Open ditches shall not be allowed within or adjoining a subdivision. The developer/ subdivider shall
                  work with ditch irrigation companies and the city engineer as to:



City of Taylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                        180
                Exhibit A
                                                                               Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                  Chapter 13. 21 Subdivision Design Standards
                                                                                                   13. 21. 200 PUBLIC UTILITIES:




                a.   Methods of covering, realigning, or eliminating ditches, pipes, or canals within or adjoining the
                     subdivision.

                b.   The size of pipe and culverts required.
                c.   The responsibility for the periodic inspection, cleaning, and maintenance of such ditches, pipes,
                     and culverts shall be reviewed by the city engineer. In cases where ditches cross public roads or
                     proposed public roads, specifications and grades for pipe or culvert must be approved by the
                     city engineer in accordance with the city' s specifications.
       2.       The developer/ subdivider may be required to install a six foot( 6), nonclimbable fence or its
                equivalent along all open ditches, canals, waterways, open reservoirs or other bodies of water,
                railroad rights of way, and other such features of a potentially hazardous nature, on or contiguous
                to the property being subdivided as determined by the planning commission.
       3.       After installation and acceptance by the city, individual property owners are responsible for
                maintenance of fences or portions of fences erected upon their property and shall hold the city
                harmless for any and all defects of workmanship, maintenance, repair, and liability arising from the
                erection or intended use of said fence.

C.     Easements for public trails shall be provided where necessary as determined by applicable public
       agencies, including the Salt Lake County parks and recreation department and the U. S. forest service.
        Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)



13.'
n-          ;   013. 21. 200           PUBLIC UTILITIES:
A.     The developer shall be responsible for the installation of service lines prior to street paving.
B.     All utilities which will serve the parcel being subdivided shall be buried beneath the surface of the ground
       and shall be located within the easements provided for such use or within the streets at a location to be
       determined by the city.
C.     All utility structures shall be included as part of the construction drawings submitted with the final plat.
D.     There shall be no aboveground utility structures placed in a right of way but may be placed out of the
       public right of way in a public utility easement as approved by the city engineer.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)

 x. 013. 21. 210                       STREET LIGHTING:
A.     The developer shall follow all applicable requirements for the installation of streetlights and all
       streetlights shall be placed as approved by the director. Such items to be approved include appropriate
       distance, alternating sides of street, location upon the property, streetlight type, height, and illumination
       intensity as determined by the city' s specifications.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)

                013. 21. 220            LOTS:
A.     Every parcel of land created by a subdivision shall comply with the minimum lot size requirements of this
       code and shall be platted as part of a subdivision. No parcel of land shall be created or left unplatted
       which is either undevelopable or serves merely as a nuisance or lot remnant.
B.     Except as may be otherwise provided in this development code, all lots shall have the required frontage
       upon a dedicated and improved street. Exceptions may include the following:
       1.       Residential building lots that do not have frontage upon a public street shall obtain an exception
                from the planning commission as part of the preliminary review process.
       2.       Commercial building lots within a recorded subdivision are exempt from this requirement. They
                may be developed without direct frontage upon a public street.
C.     Where a canal or exclusive utility easement abuts a subdivision, the area or portion of the canal which is
       located in the lot(s) shall not be included in the computation of total lot size nor side or rear yard
       setbacks for purposes of determining compliance with the development code.


City of Taylorsville, LIT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                       181
            Exhibit A
                                                                               Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                  Chapter 13. 21 Subdivision Design Standards
                                                                                                         13. 21. 230 FLAG LOTS:



 D.    All lot corners, points of curvature, tangency, and bearing changes shall be marked with permanent
       metal stakes approved by the city. The front corners of the lot shall be marked as per the city standards.
 E.    Double frontage and reverse frontage lots shall be avoided except where essential to provide separation
       of residential development from traffic arteries or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and
       orientation.


 F.    Where possible, side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles to street lines.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)

11.'-2;: 213.21. 230                 FLAG LOTS:

In order to encourage the more efficient use of land, flag, or L- shaped lots may be allowed as an exception( a
permitted use within the sensitive area overlay district) subject to the following conditions:
A.     A flag or L- shaped lot shall be comprised of a staff portion contiguous with the flag portion thereof.
 B.    The staff portion of said lot shall front on and be contiguous to a dedicated public street or private street.

       The minimum width of the staff portion of a flag lot shall be twenty feet( 20% and the maximum length
       shall be two hundred twenty feet( 220') unless otherwise approved by the planning commission upon
       recommendation of the UFA.

C.     A flag lot shall not gain access via an easement on an adjacent property.
 D.    No building or construction, except for driveways, shall be allowed on the staff portion of said lot unless
       the minimum width thereof is the same or greater than the minimum width for a lot as allowed in the
       underlying zone( excluding entrance features and streetlights).
 E.    The front side of the flag portion of said lots shall be deemed to be that side nearest to the dedicated
       public street or private street upon which the staff portion fronts, unless otherwise determined by staff
       on a case by case basis.
F.     The staff portion of said lots shall be deemed to end, and the flag portion of said lots shall be deemed to
       commence at the extension of the front lot line.

G.     The square footage located in the flag portion of said lot, which shall be exclusive of the square footage
       located in the staff portion of said lot, shall be the same or greater than the minimum square footage as
       required in the underlying zone, but in no instance shall be less than eight thousand( 8, 000) square feet.
H.     The front, side, and rear yard requirements of the flag portion of said lots shall be the same as is
       required in the underlying zone.
I.     No more than two( 2) flag lots can be served by the staff portion.
J.     All flag lots in the development shall be approved by the planning commission.
 K.    The maximum number of flag lots in the subdivision shall be not more than twenty percent( 20%) of the

       total number of lots within the subdivision unless otherwise approved by the planning commission.
 L.    The approved building envelope shall be illustrated upon the final plat.
 M.    Below is an example of a flag lot and is included herein to illustrate the concept of a flag or L- shaped lot.
       N.         A duplex, twin home, or any other multi-family dwelling shall not be located on a flag lot.

                               FIGURE 1 FLAG LOT MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS




 City of Taylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
 Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                     182
             Exhibit A
                                                                            Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                 Chapter 13. 22 Manufactured Home Parks
                                                                                                13. 21. 240 SEISMIC AREAS:




                                                                   r




                                                                                 1i




        Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)



13.'.
 x-          013. 21. 240              SEISMIC AREAS:

Any subdivision or lot on or adjacent to a seismic area shall comply with provisions of the sensitive area overlay
zone.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)



13.'       4013. 21. 250               EXCEPTIONS:

Any exception authorized by the planning commission as allowed in this chapter shall be shown on the final
plat, and the reasons for such exception shall be entered in writing in the minutes of the planning commission
meeting.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)


Chapter 13. 22                      Manufactured Home Parks

13. 22. 010         PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to:

A.      Permit variety and flexibility in land development for residential purposes by allowing the use of
        manufactured homes in certain districts within the city.
B.      Assure that manufactured home development will be of such character as to promote the objectives and

        purposes of this code, to protect the integrity and characteristics of the zone districts contiguous to those
        in which manufactured home parks are located, and protect other use values contiguous to or near
        manufactured home parks.

C.      Encourage manufactured home parks to be located adjacent to or in close proximity to an arterial or
        collector street.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)




City of Taylorsville, LIT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                 183
                Exhibit A
                                                                               Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                               Chapter 13. 36 Definitions
                                                                                               13. 36. 130" L" DEFINITIONS:




13. 36. 130               " L" DEFINITIONS:

LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT
A person who holds a certificate to practice landscape architecture in the State of Utah.

LANDSCAPE DESIGNER

A person who has been certified by the Utah Nursery and Landscape Association to prepare landscape plans or
as otherwise approved by the Public Utilities Department.

LANDSCAPE EDUCATION PACKAGE

A package of documents that is intended to inform and educate water users in the City about water efficient
landscapes. The package includes the principles of water efficient landscape design, a listing of water
conserving plants, a listing of certified landscape designers, landscape architects, certified irrigation designers,
certified irrigation contractors, an information packet about various area demonstration projects, city's water
rates, billing format for water use, and the economics of installing and maintaining a water efficient landscape.

LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION AUDITOR

A person who has been certified by the Irrigation Association to conduct a landscape irrigation audit or as
otherwise approved by the public utilities department.

LANDSCAPE PLAN

A plan showing the proposed location, type and size of all trees, shrubs and ground covers to be planted on the
site as well as a complete water efficient irrigation system plan.

LANDSCAPE PLAN DOCUMENTATION PACKAGE

The preparation of graphic and written criteria, specifications, and detailed plans to arrange and modify the
effects of natural features such as plantings, ground and water forms, circulation, walks, and other features to
comply with the provisions of this title. The landscape plan documentation package shall include a project data
sheet, a planting plan, an irrigation plan, a grading plan, a soils report, a landscape water allowance, and an
irrigation schedule.

LANDSCAPE WATER ALLOWANCE
For design purposes, the upper limit of annual applied water for the established landscaped area. It is based
upon the local reference evapotranspiration rate, the ET adjustment factor, and the size of the landscaped area.

LANDSCAPED ZONE

A portion of the landscaped area having plants with similar water needs, areas with similar microclimate, i. e.,
slope, exposure, wind, etc., and soil conditions and areas that will be similarly irrigated. A landscape zone can
be served by one irrigation valve or a set of valves with the same schedule.

LANDSCAPING

Any combination of living plants such as trees, shrubs, vines, ground covers, flowers, turf or ornamental grass;
natural features such as rock, stone, or bark chips; and structural features, including, but not limited to,
fountains, reflecting pools, outdoor artwork, screen walls, fences, or benches.
LANDSCAPING, DRY
The finishing and adornment of yard areas solely by use of rocks, fountains, lanterns, benches, decorative
paving, etc., and not including growing or planted materials.

LANE, PRIVATE
                                                                                              street,

or two
         171   lets   n    s   less than Q--
                                           RP-   fifty feet( 159') in IeRgth




City of Taylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                  365
            Exhibit A
                                                                                Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                                    Chapter 13. 36 Definitions
                                                                                                    13. 36. 200" S" DEFINITIONS



RESOURCE FAMILY HOME
See definition of Human Services Programs Or Facilities.

REST HOME

See definition of Nursing Home.

RESTAURANT

An eating establishment in which food is prepared for either on or off premises consumption, with service
being provided in a traditional sit down restaurant with indoor or outdoor seating style or served from a
counter. This definition also includes specialty food stores such as ice cream parlors or delicatessens, but does
not include drive- in or drive- up window service.

RESTAURANT, DRIVE- IN/ DRIVE- UP WINDOW

An eating establishment in which food is prepared and served. May include facilities for indoor seating, takeout,
drive- up window service, or outside service provided by employees to customers in vehicles.
RETAIL SALES AND SERVICES

A commercial enterprise that provides goods and/ or services directly to the consumer where such goods are
available for immediate purchase and removal from the premises by the purchaser. This also includes retail
establishments engaged in selling goods or merchandise to the general public as well as to other retailers,
contractors, or businesses, and rendering services incidental to the sale of such goods. Retail establishments
could also involve a high volume of sales of related and/ or unrelated products in a warehouse setting and may
include membership warehouse clubs( big box retail).

RETAINING WALL
A structure or combination of natural elements constructed to hold back or support the adjacent slope, earthen
berm or otherwise create a differential in heights between two( 2) or more land masses.

RIGHT OF WAY

The portion of roadway dedicated to the purpose of conveying vehicle and pedestrian traffic, and other public
use. This area shall include, but not be limited to, all areas of pavement and sidewalk between opposing
property lines.

ROADWAY

That portion of a street improved, designed, or ordinarily used for vehicular travel.

RUNOFF

Irrigation water that is not absorbed by the soil or landscape area to which it is applied and that flows onto
other areas.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012; amd. Ord. 12- 28, 10- 17- 2012; Ord. 12- 29, 10- 17- 2012; Ord. 18- 26, 10- 17-
2018)



13. 36. 200       " S" DEFINITIONS

SARA TITLE III

The Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act section found in 40 CFR 300- 302, pertaining to emergency
response and right to know.

SCHOOL

Any building( public or private) used primarily for the general education of minors.

SCHOOL, CHARTER

A public school established by a contract with a school district governing board, the State Board of Education,
or the State Board for Charter Schools pursuant to State law.




City of Taylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                      381
            Exhibit A
                                                                              Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                                 Chapter 13. 36 Definitions
                                                                                                 13. 36. 200" S" DEFINITIONS



SCHOOL, COMMERCIAL

A school established to provide for the teaching of vocational, industrial, clerical, managerial, artistic skills, or
similar skills. This definition applies to schools that are owned and operated privately for profit and that do not
offer a complete educational curriculum, e.g., beauty school, modeling school.

SCHOOL, COMMERCIAL( LOW IMPACT)

Those commercial schools which are artistic in nature and which have a relatively low impact on surrounding
uses because they are conducted indoors; have a limited number of students; and do not require a large
number of parking spaces because of the age of the students. Such schools generally include smaller scale
dance schools, music lessons, martial arts schools, gymnastics schools and similar uses.


SCHOOL, PRIVATE OR QUASI- PUBLIC

A school operated by a private or quasi- public organization, or individual, which has a curriculum similar to that
provided in any public school in the State of Utah, except that such curriculum may include religious instruction.
A private school may be a profit making or nonprofit organization. A private school may also include laboratory
and shop instruction with the use of demonstration vehicles, products or models incidental to said instruction;
but shall not include the repair, maintenance and manufacture of vehicles, goods or merchandise, and shall not
provide direct services, other than instruction to the general public.( Does not include commercial schools.)

SCHOOLS, PUBLIC

An educational facility operated by a school district or other public agency of the State of Utah.

SCULPTURE PARK

A facility for the display for viewing and/ or sale of sculptures. Facility may include outdoor display. Such facility
typically includes a large expanse of landscaped green space containing an array of gardens, fountains, and
sculptural artworks.



SEARCHLIGHT

A temporary advertising device which is a stationary or revolving light which flashes or projects illumination,
single color or multicolored, in any manner which is intended to attract or divert attention.

SECONDARY CONTAINMENT( Drinking Water Source Protection Ordinance)
Any system that is used to provide release detection and release prevention, such as trays under containers,
floor curbing or other systems designed to hold materials or liquids that may discharge from containers
holding regulated substances. Examples include a double walled tank, a double walled integral piping system,
or a single walled tank or integral piping system that is protected by an enclosed concrete vault, liner, or an
impervious containment area.


SECONDHAND GOODS STORE

Any business which is engaged in the purchase, barter, exchange, or sale of any secondhand merchandise or
which deals in secondhand goods, excluding businesses dealing in used motor vehicles and trailers and pawn
shops. Typical businesses in this definition are thrift stores, used clothing stores, etc.

SECURE CORRECTIONAL FACILITY

See definition of correctional facility.

SECURE DETENTION

See definition of correctional facility.

SECURE FACILITY

See definition of correctional facility.

SECURE TREATMENT
See definition of human services programs or facilities.




City of Taylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                  382
              Exhibit A
                                                                             Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                                   Chapter 13. 36 Definitions
                                                                                                   13. 36. 200" S" DEFINITIONS



SEMITRAILER

Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property with another and separate motor vehicle so
that in operation a part of its own weight or that of its load, or both, rests upon and is carried by another
vehicle.



SENIOR APARTMENT UNITS

Single-family dwelling units within a single building for persons age fifty five( 55) and older.
SENSITIVE AREA
An area of land which contains environmental or potential geological hazards, and which, if altered, may cause
damage to the environment.


SEPTIC HOLDING TANK( Drinking Water Source Protection Ordinance)
A watertight receptacle, used to contain septic waste. The contents of which are extilated and disposed of at a
waste disposal facility.

SEPTIC TANK SYSTEM( Drinking Water Source Protection Ordinance)
A generally watertight receptacle connected to a drainfield that allows liquid from the tank to enter the soil. The
system is constructed to promote separation of solid and liquid components of domestic wastewater, to
provide decomposition of organic matter, to store solids, and to allow clarified liquid to discharge for further
treatment and disposal in a soil absorption system.

SETBACK

The setback for all structures is the shortest distance between the property line and the building or any portion
thereof excluding the following:
    A.     Window awnings and unenclosed front entry and steps not protruding more than five feet( 5') into the
           setback area.


    B.     Uncovered patios.

    C.     Decks and balconies not greater than two feet( 2') in height from grade, and not less than four feet( 4')
           from the rear property line and eight feet( 8') from the side property line.
    D.     Decks and balconies not greater than eight feet( 8') above grade and not less than ten feet( 10') from
           the rear lot line.

    E.     Chimney and roof overhangs protruding no greater than two feet( 2') into the setback area.

SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS

Adult businesses, nude entertainment businesses, seminude dancing bars, outcall services, and nude and
seminude dancing agencies as defined in title 5, chapter 5.82 of the Taylorsville Code.

SHARED DRIVEWAY

A method of providing ingress or egress to two or more single-family attached or detached dwelling units
within an access easement.


SHELTER

See definition of correctional facility.

SHELTERED WORKSHOP

A nonresidential facility providing supervised educational or vocational training facility for persons with a
disability.

SHOPPING CENTER

An area or group of commercial or mixed- use structures built on a site that is planned, developed, managed
and owned by a single entity as a unified and contiguous operating unit.


City of Taylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                     383
           Exhibit B


Taylorsville City Council Minutes
May 19, 2021
Page 1




                                     Clickfor Audio Recording gI Meering


                                         City of Taylorsville
                                    CITY COUNCIL MEETING
                                                 Minutes


                                       Wednesday, May 19, 2021
                                           Council Chambers
                             2600 West Taylorsville Blvd., Room No. 140
                                       Taylorsville, Utah 84129




BRIEFING SESSION


Attendance-


Mayor:


Kristie Overson


Council Members:                                  City Staff:

Council Chair Curt Cochran                        John Taylor, City Administrator
Vice- Chair Anna Barbieri                         Scott Harrington, Asst. City Admin/C. F.O.
Councilmember Ernest Burgess                      Jamie Brooks. City Recorder
Councilmember Meredith Harker                     Brady Cottam, Taylorsville Police Chief
                                                  Tracy Cowdell. City Attorney
                                                  Kristy Heineman, Council Coordinator
                                                  Kim Horiuchi. Communications Director

                                                  Jim Spung, Senior Planner
                                                  Ben White, City Engineer

Others: Jay Ziolkowski

Excused:    Councilmember Armstrong

BRIEFING SESSION


Chair Cochran conducted the briefing session, which convened at 6: 00 p.m. A roll call was
conducted wherein all councilmembers were present except for Councilmember Armstrong who
was excused.
           Exhibit B


Taylorsville City Council Minutes
May 19, 2021
Page 2




1.       Review Agenda


Chair Cochran reviewed the agenda for the regular City Council Meeting.

Councilmember Harker indicated she had a few items for subsequent consideration.         The Parks

and Recreation Committee would be starting work at Labrum Park the following Saturday morning
and would welcome volunteers.  She had recently taken her )   grade class on a field trip to the
historic museum, and it looked amazing. It had been clear to her that the volunteers there had been
working very hard. She reminded the Council that on June 24`h after the Taylorsville Symphony
played, she hoped councilmembers could make themselves available to assist in passing out 1. 000
mini cakes from Nothing Bundt cakes. in celebration of the City' s 25`' birthday.

Councilmember Barbieri wondered when it would be appropriate to discuss the need for the
funding of a wall to be placed along 2700 West. City Administrator John Taylor responded that
during the budget presentation that evening would be the ideal time. Chair Cochran indicated he
had been given an estimate of about$ 4 million for roughly '/ 4 mile of wall.

Councilmember Burgess stated that the Green Committee needed more volunteers to help with the
                          190'.
cleanup event on. lune            Councilmember Harker provided him with the contact information of
Serena Anderson who was involved with a group looking for volunteer opportunities.

Councilmember Burgess inquired about the tall weeds on the south side of the new Mid Valley
Performing Arts Center. Mayor Overson explained that was native grass and she asked that he let
her know if he received any complaints.

Councilmember Harker asked for more details regarding a proposed photo booth at Taylorsville
Dayzz which City Council Coordinator Kris Heineman then provided.

There was some discussion about the fact that the agenda for the RDA meeting later in the evening
referenced the 2020- 2021 budget. It was determined that was a typographical error and that it was
the 2021- 2022 budget that would be discussed. it was later confirmed that the notice for the public
hearing contained the correct information.

2.       Adjourn


Chair Cochran declared the briefing session adjourned at 6: 21 p. m.


REGULAR MEETING
                Exhibit B


Taylorsville City Council Minutes
May 19. 2021
Page 3




Attendance-
 ttendance-


Mayor:
N1 ay o r:

Kristie Overson


Council Members:                                Citv Staff:


Council Chair Curt Cochran                      John Taylor, City Administrator
Vice- Chair Anna Barbieri                       Scott Harrington, Asst. City Admin/ CFO( Electronic)
Councilmember Ernest Burgess                    Jean Ashby, Exec. Asst/ RDA Secretary
Councilmember Meredith Harker                   Jamie Brooks, City Recorder
                                                Brady Cottam. Taylorsville Police Chief
                                                Tracy Cowdell, City Attorney
                                                Wayne Harper, Econ/ Comm. Dev Director
                                                Kristy Heineman, Council Coordinator
                                                Kim Horiuchi, Communications Director
                                                Richard Rich, Unified Fire Authority Captain

Others:         Duane Anjeweirden. Lisa Butterfield, John E. Gidney, John Hadlock. Lynn Handy.
Merryim Loose. Steve McCutcheoti, Marc McElreath, Savannah Medica, Bret Nielsen, Emma
Powers. Don Quigley, Maryn Seaman. Brandon Sorensen, Teresa Thornberg, and Madeline Van
Wagenen.


1.         WELCOME, INTRODUCTION AND PRELIMINARY MATTERS


Chair Curt Cochran called the meeting to order at 6: 310 p.m. and welcomed those in attendance.

             1. 1   Opening Ceremonies— Pledge and Reverence— ) iurth( btutcil         ( Opening
           Ceremonies for June 2, 2021, to be arranged bN Councilmember Harker)


 10 Chair Cochran invited Maryn Seaman to step forward and lead the Pledge of Allegiance.
Brandon Sorensen then introduced himself as the Youth Council Chair and explained some of the
community service projects the Youth Council was typically involved in.

Mr. Sorensen recognized the high school seniors who would soon be graduating.

             1. 2   Mayor' s Report


 10 Mayor Overson explained that there had been several recent ribbon-cuttings, one of which
was      for a new 7- 11.   Another new entity in Taylorsville   was   Synergy Family Services which
             Exhibit B


Taylorsville City Council Minutes
May 19, 2021
Page 4




assisted   families with a variety of services and supports.       She described it as a very ftln family
event.




The Mid-Valley Performing. Arts Center had recently invited employees and elected officials to
attend some " test' events as they prepared        for their grand opening.    She had been delighted to
attend performances of several local groups and said it was clear that Taylorsville was on the move
and great things were happening.

Mayor Overson was very happy to recognize the Youth Council seniors. She also expressed her
appreciation to Youth Council Coordinator Kris Heineman who she described as the Youth
Council' s" fearless leader."


The mayor then mentioned that she had recently visited the Taylorsville Senior Center now that it
had re- opened following COVID.           As restrictions continued to be lifted. it was exciting to see the
seniors    returning to action.     Salt Lake County Aging and Adult Services had iPads available to
lend to anyone 60+ to allow them to participate in virtual programing.

The mayor explained that the City had recently held a less formal quarterly staff meeting outside
on   the lawn.     Chris Bown, Taylorsville' s new justice court judge addressed the group and
Taylorsville Police Deputy Chief Todd Gray introduced some of the recently hired Taylorsville
Police employees.


John Hiskey was busy with the current special legislative session and was keeping the Council and
Administration updated regarding various pieces of legislation. Mayor Overson thanked the City
Council for their support and for their understanding of how important it was to have good
relationships with their legislators.


Regarding the upcoming budget discussion. the mayor appreciated that the Council had been
reviewing it very critically. She wished to personally thank Scott Harrington for his hard work
preparing it, particularly since the addition of a police department had made a significant impact
to the budget for the upcoming year.

She appreciated hearing from Councilmember Burgess regarding the concerns of some of his
constituents. She enjoyed meeting with citizens and hoped they knew they were always welcome
to reach out to her and get answers to their questions.


                  1. 2. 1 Mayor Overson explained that the Skatepark presentation had been postponed
for a couple of weeks.


           1. 3   Citizen Comments
                Exhibit B


Taylorsville City Council Minutes
May 19, 2021
Page 5




 19 There were no citizen comments.

2.       APPOINTMENTS


There were no appointments.


3.       REPORTS


         3. 1        Youth Council Senior Recognition


 IR Eris Heineman and Mayor Overson stepped to the podium and Ms. Heineman explained to
the family of the Youth Council members how impressed she and the mayor were with the young
men   and       women   involved in the Youth Council                      program.   She then introduced each of the
graduating seniors and read             a   brief biography           of each:    Savannah Medico. Merryim Loose.
Madeline Van Wagenen.


         3. 2        TaYlorsrille Police Department update


 1U Jay Ziolkowski stated that the new Taylorsville Police Department would become operational
in a mere five weeks. The TVPD was ahead of schedule regarding their original proposed timeline.
although        there were still     several    tasks    left   to accomplish.        His plan was to soon send the
councilmembers an updated index and a very detailed pdf file with all the policies themselves.
Any councilmember was welcome to reach out to either him or Chief Cottam with specific
questions on any policy prior to the time when the Council would be asked to fornially adopt the
policy manual.


The CAD transition project was moving forward which was quite a monumental project. All ten
sergeants were now working for the city. Each had picked up the ball and were running with it—
it was a great team. The bulk of the police employees would come onboard June 14'".


The transfer and tracking of Unified Police assets would continue into late June. Twenty- four of
the 33 vehicles coming from Ken Garff were currently being branded and ten additional UPD
vehicles were anticipated the following Monday.

A swearing-in ceremony would take place at the Mid- Valley Performing Arts Center on June 21.
2021 at 6: 30 p.m. primarily for the officers and their families. The event would begin with a" meet
and greet" at 5: 30 p.m.

Councilmember Burgess              asked       for   a   brief explanation        about   the   Versaterm   project.   Mr.
Ziolkowski        explained   that    there    had been         a   call    from the legislature to   merge   dispatching
             Exhibit B


Taylorsville City Council Minutes
May 19, 2021
Pk,-,
  eG



operations within                  Taylorsville Police would use Versaterm from day one of
                     Salt Lake County.
operations although it would be about a year before all agencies in the County would be
transitioned to the single system.


7.       OTHER MATTERS


         7. 1    Resolution No. 21- 18 — A     Resolution of the City of Taylorsville approving an
         Interim Agreement for the Transfer of Assets to Taylorsville, reserving other issues— Jai,
         Ziolkowski


Mr. Ziolkowski explained that the transition team had been working for several months to identify
all the assets that should be considered city assets. A formal agreement was necessary to get the
transfer ball rolling and the UPD Board would vote on the same agreement the following morning.
There were three primary lists of assets: first was a list of vehicles, some of which would be
transferred to Taylorsville right away, with others trickling in over time. The second list of items
consisted of various    types of items ( computers, radio equipment, spikes.   body armor, etc.).   The
third list involved weaponry of various types which would be transferred from UPD to TVPD.
These items would all be ready as of July 1.   Other items would still need to he negotiated between
the two agencies after July- 1.

MOTION:          Councilmember Barbieri moved to approve Resolution No. 21- 18, approving
                 an Interim Agreement for the Transfer of Assets to Taylorsville, reserving
                 other issues. The motion was seconded by Councilmember Burgess.

Councilmember Harker                     Yes
Councilmember Barbieri                   Yes
Chair Cochran                            Yes
Councilmember Burgess                    Yes


The motion passed 4- 0


          3. 3   Senior Center Reporl


 IR Lisa Butterfield explained that she and her staff were thrilled to welcome back residents to
the Taylorsville   Senior Center. Various restrictions were lifted at different times and more and

more seniors were resuming their in- person participation in the different services available to them.
Many people had suffered quite a lot due to the isolation that came with COV1D- 19. The Center
was working with Valley Mental Health whose " Vital
                                                            Aging" program would soon resume,
providing counseling for those seniors who were dealing with loss, readjusting to society, etc. She
wished to express her appreciation to City staff for all their assistance during the pandemic as well
as   during their re- opening.
                 Exhibit B


Taylorsville City Council Minutes
May 19. 2021
Page 7




The " Virtual" Senior Center was still active, although the number of participants was certainly
declining.

          3.4      Budget Committee Report


         Lynn Handy introduced the other members of the budget committee and thanked them for
their participation. He introduced several other members of the committee who were present and
explained that the committee met monthly. They were responsible for reviewing monthly financial
statements, the audit report each year before it was presented to the city council and the proposed
annual    budget. The committee received other assignments periodically as well. He was pleased
that there was no property tax increase in the proposed budget which was great news because the
City was adding a new police department. He also acknowledged an increase in sales tax revenue,
despite the decrease that had been anticipated at the beginning of the pandemic.

Mr. Handy spoke about the importance of being involved in one' s ConIII Lill it\'      and thanked all

those gathered for their service and contributions.

4.        CONSENT AGENDA

          4. 1     Minutes— City Council Meeting of April 21,    2021

MOTION:            Councilmember Harker moved to approve the minutes of the April 21, 2021
                   City   Council   meeting;   as   presented.   The    motion   was    seconded   b%
                   Councilmember Barbieri.


Councilmember Harker                     Yes
Councilmember Barbieri                   Yes
Chair Cochran                            Yes
Councilmember Burgess                    Yes


The motion passed 4- 0


5.        PLANNING MATTERS


          5, 1 Ordinance. Vo. 21- 08 An Ordinance of the City of Taylorsville approving a Zoning
          Map Amendment from Single- Family Residential ( R- 1- 10) to Professional Office( PO) for
          0. 66 Acres of Property Located at 1633 West 6235 South— Jim Spung


         Jim Spung explained the zoning map amendment currently being proposed.            The owner
immediately west of the subject property wished to purchase the property to expand their parking
             Exhibit B


T'aylorsville City Council Minutes
May 19, 2021
Page 8




area.    The rezone request was consistent with current city policy.   Mr. Spung displayed the concept
development plan as well as some information regarding a future UDOT Redwood Road expansion
that was anticipated.



Councilmember Barbieri asked if the Redwood Recycling Center was attempting to expand. Mr.
Spung responded that the applicant was working with the Recycling Center to potentially do a
property line adjustment, primarily for access and some landscaping area. So, although the parcel
would     technically increase in size. they would not be expanding their operation. I lowever, they
could use their property as they saw fit as long as they complied with the code and ordinances.

Councilmember Barbieri seemed to recall that the Recycling Center had been given a special
zoning designation. Mr. Spung responded that the property was zoned as Industrial which would
not change with this ordinance. The proposal was only to rezone a ho undaiy, to Professional
Office.    So even if the parcel boundary changed, the zoning designation of the Recycling Center
would not.




Chair Cochran wished to clarifv that the zoning map amendment was on behalf of the property to
the west of the Recycling Center.

Chair Cochran invited the applicant to address the Council.      Daniel Waller explained that he was
part of the group purchasing the property in question. Mr. Waller explained that there were three
office buildings involved and they wished to give each other rights- of-way through the parking
area to have access to 6320 South. They had planned to buy the property but then learned that

they only had 66 feet of frontage, and the ordinance did not allow two driveways in the area. They
therefore had to approach the Recycling Center about getting access to 6200 South. Mr. Waller

explained that this action was a result of the fact that UDOT had shown them they were taking
most of their parking area.    He indicated they had no intention of building more offices. They
were merely interested in securing some space for parking and having increased access.

Chair Cochran and Mr. Cowdell discussed the fact that although the Council was not required to
hold a public hearing on this matter, it was often their practice to allow public comment. Chair
Cochran asked if there was anyone who wished to speak on the matter and there was no one who
indicated a desire to do so.


MOTION:           Councilmember Harker moved to adopt Ordinance No. 21- 08, approving a
                  Zoning Map Amendment from Single- Family Residential ( R- 1- 10) to
                  Professional Office( PO) for 0. 66 Acres of Property located at 1633 West 6235
                  South.      The motion was seconded by Councilmember Burgess.

Councilmember Barbieri                   Yes
Chair Cochran                            Yes
            Exhibit B


Taylorsville City Council Minutes
May 19, 2021
Page 9




Councilmember Burgess                     Yes
Councilmember Harker                      Yes


The motion passed 4- 0


         5.2      Ordinance No. 21- 09 An Ordinance of the City of Taylorsville approving Text
         Amendments to Taylorsville Municipal Code: Chapter 13. 21;             Section 13. 36. 130, and
         Section 13. 36. 200, related to Private Lanes and Shared Driveways–       Jim Spung

 IR Mr. Spung explained that although there was an applicant on this agenda item, staff had been
thinking about this very issue for quite some time.       The applicant had submitted some proposed
language for the ordinance, but staff felt the matter was more complex and was now submitting an
alternate text amendment to the City Council. Currently, the city required every dwelling unit to
have direct access to a public or private street— regardless of whether it was a single- family home
or a multi- family complex. However, there was currently no mechanism in the code to allow more
than two dwelling units to share the same driveway. Mr. Spung listed various requirements that

would be in place should the Council approve the ordinance as staff proposed it. He also indicated
that the ordinance would create a mechanism to allow a particular type of development, but any
proposal would still need to comply with the underlying zoning in place and go through the
subdivision process.




Councilmember Barbieri inquired about flag lots. Mr. Spung responded that a flag lot \ WUld need
to have direct access to a street.


Mr. Spung explained that four other rezone and general plan map amendment applications for this
type of development pattern were currently being processed         in the planning department.    He did
not feel this particular scenario was appropriate for every area of the city but pointed out that if the
ordinance was adopted,      it would apply to all of Taylorsville— not just this particular parcel.


Chair Cochran invited the applicant' s representative, Steve McCutcheon to address the Council.
Mr. McCutcheon explained that he was a land planner representing applicant Teresa Thornberg.
He appreciated that the Planning Commission had unanimously approved the application. He felt
the important thing was that the zoning text amendment go before the general pian map amendment
and rezoning. Ms. Thomberg intended to leave an existing house in place which faced 4700 South
and hoped to build six townhomes behind it.


Chair Cochran opened a public comment period. When no one expressed a desire to speak. the
comment period was closed.




Councilmember Barbieri felt when multiple residential units accessed a single driveway. it led to
problems.      It appeared that there would only be one parking stall per unit so she suspected parking
            Exhibit B


Taylorsville City Council Minutes
May 19, 2021
Page 10




would spill into adjacent neighborhoods which washer primary concern. Councilmember Harker
pointed out     that each unit also had a garage.    Chair Cochran felt home buyers would know the
parking limitations when they purchased the homes, although as the homes and their occupants
aged, children would gain driving privileges, potentially adding more vehicles to each family.
Councilmember Barbieri shared that whether or not it was legal, many individuals would purchase
townhomes to rent them out by the room, further increasing the number of vehicles attached to
each dwelling unit.

Mr. Taylor stated that was one of the bigger issues currently which would continue to worsen.
Today' s market was looking to maximize the number of housing units that could be placed on any
empty land. Taylorsville was in a unique position as it was already built out with single- family
homes. He felt there were ways to handle and develop density. You could take the available land
and put the maximum amount of density on it, or you could get more creative as was currently
happening with the vacant property at 5400 South Bangerter Highway. He understood that the
current proposal was to facilitate a couple of specific developments. However, doing so could
have unintended consequences since the new ordinance would apply to the entire city.

Councilmember Harker liked that the proposal was fairly conservative and was comfortable with
four units.


Mr. Spung reiterated that the ordinance would not address policy questions.          Those would be
addressed     in the event of a rezone request or a general plan map amendment. The city did not
currently have the proper tools in city code to allow townhome development. Staff recommended
approval as presented     by staff—not using the applicant' s language.

Wayne Harper, Economic/ Community Development Director. agreed with Mr. Taylor' s comment
that the decision currently before the city council could have both benefits and unintended
consequences for the future.


Don Quigley, a resident as well as a member of the planning commission wished to correct the
record    regarding    what   had been   described    as   a " unanimous"   recommendation from the
commission.  He explained that he had abstained from voting because he did not feel the
commission had adequate discussion on the matter, since it was after midnight by the time this
item was addressed. Therefore, he did not think the vote should be described as unanimous.

Councilmember Barbieri stated she was a big fan of developing the city' s vacant flag lots.     She
was not sure how the proposal would affect other areas of the city and would want to look harder
at the issue,   taking more time to examine potential ramifications.
              Exhibit B


Taylorsville City Council Minutes
Ma% 19. 3021
Paee I 1




Mr. Spung clarified that the 20- foot width for a shared driveway was a minimum— they could be
longer. Councilmember Barbieri felt it was unlikely that anyone would choose to make it larger
than the minimum required length.


MOTION:            Councilmember Barbieri moved to table Ordinance 21- 09 to allow staff time
                   for further study— specifically, to investigate how many areas of the city would
                   be affected by the ordinance.    The motion was seconded by Councilmember
                   Burgess.


Councilmember Burgess                     Yes
Councilmember Harker                          Yes
Councilmember Barbieri                    Yes
Chair Cochran                             Yes


The motion passed 4- 11


           5.3     Ordinance No. 21- 10 An Ordinance of the City of Taylorsville approving a Zoning
           Text Amendment to Section 13. 08. 020; Section 13. 23. 170; Section 13. 24. 080; Section
           13. 36.030; Section 13. 36.050 and Section 13. 36. 190 of the Taylorsville Land Development
           Code. related to Drive- Through Facilities– Jin: Spung


       Mr. Spung summarized the following changes proposed in Ordinance No. 21- 10:
           Permissions in the land use table would be updated
           Drive-throughs would be permitted in all commercial zoning districts
           Review by the Planning Commission would no longer be required for drive- through
           facilities
           There would no longer be a 250- foot distance requirement in residential zoning districts
           Drive-throughs would be required to comply with the minimum building setbacks of the
           underlying zoning district
           There would be updates to the minimum number of stacking spaces required. with the
           most dramatic change to restaurants, which would go from nine spaces to five spaces
           Language relating to queuing lane placement would be strengthened
           Standards limiting the number of allowable queuing lanes would be removed
           Language requiring the building to be built at the front setback line would be removed
           The definition for" Business or Financial Services" would be updated to remove
           reference to drive-up facilities
           A new definition for" Drive-through" would be created
           A new definition for" Restaurant' would be created

Chair Cochran opened the matter for public comment.
             Exhibit B


Taylorsville City Council Minutes
May 19, 2021
Page 12




Don Quigley returned to the podium and explained that he lived just east of Salt Lake Community
College. He stated that he struggled with eliminating the 250- foot setback.   He recalled hearing
from a resident on a previous situation who lived near a drive-through fast food restaurant and had
the menu memorized since he could hear people placing their orders from his nearby home.          He
did not feel that such blanket plans were helpful, and he did not believe that a 30- foot setback was
sufficient for a drive-through business.


Councilmember Harker explained that she was a huge fan of drive- through businesses and was in
favor of the proposed ordinance.


Councilmember Burgess appreciated that there was language in the code which would alloNN
enforcement if a drive-through business was emitting excessive noise levels.

MOTION:          Councilmember Barbieri moved to adopt Ordinance No. 21- 10, approving a
                 Zoning Map Amendment to Section 13. 08. 020; Section 13. 23. 170; Section
                 13. 24. 080; Section 13.36.030; Section 13. 36.050 and Section 13.36. 190 of the
                 Taylorsville Land Development Code, related to Drive- Through Facilities.
                 The motion was seconded by Councilmember Harker.

Chair Cochran                            Yes
Councilmember Barbieri                   Yes
Councilmember Harker                     Yes
Councilmember Burgess                    Yes


The motion passed 4- 0


6.        FINANCIAL MATTERS


          6. 1   Public Hearinz- To Receive public comment concerning the Tentative Budget for
          the City of Taylorsville for the 2021- 2022 Fiscal Year, as well as any proposed changes
          to the 2020- 2021   Fiscal Year Budget-   Scott Harrington


          Scott Harrington explained that the amendments to the FY2020- 2021           budget were
straightforward.    The amended version recognized $ 4. 5 million in revenue from the American
Recovery Act since it was likely the city would receive those funds prior to July 1. They would
arrivein the General fund but immediately be transferred to Fund 45 ( the capital fund). There
was also $ 13, 000 in rent from a home owned
                                                by the city and $ 180, 000 of intergovernmental
revenue in the   form of      reimbursement from Salt Lake County.
              Exhibit B


Taylorsville City Council Minutes
May 19, 2021
Page 13




Chair Cochran opened the public hearing for the FY2020- 2021 budget. There were no continents,
so the chair closed the public hearing fbr that budget year.

      6. 2         Resolution No. 21- 19-       A Resolution of the City of Taylorsville adopting the
      Final Budget for the Fiscal Year Beginning July 1, 2021, and ending June 30. 20-12) - Scott
      Harrington


 19 Regarding the FY2021- 2022 budget. Mr. Harrington highlighted the fact that city
administration     did not propose a tax increase.
                                             Initially he anticipated $ 9 million in funding from
the American Recovery Act, but that figure had since been reduced to $4. 5 million based on the
most recent guidance from the federal government. Additionally, he had fixed a typographical

error in the bank service charge line item for the justice court so that what was once $ 2, 600 was
now $ 26. 000.      He restored $ 50, 000 to the neighborhood services line item in public works in
exchange      for $ 10, 000 in   each   district for individual    council   projects.   With the new police
department came a new line item with all the details regarding that department.

Although Councilmember Armstrong was not currently present. he had asked that $ 100. 000 be
added to the police department' s budget to be used in the event of any unforeseen expenses. It had
not yet been added and Mr. Harrington left it to a majority of the council to decide. He believed
there was currently $204,000 in revenue over anticipated expenditures.

Councilmember Barbieri asked what the total police budget was, and Mr. Harrington responded
that it was$ 11. 262 million. So, an additional $ 100, 000 was roughly I% of the department' s total

budget. Mr. Taylor explained that Councilmember Armstrong was concerned about unanticipated
legal issues. Mr. Harrington wished to confirm that a majority of the council agreed that an
additional $ 100. 000     should be added to the police budget. Councilmember Barbieri said she was
comfortable with it and the others present agreed.


Councilmember Burgess asked the rest of the councilmembers ifthey would be willing to set aside
 60,000 for pickleball, since so many residents had expressed an interest in it.

Mr. Taylor pointed out that the monies traditionally set aside for individual councilmember
projects     typically   were   difficult to   spend.   He   recommended       putting that $ 50, 000 towards
pickleball.     if the council wished to budget $ 100, 000 for pickleball, staff would detennine how

many         they could get with it. Councilmember Barbieri requested clarification and Mr.
          courts

Taylor responded, "$ 100, 000 for police, $ 50.000 from excess revenues for pickleball as well as
the $ 50, 000 individual district funds for pickleball."          Councilmember Harker agreed that was a
great use of those individual funds.


Mayor Overson stated that if the city council set aside funding for pickleball. the city had a
professional staff who could        then determine the location that was most suitable.
           Exhibit B


Caylorsville City Council Minutes
May 19, 2021
Page 14




Mr. Taylor asked that the council add to the capital budget a bridge maintenance/ repair line item
of$ 60, 000    to   deal with the 4800 South 1300 West bridge.    Mr. Harrington then confirmed his
understanding of the city council' s wishes expressed thus far: he was to remove the$ 50.000 from
each council    district, add $ 100. 000 for unforeseen police expenses, $ 100. 00 for pickleball courts
and$ 60, 000 for bridge repair/maintenance.


Councilmember Harker asked the rest of the council if they would be willing to budget$ 8, 000 to
start the process of getting the museum on the historic register. The other councilmembers agreed.

Councilmember Barbieri wished to begin funding the wall on 2700 West.             It was estimated that
 500. 000 would get a quarter to half of one side. Councilmember Burgess indicated he did not
mind $ 500,000 but did not want to set aside any more until later in the year when revenue figures
were firmer. He also wished to confirm that the BRT wall had not been forgotten and Mr. Taylor
confirmed that was part of the BRT project budget.


Chair Cochran and Councilmember Harker both inquired if there were sufficient funds available
to cover$ 500, 000 for the 2700 West wall. Mr. Harrington responded it was available in the capital
projects fund.


Councilmember Harker wished to confirm that the council priorities were l) police department, 2)
pickleball courts. 3) the bridge repair, 4) 2700 West wall, and 5) museum.

Chair Cochran opened a public hearing for the FY2021- 2022 budget.             There was no one who
expressed interest in speaking and the Chair then closed the public hearing.

MOTION:             Chair Cochran moved to table Resolution 21- 19 so that staff could update the
                    final budget with the council' s stated amendments.     The motion was seconded
                    by Councilmember Burgess.

Councilmember Harker                      Yes
Councilmember Barbieri                    Yes
Chair Cochran                             Yes
Councilmember Burgess                     Yes


The motion passed 4- 0


        6. 3        Resolution No. 21- 20- A Resolution of the City of Taylorsville approving Year-
                    End Final Amendments to the 2020- 2021 Fiscal Year Budget— Scott Harrington

The council then voted on the FY20-21 budget Mr. Harrington had discussed earlier in the evening.
             Exhibit B


Taylorsville City Council Minutes
May 19, 2021
Page 15




MOTION:           Councilmember Harker moved to approve Resolution No. 21- 20, adopting the
                  final budget for the Fiscal Year ending July 1, 2021. The motion was seconded
                  by Councilmember Burgess

Councilmember Burgess                  Yes
Councilmember Harker                   Yes
Chair Cochran                          Yes
Councilmember Barbieri                 Yes


The motion passed 4- 0


8.        NEW ITEMS FOR SUBSEQUENT CONSIDERATION ( No Action)

          8. 1    Councilmember Burgess— nothing for subsequent consideration.


          8. 2    Councilmember Armstrong— nothing for subsequent consideration.


          8.3     Council Chair Cochran— volunteers were sought for some light landscaping work

          the following Saturday at Labrum Park; individual miniature Nothing Bundt cakes would
          be handed out following the Utah Symphony performance on Thursday. June 24 during the
          first night of Taylorsville Dayzz. The Green Committee was seeking volunteers to assist
          with Collection Day at Taylorsville High School on .lune 19, 2021.

          8.4     Councilmember Harker—nothing for subsequent consideration.


          8. 5    Councilmember Barbieri— nothing for subsequent consideration.


9.        NOTICE OF FUTURE PUBLIC MEETINGS( NEXT MEETING)


          9. 1    Planning Commission Work Session— Tuesday, May 25, 2021 — 6: 30 p. m.
          9. 2    Planning Commission Meeting— Tuesday, May 25, 2021 — 7: 00 p. m.
          9. 3    City Council Briefing Session— Wednesday, June 2, 2021 — 6: 00 p. m.
          9. 4    City Council Meeting— Wednesday, June 2, 2021 — 6: 30 p. m.
          9. 5    Planning Commission Work Session— Tuesday, June 8, 2021 — 6: 00 p. m.
          9. 6    Planning Commission Meeting— Tuesday, June 8, 2021 — 7: 00 p. m.
          9. 7    City Council Briefing Session— Wednesday June 16, 2021 — 6: 00 p. m.
          9. 8    City Council Meeting— Wednesday, June 16, 2021 — 6: 30 p. m.
          9. 9    Planning Commission Work Session — Tuesday, June 22, 2021 — 6: 30 p. m.
          9. 10   Planning Commission Meeting—Tuesday, June 22, 2021 — 7: 00 p. m.
            Exhibit B


Taylorsville City Council Minutes
May 19, 2021
Page 16




10.       CALENDAR OF UPCOMING EVENTS
          10. 1     Movie in the Park and Music by " DeNovo"— June 19, 2021:       Movie " School of
          Rock" at Taylorsville City Hall, movie begins at dusk

          10. 2     City Cleanup Event: Saturday, June 19, 2021, at 8: 00 a. m.— Noon at' l'aylorsville
          High School


          10. 3     Taylorsville Dajzz: June 24- 26, 2021

11.       CLOSED SESSION ( Conference Room 202)
           For the Purposew Described in Statute U.C..1. 52- 4- 205


No closed session was held.


12.       ADJOURNMENT


Chair Cochran declared the regular city council meeting adjourned at 9: 08 p.m. and a meeting of
the Redevelopment Agency Board convened shortly thereafter.



Jami              s, City Recorder
                                                                  s   v



Minutes approved: June 2. 2021
           Exhibit C

       Properties That May be Eligible for Shared Driveway
                                                              Current
           Address                     Current Land Use                   Lot Area( sgft)
                                                              Zoning
1054   W              4800      S   Single- Family Dwelling    R- 1- 10         372, 002

1421   W              6235      S   Single- Family Dwelling    R- 1- 10          50, 965

1560   W              4800      S   Single- Family Dwelling
1566   W              4800      S   Single- Family Dwelling
1572   W              4800      S   Single- Family Dwelling
1583   W              4800      S                   4- Plex     R- 2- 8          28, 314

1600   W              4800      S   Single- Family Dwelling
1628   W              4800      S   Single- Family Dwelling     R- 2- 8          24, 394

1960   W              6200      S            Undeveloped       R- 1- 10          30, 230

2272   W              6200      S            Undeveloped        R- 1- 8          13, 503

2860   W              5400      S   Single- Family Dwelling     RM- 6            24, 829

2880   W              5400      S   Single- Family Dwelling     RM- 6            24, 394

3397   W              4700      S             Commercial        RM- 8            37, 461

3399   W              4700      S   Single- Family Dwelling     RM- 8            72, 745

3759   W       Thunderbird    Way                   Church      R- 1- 8         304, 918

4649   S               1175    W    Single- Family Dwelling    R- 1- 10          44, 431

4748   S             Simper    Ln   Single- Family Dwelling     R- 1- 8          96, 703

4795   S              3600     W    Single- Family Dwelling     R- 1- 8          69, 696

4848   S              2200     W    Single- Family Dwelling    R- 1- 10          43, 560

4896   S              1250     W                    2- Plex    R- 1- 10          66, 646

4901   S              3600     W             Undeveloped        R- 1- 8          35, 719

4924   S              3200     W    Single- Family Dwelling     R- 1- 6          92, 782

4940   S              2200     W    Single- Family Dwelling    R- 1- 10          38, 333

5049   S              1250     W    Single- Family Dwelling    R- 1- 20          65, 340

5063   S              1250     W    Single- Family Dwelling    R- 1- 20          68, 824

5072   S              2200     W    Single- Family Dwelling    R- 1- 10          40, 075

5114   S              2200     W    Single- Family Dwelling    R- 1- 10          42, 688

5585   S              2700     W    Single- Family Dwelling    R- 1- 10         128, 066
            Exhibit C

       Properties That May be Eligible for Shared Driveway
                                                                  Current
            Address                       Current Land Use                    Lot Area( sgft)
                                                                  Zoning
6050    S                 1820    W    Single- Family Dwelling     R- 1- 10          55, 321

6330    S                 3200    W             Undeveloped         R- 1- 6          47,480

6441    S                 1300    W    Single- Family Dwelling     R- 1- 20         270,943

6487    5             Redwood     Rd   Single- Family Dwelling      RM- 8            48, 351

6499    S             Redwood     Rd   Single- Family Dwelling      RM- 8            10, 890

6489    S                 2200    W    Single- Family Dwelling     R- 1- 40         130, 680

6491    S             Cart Path   Ct            Undeveloped        R- 1- 20          64, 904

6511    S                 1300    W             Undeveloped        R- 1- 20          30,492

6525    S                 1300    W    Single- Family Dwelling     R- 1- 20          61, 419

6513    S             Redwood     Rd   Single- Family Dwelling      RM- 8            16, 988

1021   W                  4800     S   Single- Family Dwelling     R- 1- 10          32, 670

1226   W          Pinewood        Dr   Single- Family Dwelling     R- 1- 10          39, 204

1500   W                  4800     S   Single- Family Dwelling      R- 2- 8          14, 375

1530   W                  4800     5   Single- Family Dwelling      R- 2- 8            7, 840

1617   W                  4800     S   Single- Family Dwelling      R- 2- 8          16, 552

4730    5                 3040    W    Single- Family Dwelling      R- 1- 8          27, 007

4768    5                 1175    W    Single- Family Dwelling     R- 1- 10          30, 056

4892    S                 1250    W                     2- flex    R- 1- 20          20, 037

5212    S                 2200    W    Single- Family Dwelling     R- 1- 10          30, 340

5445    S                 2700    W                    Church      R- 1- 10          60, 548

6320    S                 Coral   Dr   Single- Family Dwelling     R- 1- 10          42, 253

 976   W                  4800     S   Single- Family Dwelling     R- 1- 10          55, 756

1166   W                  4800     S   Single- Family Dwelling     R- 1- 10          36, 154

1533   W                  4800     S   Single- Family Dwelling      R- 2- 8          30, 492

1540   W                  4800     S   Single- Family Dwelling      R- 2- 8          16, 552

1555   W                  4800     5   Single- Family Dwelling      R- 2- 8

2262   W                  6200     S   Single- Family Dwelling      R- 1- 8          25, 700

3487   W                  4700     S   Single- Family Dwelling      R- 1- 8          38, 332
           Exhibit C


       Properties That May be Eligible for Shared Driveway
                                                                 Current
           Address                       Current Land Use                    Lot Area( sgft)
                                                                 Zoning
4130   S                2200    W     Single- Family Dwelling      R- 2- 8          19, 860

4695   S                2200    W     Single- Family Dwelling      R- 1- 8          33, 105
4873   S     Plymouth View      Dr    Single- Family Dwelling      R- 2- 8          16, 988
4946   S                1250    W     Single- Family Dwelling     R- 1- 10          39, 639

5938   S             Don Jose   Cir   Single- Family Dwelling      R- 1- 8          29, 185

6320   S                2200    W     Single- Family Dwelling     R- 1- 10          40, 075

1110   W                4800     S    Single- Family Dwelling     R- 1- 10          39, 204

1575   W                4800     5    Single- Family Dwelling      R- 2- 8          21, 780

1581   W                6235     S    Single- Family Dwelling     R- 1- 10          43, 560

1592   W                4800     S    Single- Family Dwelling      R- 2- 8          21, 780

1795   W                4805     S    Single- Family Dwelling      R- 1- 8          45, 738

2013   W                5400     S    Single- Family Dwelling      R- 1- 8          31, 799

4737   S                1175    W     Single- Family Dwelling     R- 1- 10          53, 361

4850   S                3200    W     Single- Family Dwelling      R- 1- 8          33, 105

6378   S                2200    W     Single- Family Dwelling     R- 1- 20          67, 518

6535   S                1300    W     Single- Family Dwelling     R- 1- 20          48, 786

2011   W             Carefree   Cir   Single- Family Dwelling      R- 1- 6          19, 602

2296   W               Surrey   Rd    Single- Family Dwelling     R- 1- 20          82, 328

2533   W                6200     S    Single- Family Dwelling      R- 1- 7          25, 264

2797   W         Hazelhurst     Dr    Single- Family Dwelling      R- 1- 6          20, 473

3274   W             Rushton    Ln    Single- Family Dwelling      R- 1- 6          19, 602

4955   S                1250    W     Single- Family Dwelling     R- 1- 10          47, 480

4956   S       Jordan Canal     Rd    Single- Family Dwelling      R- 1- 8          26, 136

4960   S       Jordan Canal     Rd    Single- Family Dwelling      R- 1- 8          25, 700

4964   S       Jordan Canal     Rd    Single- Family Dwelling      R- 1- 8          33, 976

5681   5                Blake   Dr    Single- Family Dwelling      R- 1- 8          29, 620

6273   S      Mount Lincoln     Ct    Single- Family Dwelling      R- 1- 8          27,007

6427   S          Allegheny     Dr    Single- Family Dwelling     R- 1- 30          33, 105

6536   S                1300    W     Single- Family Dwelling     R- 1- 10          33, 105

1114   W                4800     S                 Vet Clinic     R- 1- 10          44, 429

1595   W                4800     S                     3- Plex     R- 2- 8          21, 780
            Exhibit C

       Properties That May be Elegible for Shared Driveway
                                                                Current
            Address                      Current Land Use                   Lot Area( sgft)
                                                                Zoning
1604   W                 4800     S   Single- Family Dwelling     R- 2- 8          14, 636

       W                 4800     S   Single- Family Dwelling     R- 2- 8          14, 331
1608

1616   W                 4800     S   Single- Family Dwelling     R- 2- 8          13, 547

1886   W                 4805     S   Single- Family Dwelling    R- 1- 10          33, 105

1941   W              Mt Vista   Dr   Single- Family Dwelling    R- 1- 10          39, 639

1958   W              Mt Vista   Dr   Single- Family Dwelling    R- 1- 10          33, 976

3041   W                 4900     S   Single- Family Dwelling     R- 1- 8          40,510

4906    S                3095    W    Single- Family Dwelling     R- 1- 8          33,541

4990    S       Jordan Canal     Rd   Single- Family Dwelling     R- 1- 8          45, 302

5001    S                3200    W    Single- Family Dwelling     R- 1- 8          42,719
             I:   _




                      J


                          r
1

    Niglio
       Council District 2




tS x




                            Sak take County, Mazar
Council District 3   l




        j




                         Sak take County. Maur
Council District 4
Council District 5   u




                         D




                             1
                                     o




     WS



                                 T
              4                          SaktekeCo   nryt   axa-
              Exhibit D




                                                       69
                                                Stephen G. McCutchon
                                                Lard Dc. c•'aper   1   Land Plarincr




                                                           MEMO



To:        Jim Sprung, Senior Planner
From:      Steve McCutchan, Land Planner
Date:      December 20, 2021



Re:        Proposed Revisions to Staff' s Zone Text Amendment for City Council Review


After our Wednesday meeting, we decided to prepare a revised version of your Zone Text Amendment
that we believe addresses the City Council' s concerns. Also, we have prepared a series of exhibits that
show the areas and an approximate number of lots that will be eligible to use the Shared Driveway
proposal to develop their property.


We believe the Council' s biggest concern was how broad was the effect of the Shared Driveway ZTA.
I' ve prepared an exhibit that shows the overall City and the possible affected areas and three details
sheets.




The ZTA revisions focus on addressing the Council' s concerns. My revisions are limited to proposed
Section 13. 21. 120, Pages 176 and 177 of the City' s Zoning Ordinance. The following is a description of
my proposed revisions.


      1.   While I don' t know if the number of units was a problem for the majority of the Council, a
           revision to the number will show a willingness on our part to address the voiced concerns with

           the number of units.

      2.   1 have reduced the number of townhomes to eight( 8) and reduced the maximum number of
           units to ten ( 10).   1 believe that the possibility of fourteen ( 14) units may have been
           overwhelming.
      3.   Second, to the Council' s concerns about affected areas, the Council expressed concern about

           single- family attached units' impact in single- family detached neighborhoods. I don' t believe
           they grasped that property zoning would limit the number of dwelling units on any particular
           parcel. One Council member said that it will always be ten ( 10) units even though it was clear

           zoning would only allow Teresa to build eight (8) and only seven ( 7) would fit on her property.
      4.   The new paragraph explains how zoning will affect the number of units and how different zones
           will calculate different numbers of units.
      5.   Driveway widths and parking were other issues that were discussed. My revision to Item F
           clarifies   driveway widths without and with parking, both parallel and angular parking.
            Exhibit D
Memo

December 20, 2021

Page 2



   6.    There was also confusion about garages on the property. I thought a requirement for a two- car
         enclosed garage with a remote garage opener would work better with the five ( 5) driveways.
   7.    1 proposed revisions in Section L that changed the setbacks between the driveways and exterior

         property lines. There isn' t sufficient width between the existing house and the property lines to
         put a 24 foot back of curb to back of curb width driveway and five ( 5) feet of landscaping.
   8.    1 deleted the graphic that showed the four( 4) SFD lots and the ten ( 10) townhomes and the
         labels that illustrated the various subsections. I believe that the graphic with the fourteen ( 14)

         units confused the Council and contributed to them thinking that every application would look
         like this.



Let' s discuss. We are interested in your comments.


Steve
           Exhibit D                                                          Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                 Chapter 13. 21 Subdivision Design Standards
                                                                        13. 21. 090 ALTERATION OR RELOCATION OF WATERWAYS:



      2.   The developer shall provide groundwater information to each lot purchaser/ owner and disclose the
           information on the plat.

B.    If required, groundwater drainage systems shall be designed and installed in accordance with
      construction standards and specifications determined by the city engineer.
C.    All drainage systems shall be extended to the outermost boundaries of the subdivision by the developer,
      or farther if necessary, to provide service.
D.    The city may prohibit basements in high water table areas upon recommendation from the city engineer.
E.    If a public utility is outside the public right of way, the developer and subsequent homeowner shall be
      responsible for maintenance.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)



13. 21. 090      ALTERATION OR RELOCATION OF WATERWAYS:
A.    A request for alteration or relocation of a waterway shall first be submitted to the city engineer to ensure
      the following:
      1.   The flow capacity and velocity of the waterway will not change with the proposed alteration or
           relocation.


      2.   The soils conditions in the proposed location will not increase flooding potential.
      3.   The proposed waterway can be maintained.
B.    After approval by the city engineer, alteration or relocation of any waterway shall be submitted and
      approved by all applicable agencies.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)

13. 21. 100      STREETS:
A.    All roads and roadway features are required to meet minimum geometric design standards established
      by the American Association Of State Highway And Transportation Officials( AASHTO) and other
      applicable entities. All street and right of way improvements shall be designed and constructed in
      accordance with the city standards. All signs, pavement markings, and traffic control signals must meet
      standards established by the" Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices"( MUTCD) and other applicable
      agencies, and related roadway standards established by state, federal, or local law. Exceptions to
      applicable standards may be granted by the city engineer on a case by case basis and shall demonstrate
      innovative superiority or other advantages over existing standards.
B.    The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade, and location of all streets shall conform to the
      transportation master plan and shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned streets,
      topographical conditions, public convenience and safety, and in their appropriate relation to the
      proposed uses of the land to be served by such streets.
C.    Where the transportation master plan does not show proposed streets, the arrangement of streets in a
      subdivision shall either:

      1.   Provide for the continuation or appropriate projection of existing principal streets in surrounding
           areas( providing for neighborhood connectivity with the purpose of spreading traffic); or
      2.    Conform to a plan for the neighborhood approved or adopted by the director to meet a particular
            situation where topographical or other conditions make continuance or conformance to existing
            streets impracticable.

D.    At least two( 2) points of ingress/ egress shall be provided for each subdivision or PUD project unless the
      project has one or more of the following:
      1.   A single cul- de- sac, hammerhead, or other approved turnaround approved by the UFA and city
            engineer that complies with all development standards herein.

      2.    An emergency access approved by the director.




City of Taylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                   173
            Exhibit D
                                                                          Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                            Chapter 13. 21 Subdivision Design Standards
                                                                                                     13. 21. 100 STREETS:



      3.    The future extension of a stub street that will provide additional access including a temporary
            turnaround approved by the UFA and city engineer.
E.    Stub streets that are longer than one hundred fifty feet( 150') shall have a temporary turnaround.
F.    The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provision for the continuation of the existing
      streets in adjoining areas and shall provide access to unsubdivided adjoining areas insofar as such
      continuation or access shall be deemed necessary by the planning commission. New streets must
      connect with existing public streets.
G.    Street right of way widths shall be as shown on the transportation master plan, and where not shown
      therein, shall not be less than the following:




City of Taylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                               174
            Exhibit D                                                              Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                      Chapter 13. 21 Subdivision Design Standards
                                                                                                13. 21. 110 PRIVATE STREETS/ LANES:




        Street type                                                       Right of Way Width

        Major arterial                                                           106+ feet

        Major collector                                                            80 feet

        Minor collector                                                            66 feet

        Local                                                                      50 feet

        Local rebuild                                                              42 feet

        Private streetAaf e type:

        Private street                                      50 feet( 26 foot pavement width minimum)
                                                                          fent
                  tape( 2 Int                               29 foot( 29
                                                                                                   m      m)
        Private                 m   r.,)
                                                                                 paV@A4@Pt Width




H.     Half streets are prohibited.

I.     A cul- de- sac is discouraged but may be permitted on local streets and shall be terminated by a
       turnaround of not less than ninety two feet( 92') in diameter as measured from top back of curb to top
       back of curb. A cul- de- sac shall not exceed four hundred feet( 400') in length in a residential zone. A cul-
       de- sac in the sensitive area overlay zone shall not exceed six hundred feet( 600') in length unless
       otherwise permitted by the planning commission upon recommendation from the city engineer. A cul-
       de- sac length is measured from its intersection with another street to the end of the cul- de- sac
       turnaround.

J.     Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible at right angles.
K.     No street names shall be used which will duplicate the names of existing streets. Street names are
       subject to the approval of the director and Salt Lake County recorder' s office.
 L.    Local streets shall be laid out to provide neighborhood connectivity so that traffic is distributed out
       evenly.
 M.    Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railroad right of way or limited access highway right of way,
       the planning commission may require a local access street approximately parallel to and on each side of
       such right of way.
 N.    Where a subdivision abuts or contains existing double frontage lots or a proposed arterial or collector
       street, the planning commission may require local access streets, reverse frontage with screen planting
       contained in a nonaccess reservation along the rear property line, deep lots with rear service alleys, or
       other such treatment as may be necessary for adequate protection of residential properties and to
       provide separation of through and local traffic.

O.     Park strips shall be required on all streets unless otherwise determined by the planning commission.
       They shall be designed and installed according to the city standards.
 P.    The requirements of this section may be waived or modified by the planning commission after
       considering a recommendation from the city engineer.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)

 13. 21. 110         PRIVATE STREETS111 ANIR;:

 Full width public street systems shall be installed for access to all residential dwelling sites, unless exempted by
the planning commission. A private streetAane-syste;^,     may be approved where it can be shown, based upon
 property width, connectivity( or the inability to connect to the existing street patterns), topographical concerns,
 overall subdivision design, the ability to provide service( which includes, but is not limited to, snowplowing,
 street sweeping, trash collection, and overall street maintenance), that a full width public street may not be the
 best solution for a new subdivision.

A.     Private Street:



 City of Taylorsville, LIT- Land Development Code
 Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                         175
              Exhibit D
                                                                                        Title 13: Land Development Code




        I     All roads and roadway features are required to meet minimum geometric design standards
              established by the American Association Of State Highway And Transportation Officials( AASHTO)
              and other applicable entities. All street and right of way improvements shall be designed and
              constructed in accordance with the city standards. All signs, pavement markings, and traffic control
              signals must meet standards established by the" Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices"
               MUTCD) and other applicable agencies, and related roadway standards established by state,
              federal, or local law. Exceptions to applicable standards may be granted by the city engineer on a
              case by case basis and shall demonstrate innovative superiority or other advantages over existing
              standards.


       2.     Approved private streets for access to residential dwelling structures shall have a fifty foot( 50') right
              of way and a twenty six foot( 26') minimum width paved surface. All private streets shall be
              constructed in accordance with the latest edition of the city standards, this land development code,
              and all other applicable city ordinances.
       3.     Private streets shall have appropriate turnaround( s) as determined by the city engineer and UFA.
       4.     The city engineer and UFA shall have the authority to require more than one access road based
              upon the potential for impairment of a single road by vehicle congestion, condition of terrain,
              climatic conditions, or other factors that could limit access.

       5.     Private streets shall not be obstructed in any manner including the parking of vehicles. The
              minimum widths and clearances shall be maintained at all times.

       6.     If a private street is approved, a perpetual maintenance plan shall be established for the
              homeowners' association so that the street is continually maintained as designed.
       7.     Whenever a subdivision is approved with a private street, the final subdivision plat shall include a
              statement that no city maintenance is provided on the private street.
 13. 21. 20 Shared Driveway

 Ashareddriveway arrangement may be eeniidered as an alternative layout for residential subdivisions allowing k+ p                        r



 of four( 4) single-family detached residential dwelling units and/ or ten( 19) eight( 8) single- family attached dwelling units•,%
 the combined total number of units does not exceed ten( 10) dwelling units to gain access via a shared driveway, provided the
 layout is approved with a preliminary plat pursuant to Chapter 13. 30: Subdivision Review.

 The maximum number of dwelling units constructed on a shared driveway shall not exceed ten( 10) or the number permitted by
 the zoning for a property or combination of properties proposed for development, whichever is less. The maximum number of
 dwelling units allowed by zoning shall be determined by dividing the number of net square feet in the property or combination
 of properties by the:

  1)   In R- 1 Districts( Single- Family), the Minimum Lot Size( Square Feet) as shown in Section 13. 04.020( i. e., 43, 560 net square
       feet divided by 8,000( R- 1- 8) Zone or maximum 5. 445 dwelling units),
  2)   In R- 2 Districts( Two- Family), eight( 8) dwelling units per acre in the R- 2. 10 Zone and ten( 10) dwelling units per acre in the
       R- 2- 8 Zone or

  3)   In the RM Districts( Residential Multiple- Family Districts), the Maximum density per acre as shown in Section 13. 20.70. 6.
       for the property or properties specific RM Zoning.


 Where the number of dwelling units permitted is a decimal number( i. e., 5.4), the number shall be rounded up to a tenth of a
 dwelling unit, and where the number of tenths is. 5 or less, the number shall be rounded down to a whole number. Where the
 tenth is 6 or more, the number may be rounded up.

 Shared driveways shall comply with the following:

A.     The shared driveway access shall be from a public or private street and shall not exceed 300 feet in length. Length shall be
       the distance from the edge of the street right- of-way granting access to the farthest point of the shared driveway,
       following a vehicle route.




City of Taylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020
                 Exhibit D                                                                Title 13: Land Development Code




B.      A shared driveway exceeding 150 feet in length shall include an approved vehicle turn-around pursuant to City and Unified
        Fire Authority standards.
C       The shared driveway shall not extend a stub street or cul- de- sac street beyond the distance allowed established in Sections
        14. 12. 080 and 13. 21. 100.

D.      The drivable surface( not including curb and gutter) of the shared driveway shall be a minimum 20 feet wide and shall be a
        solid surface designed to support the weight of emergency vehicles.
E.      Flag lots shall not gain access via a shared driveway.
F.      Parallel pRarking on the shared driveway may be allowed if the drivable surface is a minimum of 26 feet wide. The location
        of parallel parking and the size of the spaces shall be painted on ttie pavement. Angular parking stalls maybe accessed
        from the shared driveway if the drivable surface is a minimum of 24 feet wide. All parking spaces and drivable surface
        distances are subject to International Fire Code standards. If shared driveway parallel or angular parking is not allowed, the
        shared driveway shall be marked with permanent signage signifying no parking permitted as required by the International
        Fire Code.

G.      Each dwelling unit shall have a fully enclosed minimum two( 2) car garage, which shall be accessed using a remote access
        garage door opener.

H.      Each residential lot gaining access via the shared driveway shall satisfy the minimum building setback and lot dimensional
        requirements of the underlying zoning district. For purposes of this subsection, the area between the shared driveway,
        public street, and private street shall be a front yard. Setbacks from a shared driveway shall be measured from the
        dwelling structure to the property line, back of curb, or closest paved edge of the shared driveway, whichever is closest.
        The minimum setback from a vehicle turn- around or vehicle parking area to the dwelling structure shall be five( 5) feet-
I       The shared driveway shall be within a shared access easement in favor of all lots served by the shared driveway. Such
        easement shall be recorded on the subdivision plat.

J.      Maintenance and repair of shared driveways shall be the responsibility of a property owner' s association or adjacent
        property owners and shall be noted on the recorded subdivision plat. The City shall not be responsible for the
        maintenance, repair, or parking enforcement of a shared driveway.
K       Individual driveways leading from the shared driveway to each dwelling unit shall be a minimum of 22 feet in length,
        measured from the front of the garage or carport to the closest edge of the shared driveway. Individual driveway width
        shall not exceed 30 feet.
L.      Individual driveway lengths may be reduced to five( 5) feet in length if a separate parking area is provided that
        accommodates a minimum of one( 1) vehicle parking space for each unit with a driveway less than 22 feet in length. If
        reduced driveway lengths are appFeved.; sed, the building setback from the shared driveway may shall be reduced to
        match the individual driveway length.
M.      Each dwelling unit gaining access via a shared driveway shall have pedestrian access connected to a public or private street
        via a minimum five( 5) foot wide pedestrian accessway. The pedestrian accessway shall be physically separated from
        vehicular traffic and dwelling units by at least five( 5) feet, shall be adequately illuminated for safety, and meet City design
        standards.


N       A minimum five( 5) foot landscape buffer shall be required between the perimeter property lines of the project and
        pedestrian accessways and YehiEle dFiving suffac-es.
O.      Sufficient snow storage areas shall be provided on- site.
R       The shared driveway shall be designed in accordance with City driveway design and engineering standards.




    City of Taylorsville, LIT- Land Development Code
    Reformatted June 2020
                      Exhibit D
                                                                                    Title 13: Land Development Code




      42013. 21. 130
43i24-.                                      BUFFERING ALONG STREETS:

Residential developments shall not permit motor vehicle access directly onto an arterial, major collector, or
minor collector street or roadway from individual residential lots. No new residential developments shall be
permitted within the city which abut an arterial without requiring improvements along the entire length of the
development as it abuts the arterial street. The following standards shall apply:
             The planning commission may require a barrier wall six feet( 6') in height( measured from the highest
             elevation on either side of the wall). Where soil retention is required, walls may be up to eight feet( 8') in
             height( retaining wall and barrier wall combined). Wall design and coloration shall be block, brick, or
             concrete. Concrete strips placed at the base of the fence shall be required to eliminate gaps between
             walls and sidewalks.


r,.          Curb, gutter, and sidewalk shall be designed to specifications approved by the city engineer.
             A landscaped buffer between the sidewalk and street curb shall be installed according to city standards.
             In order to facilitate the planting of street trees, an eight foot( 8') park strip and five foot( 5') sidewalk is
             the standard requirement. Reduced park strip and sidewalk width may be approved based upon the size,
             scale, and nature of the project, and the type of existing improvements on adjacent properties. However,
             a ten foot( 10') cross section( 5 foot park strip, 5 foot sidewalk) is a minimum and may necessitate tree
             planting behind the sidewalk.
D.           Sprinkling system sufficient to maintain landscaping in all buffer areas shall be approved by the director.
r
             An additional landscaped buffer, including sprinkling and water connections, may be required by the
             planning commission between the sidewalk and barrier wall where it is impractical for the barrier wall to
             abut the sidewalk. The specific width of the buffer and landscaping specifications shall be determined by
             the planning commission upon recommendation by the director at the time of subdivision review.
I             Provisions or plans for perpetual maintenance shall be submitted with the landscape design.( Ord. 12- 15,
             7- 11- 2012)



13. 21. 13013. 21. 140                       PROTECTION STRIPS:

Reserve or protection strips controlling access to streets shall be prohibited.( Ord. 12. 15, 7- 11- 2012)

13:2-1. 14013. 21. 150                       BLOCK LENGTH:
A..          The lengths, width, and shapes of blocks shall be determined by the following:
              1.       Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs of the type of use contemplated.
              2.      Zoning requirements as to lot size and dimensions.


City of Taylorsville, UT- land Development Code
    F2ptOl ltldti.ed It it
             Exhibit D                                                       Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                Chapter 13. 21 Subdivision Design Standards
                                                                                         13. 21. 160 BRIDGES, CULVERTS, ETC.:



       3.    Needs for convenient access, circulation, control, and safety of street traffic.
       4.    Limitations and opportunities of topography.
B.     Block lengths shall not exceed eight hundred feet( 800').

C.     Pedestrian crosswalks shall be required where deemed essential to provide circulation or access to
       churches, schools, playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation, and other community facilities in
       accordance with city standards.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)

13. 21.: 5013. 21. 160              BRIDGES, CULVERTS, ETC.:

The developer/ subdivider shall pay all costs of designing, constructing or installing any bridge, pipe, culvert, or
other structure required by the city to provide access to or cover any ditch, canal, jurisdictional wetlands, etc.,
within the subdivision or adjacent thereto.

Automotive bridges/ culverts shall be designed to accommodate automotive and safe pedestrian traffic.( Ord.
12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)



 x. 013. 21. 170
13..                                WALKWAYS AND TRAILS:
A.     Determination: Walkways with a width of six( 6) to ten feet( 10') may be required within a subdivision.
       This will be determined on a case by case basis after review by city staff.
B.     Dedicated Parcels: The developer may be required to dedicate a sufficient amount of property to be used
       exclusively as a pedestrian access walkway. Such parcels to be dedicated shall be located in a position
       within the development as determined by the planning commission. The parcel shall also be of a size
       large enough to allow for such a walkway, such size to be determined by the planning commission.
C.     Improvements: The developer may be required to install upon the walkway such improvements as
       determined by the planning commission and the city engineer. All such improvements shall be erected
       and constructed in accordance with standards as may be established by the planning commission and
       city engineer.
D.     Pedestrian And Bicycle Paths: Where appropriate, the internal circulation system shall provide pedestrian
       and bicycle paths which may be physically separated from vehicular traffic to serve residential,
       nonresidential, and recreational facilities in or adjacent to the development. The planning commission
       may require connections to regional trail systems, activity centers, pedestrian and/ or bicycle overpasses,
       underpasses, or traffic signalization in the vicinity of schools, playgrounds, parks, shopping areas, or
       other uses that will receive considerable pedestrian and/ or recreational trails use from the development.
        Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)



            7013. 21. 180           SURVEY MONUMENTS:

Survey monuments shall be indicated on the final plat. A permit and approval from the Salt Lake County
surveyor' s office for the installation of survey monuments must be obtained prior to the setting of any survey
monuments and before any subdivision improvements are accepted.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)


13-21. 18013. 21. 190                EASEMENTS:
A.     Easements for utilities and drainage shall be provided where necessary as determined by various public
       utility agencies, and the city engineer.
B.     Easements for surface water runoff drainage, canals, irrigation ditches, waterways, clear vision areas, and

       rights of way within the subdivision and across adjoining property may be required by the city when
       necessary to properly serve the subdivision or protect its citizens.
       1.    Open ditches shall not be allowed within or adjoining a subdivision. The developer/ subdivider shall
             work with ditch irrigation companies and the city engineer as to:



City of Taylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                    180
                 Exhibit D
                                                                                 Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                    Chapter 13. 21 Subdivision Design Standards
                                                                                                     13. 21. 200 PUBLIC UTILITIES:



                 a.
                      Methods of covering, realigning, or eliminating ditches, pipes, or canals within or adjoining the
                      subdivision.

                 b.   The size of pipe and culverts required.
                 c.   The responsibility for the periodic inspection, cleaning, and maintenance of such ditches, pipes,
                      and culverts shall be reviewed by the city engineer. In cases where ditches cross public roads or
                      proposed public roads, specifications and grades for pipe or culvert must be approved by the
                      city engineer in accordance with the city' s specifications.
           2.    The developer/ subdivider may be required to install a six foot( 6), nonclimbable fence or its
                 equivalent along all open ditches, canals, waterways, open reservoirs or other bodies of water,
                 railroad rights of way, and other such features of a potentially hazardous nature, on or contiguous
                 to the property being subdivided as determined by the planning commission.
           3.    After installation and acceptance by the city, individual property owners are responsible for
                 maintenance of fences or portions of fences erected upon their property and shall hold the city
                 harmless for any and all defects of workmanship, maintenance, repair, and liability arising from the
                 erection or intended use of said fence.

C.         Easements for public trails shall be provided where necessary as determined by applicable public
           agencies, including the Salt Lake County parks and recreation department and the U. S. forest service.
            Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)


12.
  013. 21. 200
 1°                                     PUBLIC UTILITIES:
A.         The developer shall be responsible for the installation of service lines prior to street paving.
B.         All utilities which will serve the parcel being subdivided shall be buried beneath the surface of the ground
           and shall be located within the easements provided for such use or within the streets at a location to be
           determined by the city.
C.         All utility structures shall be included as part of the construction drawings submitted with the final plat.
D.         There shall be no aboveground utility structures placed in a right of way but may be placed out of the
           public right of way in a public utility easement as approved by the city engineer.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)

     2.'
                013. 21. 210            STREET LIGHTING:
A.         The developer shall follow all applicable requirements for the installation of streetlights and all
           streetlights shall be placed as approved by the director. Such items to be approved include appropriate
           distance, alternating sides of street, location upon the property, streetlight type, height, and illumination
           intensity as determined by the city's specifications.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)

13. 2           013. 21. 220            LOTS:
A.         Every parcel of land created by a subdivision shall comply with the minimum lot size requirements of this
           code and shall be platted as part of a subdivision. No parcel of land shall be created or left unplatted
           which is either undevelopable or serves merely as a nuisance or lot remnant.
B.         Except as may be otherwise provided in this development code, all lots shall have the required frontage
           upon a dedicated and improved street. Exceptions may include the following:
           1.    Residential building lots that do not have frontage upon a public street shall obtain an exception
                 from the planning commission as part of the preliminary review process.
           2.    Commercial building lots within a recorded subdivision are exempt from this requirement. They
                 may be developed without direct frontage upon a public street.
C.         Where a canal or exclusive utility easement abuts a subdivision, the area or portion of the canal which is
           located in the lot(s) shall not be included in the computation of total lot size nor side or rear yard
           setbacks for purposes of determining compliance with the development code.


City of Taylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                        181
           Exhibit D                                                          Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                 Chapter 13. 21 Subdivision Design Standards
                                                                                                        13. 21. 230 FLAG LOTS:




D.    All lot corners, points of curvature, tangency, and bearing changes shall be marked with permanent
      metal stakes approved by the city. The front corners of the lot shall be marked as per the city standards.
E.    Double frontage and reverse frontage lots shall be avoided except where essential to provide separation
      of residential development from traffic arteries or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and
      orientation.


F.    Where possible, side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles to street lines.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)

13.
 x22013.         21. 230            FLAG LOTS:

In order to encourage the more efficient use of land, flag, or L- shaped lots may be allowed as an exception( a
permitted use within the sensitive area overlay district) subject to the following conditions:
A.    A flag or L- shaped lot shall be comprised of a staff portion contiguous with the flag portion thereof.
B.    The staff portion of said lot shall front on and be contiguous to a dedicated public street or private street.
      The minimum width of the staff portion of a flag lot shall be twenty feet( 20'), and the maximum length
      shall be two hundred twenty feet( 220') unless otherwise approved by the planning commission upon
      recommendation of the UFA.

C.    A flag lot shall not gain access via an easement on an adjacent property.
D.    No building or construction, except for driveways, shall be allowed on the staff portion of said lot unless
      the minimum width thereof is the same or greater than the minimum width for a lot as allowed in the
      underlying zone( excluding entrance features and streetlights).
E.    The front side of the flag portion of said lots shall be deemed to be that side nearest to the dedicated
      public street or private street upon which the staff portion fronts, unless otherwise determined by staff
      on a case by case basis.
F.    The staff portion of said lots shall be deemed to end, and the flag portion of said lots shall be deemed to
      commence at the extension of the front lot line.

G.    The square footage located in the flag portion of said lot, which shall be exclusive of the square footage
      located in the staff portion of said lot, shall be the same or greater than the minimum square footage as
      required in the underlying zone, but in no instance shall be less than eight thousand( 8, 000) square feet.
H.    The front, side, and rear yard requirements of the flag portion of said lots shall be the same as is
      required in the underlying zone.
I.    No more than two( 2) flag lots can be served by the staff portion.
J.    All flag lots in the development shall be approved by the planning commission.
K.    The maximum number of flag lots in the subdivision shall be not more than twenty percent( 20%) of the

      total number of lots within the subdivision unless otherwise approved by the planning commission.
L.    The approved building envelope shall be illustrated upon the final plat.
M.    Below is an example of a flag lot and is included herein to illustrate the concept of a flag or L- shaped lot.
      N.          A duplex, twin home, or any other multi-family dwelling shall not be located on a flag lot.

                               FIGURE 1 FLAG LOT MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS




City of Taylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                     182
             Exhibit D
                                                                           Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                Chapter 13. 22 Manufactured Home Parks
                                                                                               13. 21. 240 SEISMIC AREAS:




                                                                   r




       Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)



13.'
n-        3013. 21. 240               SEISMIC AREAS:

Any subdivision or lot on or adjacent to a seismic area shall comply with provisions of the sensitive area overlay
zone.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)


 2'
          4013. 21. 250               EXCEPTIONS:

Any exception authorized by the planning commission as allowed in this chapter shall be shown on the final
plat, and the reasons for such exception shall be entered in writing in the minutes of the planning commission
meeting.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)


Chapter 13. 22                     Manufactured Home Parks

13. 22.010         PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to:

A.     Permit variety and flexibility in land development for residential purposes by allowing the use of
       manufactured homes in certain districts within the city.
B.     Assure that manufactured home development will be of such character as to promote the objectives and
       purposes of this code, to protect the integrity and characteristics of the zone districts contiguous to those
       in which manufactured home parks are located, and protect other use values contiguous to or near
       manufactured home parks.

C.     Encourage manufactured home parks to be located adjacent to or in close proximity to an arterial or
       collector street.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)




City of Taylorsville, LIT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                               183
              Exhibit D                                                       Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                               Chapter 13. 36 Definitions
                                                                                               13. 36. 130 V' DEFINITIONS:




13. 36. 130         " L" DEFINITIONS:

LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT
A person who holds a certificate to practice landscape architecture in the State of Utah.

LANDSCAPE DESIGNER

A person who has been certified by the Utah Nursery and Landscape Association to prepare landscape plans or
as otherwise approved by the Public Utilities Department.

LANDSCAPE EDUCATION PACKAGE
A package of documents that is intended to inform and educate water users in the City about water efficient
landscapes. The package includes the principles of water efficient landscape design, a listing of water
conserving plants, a listing of certified landscape designers, landscape architects, certified irrigation designers,
certified irrigation contractors, an information packet about various area demonstration projects, city' s water
rates, billing format for water use, and the economics of installing and maintaining a water efficient landscape.
LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION AUDITOR

A person who has been certified by the Irrigation Association to conduct a landscape irrigation audit or as
otherwise approved by the public utilities department.

LANDSCAPE PLAN

A plan showing the proposed location, type and size of all trees, shrubs and ground covers to be planted on the
site as well as a complete water efficient irrigation system plan.

LANDSCAPE PLAN DOCUMENTATION PACKAGE

The preparation of graphic and written criteria, specifications, and detailed plans to arrange and modify the
effects of natural features such as plantings, ground and water forms, circulation, walks, and other features to
comply with the provisions of this title. The landscape plan documentation package shall include a project data
sheet, a planting plan, an irrigation plan, a grading plan, a soils report, a landscape water allowance, and an
irrigation schedule.


LANDSCAPE WATER ALLOWANCE
For design purposes, the upper limit of annual applied water for the established landscaped area. It is based
upon the local reference evapotranspiration rate, the ET adjustment factor, and the size of the landscaped area.

LANDSCAPED ZONE

A portion of the landscaped area having plants with similar water needs, areas with similar microclimate, i. e.,
slope, exposure, wind, etc., and soil conditions and areas that will be similarly irrigated. A landscape zone can
be served by one irrigation valve or a set of valves with the same schedule.

LANDSCAPING

Any combination of living plants such as trees, shrubs, vines, ground covers, flowers, turf or ornamental grass;
natural features such as rock, stone, or bark chips; and structural features, including, but not limited to,
fountains, reflecting pools, outdoor artwork, screen walls, fences, or benches.

LANDSCAPING, DRY

The finishing and adornment of yard areas solely by use of rocks, fountains, lanterns, benches, decorative
paving, etc., and not including growing or planted materials.

LANE, PRIVATE

                                             fi#




or two( 2)   lots, or is less than GALB            y feet( 159') iR leAgth.




City of Taylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                 365
             Exhibit D
                                                                                Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                                    Chapter 13. 36 Definitions
                                                                                                    13. 36. 200" S DEFINITIONS



RESOURCE FAMILY HOME
See definition of Human Services Programs Or Facilities.

REST HOME

See definition of Nursing Home.

RESTAURANT

An eating establishment in which food is prepared for either on or off premises consumption, with service
being provided in a traditional sit down restaurant with indoor or outdoor seating style or served from a
counter. This definition also includes specialty food stores such as ice cream parlors or delicatessens, but does
not include drive- in or drive- up window service.

RESTAURANT, DRIVE- IN/ DRIVE- UP WINDOW

An eating establishment in which food is prepared and served. May include facilities for indoor seating, takeout,
drive- up window service, or outside service provided by employees to customers in vehicles.

RETAIL SALES AND SERVICES

A commercial enterprise that provides goods and/ or services directly to the consumer where such goods are
available for immediate purchase and removal from the premises by the purchaser. This also includes retail
establishments engaged in selling goods or merchandise to the general public as well as to other retailers,
contractors, or businesses, and rendering services incidental to the sale of such goods. Retail establishments
could also involve a high volume of sales of related and/ or unrelated products in a warehouse setting and may
include membership warehouse clubs( big box retail).

RETAINING WALL
A structure or combination of natural elements constructed to hold back or support the adjacent slope, earthen
berm or otherwise create a differential in heights between two( 2) or more land masses.

RIGHT OF WAY

The portion of roadway dedicated to the purpose of conveying vehicle and pedestrian traffic, and other public
use. This area shall include, but not be limited to, all areas of pavement and sidewalk between opposing
property lines.

ROADWAY

That portion of a street improved, designed, or ordinarily used for vehicular travel.

RUNOFF

Irrigation water that is not absorbed by the soil or landscape area to which it is applied and that flows onto
other areas.( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012; amd. Ord. 12- 28, 10- 17- 2012; Ord. 12- 29, 10- 17- 2012; Ord. 18- 26, 10- 17-
2018)



13. 36.200        " S" DEFINITIONS

SARA TITLE III

The Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act section found in 40 CFR 300- 302, pertaining to emergency
response and right to know.

SCHOOL

Any building( public or private) used primarily for the general education of minors.

SCHOOL, CHARTER

A public school established by a contract with a school district governing board, the State Board of Education,
or the State Board for Charter Schools pursuant to State law.




City of Taylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                     381
            Exhibit D                                                         Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                                 Chapter 13. 36 Definitions
                                                                                                  13. 36. 200" S" DEFINITIONS




SCHOOL, COMMERCIAL
A school established to provide for the teaching of vocational, industrial, clerical, managerial, artistic skills, or
similar skills. This definition applies to schools that are owned and operated privately for profit and that do not
offer a complete educational curriculum, e.g., beauty school, modeling school.

SCHOOL, COMMERCIAL( LOW IMPACT)
Those commercial schools which are artistic in nature and which have a relatively low impact on surrounding
uses because they are conducted indoors; have a limited number of students; and do not require a large
number of parking spaces because of the age of the students. Such schools generally include smaller scale
dance schools, music lessons, martial arts schools, gymnastics schools and similar uses.

SCHOOL, PRIVATE OR QUASI- PUBLIC
A school operated by a private or quasi- public organization, or individual, which has a curriculum similar to that
provided in any public school in the State of Utah, except that such curriculum may include religious instruction.
A private school may be a profit making or nonprofit organization. A private school may also include laboratory
and shop instruction with the use of demonstration vehicles, products or models incidental to said instruction;
but shall not include the repair, maintenance and manufacture of vehicles, goods or merchandise, and shall not
provide direct services, other than instruction to the general public.( Does not include commercial schools.)

SCHOOLS, PUBLIC

An educational facility operated by a school district or other public agency of the State of Utah.

SCULPTURE PARK

A facility for the display for viewing and/ or sale of sculptures. Facility may include outdoor display. Such facility
typically includes a large expanse of landscaped green space containing an array of gardens, fountains, and
sculptural artworks.



SEARCHLIGHT

A temporary advertising device which is a stationary or revolving light which flashes or projects illumination,
single color or multicolored, in any manner which is intended to attract or divert attention.

SECONDARY CONTAINMENT( Drinking Water Source Protection Ordinance)
Any system that is used to provide release detection and release prevention, such as trays under containers,
floor curbing or other systems designed to hold materials or liquids that may discharge from containers
holding regulated substances. Examples include a double walled tank, a double walled integral piping system,
or a single walled tank or integral piping system that is protected by an enclosed concrete vault, liner, or an
impervious containment area.


SECONDHAND GOODS STORE
Any business which is engaged in the purchase, barter, exchange, or sale of any secondhand merchandise or
which deals in secondhand goods, excluding businesses dealing in used motor vehicles and trailers and pawn
shops. Typical businesses in this definition are thrift stores, used clothing stores, etc.

SECURE CORRECTIONAL FACILITY

See definition of correctional facility.

SECURE DETENTION

See definition of correctional facility.

SECURE FACILITY

See definition of correctional facility.

SECURE TREATMENT
See definition of human services programs or facilities.




City of Taylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                    382
               Exhibit D
                                                                              Title 13: Land Development Code
                                                                                                   Chapter 13. 36 Definitions
                                                                                                   13. 36. 200" S" DEFINITIONS



SEMITRAILER

Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property with another and separate motor vehicle so
that in operation a part of its own weight or that of its load, or both, rests upon and is carried by another
vehicle.


SENIOR APARTMENT UNITS

Single-family dwelling units within a single building for persons age fifty five( 55) and older.
SENSITIVE AREA

An area of land which contains environmental or potential geological hazards, and which, if altered, may cause
damage to the environment.


SEPTIC HOLDING TANK( Drinking Water Source Protection Ordinance)
A watertight receptacle, used to contain septic waste. The contents of which are extilated and disposed of at a
waste disposal facility.

SEPTIC TANK SYSTEM( Drinking Water Source Protection Ordinance)
A generally watertight receptacle connected to a drainfield that allows liquid from the tank to enter the soil. The
system is constructed to promote separation of solid and liquid components of domestic wastewater, to
provide decomposition of organic matter, to store solids, and to allow clarified liquid to discharge for further
treatment and disposal in a soil absorption system.

SETBACK

The setback for all structures is the shortest distance between the property line and the building or any portion
thereof excluding the following:
    A.     Window awnings and unenclosed front entry and steps not protruding more than five feet( 5') into the
           setback area.


    B.     Uncovered patios.

    C.     Decks and balconies not greater than two feet( 2') in height from grade, and not less than four feet( 4')
           from the rear property line and eight feet( 8') from the side property line.
    D.     Decks and balconies not greater than eight feet( 8') above grade and not less than ten feet( 10') from
           the rear lot line.

    E.     Chimney and roof overhangs protruding no greater than two feet( 2') into the setback area.

SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS

Adult businesses, nude entertainment businesses, seminude dancing bars, outcall services, and nude and
seminude dancing agencies as defined in title 5, chapter 5. 82 of the Taylorsville Code.

SHARED DRIVEWAY

A method of providing ingress or egress to two or more single- family attached or detached dwelling units
within an access easement.



SHELTER

See definition of correctional facility.

SHELTERED WORKSHOP

A nonresidential facility providing supervised educational or vocational training facility for persons with a
disability.

SHOPPING CENTER

An area or group of commercial or mixed- use structures built on a site that is planned, developed, managed
and owned by a single entity as a unified and contiguous operating unit.


City of Taylorsville, UT- Land Development Code
Reformatted June 2020                                                                                                    383
                                                                  3111nsaolAV1
                                                                         uio unw Al.          auuo:) s],



                                                      d               lei                )

          a
                                                      paaeys ennaniaa
                                                     aoueuipjop, seaay
                                                                     ._-
                                                     pueta s1071



ACV           t




      ajK
                  aiewlxoiddtl                       3uamnO         alewlxaddtl              PaaewIg3

                  u014e3ol                 Sony       8uiuoZ      101 saziS sang)            0N 54010'
                                                                                                (

                  o08b s 000l M              OZ       8 1- 01-          0 SZ'    I-0'                    s

                  oosb s OOEI M             Lz 8'      a Z- 8-                   01                     bZ

              t                                       orra

                                                      a T- sT-

                  auoispenbMoosT             Z E'      11 1- 8-                  1 0'                    Z
      s
                  sDols MOozz                L Z'     a T- OZ-                   1 0'                    8

                  MOOETs0049               Eb S'      a T- OT-                   01                     ob

                                                      a T- oz-

                       S Pao
                  0099 _             P--     9 6'     11 1- 91-          0 S'    T- S'                   9

                  MOoEIsOOS9                 6 b'     11 T- OZ-          01      T- S'                   9

                  OOOZ M IIN VISTA 110         Z'£    a T- OI-          SCO      I-0'                    E

                  000 S      009£M           L 9'      11 T- 8-         0 SZ'    SO-                     8

                  006b S OOOb M              8 S'      11 1- 8-                 0 SZ'                   VE

                                           LI1 b                                                    I    9£
                          c

         t    w t'   ,                 4S" 1S ,'   1 $   Y+"+
                                                                   JRA,
                                                                t.,+      1Rr''         71'C   IE.cadl' wl•,`   ".,"   ...   '.                    al




                                  NF




                                                                                                      t




                                                                                                                                                                  tw
                                                                                                                                                    ISI
                                                                          d •
t   `,       A-
                     44
                     4
                                                                                  14.
                                                                                        i.•;, ,(




                                                                                                    fir:   1,''.                  f..,   '"




                                                                                                                                              t
                                                                                                                                              '.          at..•




                              4
f• --                                                                                                                                                                                                               j.,
                               t                                               d;.   Y     rs                            r     $
                                                                                                                                                 r .
                                                                                                                                                                             i        -   '        A
                                                                                                                                                                                                            x         Yf:   r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Y   w .,"/'
                          S`                  i                                                            p-`                                         ti`'. ,                                         i                                            r•




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AN
                                                                                                                                           ip1




             y                                                                       i!a        a7,
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ry . ,                             r,t
                                                                        s _
                                                                               1
                                                                                                       1         1                        fx      .      t       f           +•.              ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                   4   al3slr         g,       '        fitl                                         1_ M,_
                                                                                                                              x}
                                                                                                                                   id!.                          Y
                                                                                                                                                                     1st.:
                                                                                                                                                                                              s J1W




                                                                   IS




f0FviO®r,
                                                                                                s
                                                                          w,                                                          Y                                                                                                                        FAP
                                                                                                                               v                                                                                                              y..

                           Y                  n       "•
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         31,




        tt
                 j1   a
                                                                                                                                                                                 p(



                                          t       •        r                                                                               a                                                   1-                                             J1
J




                                                                                            evj.
                                                                                                      1N
it                                      at•                               t                  y,`                                                                                 ya,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          r•      eln.         °,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Sc_    ir.+•.:                  r' ,
          a           .                                     i"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                JI




                              r     r.• +,    a
                                                        N,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 i..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   i.•
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     f
                                                                                                                                    J'                                                       i '".                                                                     fry




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             00



                                                                                            4 ,          3W
                                                                                                                     t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          fl '
                                                                 7                                                                       i!    4         -•                                                                                                                  ii
                                                                                                                                                                                 9S                                                                          Y#
                                                                                                                                                               iC1       3                            1   iY'^       Y+   i.




     a
          c     ,".                      ww       `



                                                                         fp ,•"'#
                                                                                               fix            I•
                                                                                                                    ry
                                                                                                                                Y, •
                                                                                                                              y,•
                                                                                                                                                          t[   +"„
                                                                                                                                                                     l       !        "^..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     K_'*'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             K+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       u"•
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  It
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  r ,



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   lj
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        t   i     r': xi'
                                              s

                                                                                                                                                                         7                      Yom   •   '      ;
                                                                           t.                                                                                    Y                                                                                  y1.
                                                                                                                                                                                       I


    lip




     x            S       ,             ir            ;`•_ t'        y                                                                                                                                                                   iY a_^
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             r                              t + .
t         1-'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      nom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         i
                                                                                a'+
                                                                                            eti!•
                                                                                                                              t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                              fttl`                w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3-
                          c       ..,                 n-,                  t    .     w!.            t                   r`
                                                                                                                                              tiF   >.

                                                                                                                                                                             r                                                           a*




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Gi                      i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.
                          a,.` {•                 „
                                                                         t, ,..                 tarp"         -,-




                                                                                                                                                   w


                                                                                                                                         k




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A-




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Z
                       Ii91qxl a


                                                                         Ientdaouoo S a}!veld
                                                                         uozaa 6u! Iddy uoiteo!

                                                                                   OOLt7 ujnoS
                                                                          09£ tsaM £
                                                   tz o-
                                                                         nsJOIAel all! in `


                                                                         aaaoy                           0 6tr*
                                                                         juaaano 6uluoZ               d L- g-
                                                                         pasodoad 6uiuoZ
                                                                                      `.                 A1 ] 91,-
                                                                                                               :
                                                           t
                                                                         aaovmaxen                           91,
                                                                         xeW d ,pannoll` un s}!               g
                                                                         pasodoJd un si!                      L

                                      OZ O"


                                                                         p taaAs}}6uNed
                                                                         tl nba uawaa!               0o*£
                                                                                                        un/ t!
                                                                         j pajinba                          LZ
                                                                         96eieE) saoedS                      I, t,
                                                            e
                                 oS                                      buNed saoedS                         g
                                              O6
                                                                         6uNed noad pap!                    ZZ
                                                                         Iaed 6u!>aad un i!       t7vc un/
                                                                                                         : i!


                                                                         I buldeospue-
                                                           ti            saaod noad pap!                 0 L' L
                   N
                                                                              Ietol saaoy
                                                                           to %                      Z     9*£


                                                                         D uowwo: uadp aoedS
                                                                         saaoy noad pap!                 Vo t,
                                                           All                ol le} sajoy
                                                                           to %                      6Z L-


                                                                         MS 9) tool n
                                                                                    ( IAu! ouad 6u! of
                                                                         aq patoaaa uo Ile aouatxa
                                                                         s ap! pue aew Apadoid l sau!
                                                                 r   F
                                                                         saintonatS
                                                                         6u11slx3 asnoy of uiewaa
                                                                         AIatewlxoadde L L 0o dS
                                                                                             i




                                                                         nnaN OI sawouun 01 aq
                                                                         aaay}          sauo} u! ay 146!
                                                                                     s (£)

                                                                         pue xoidde Alajew! l, 009' dS




uejdwanajs
uayeai5 g nyyy'i. ury>Il08!St69tSi
                                                                                                 o          oz
                    Exhibit D

                                               19. 5


                                        Living Room




     N
     M
            O


            N
              r
                            HVAC


                                               Two Car
                                               Garage
                                                                             Rolm




                                                                                      fining
                                                                                                      4Bathroom    Bedroom


                                                                        Kitchen
                                                                                                      Look

                                      First Floor                    Second Floor                      Third Floor


                                                                                                             Floor plans and
                                                                                                             elevations shown are
                                                                                               Y. `          conceptual and are
                                                                                                             subject to revision.




                                                                                                             Front
                                                                                                             Elevation


                                                                                  a




                                                                                                             Rear
                                                                                                             Elevation
                                                         Conceptual Site Plan
                                                         Rezoning Application
                            6n.                          3503 West 4700 South
stevernIan              p         U3BT280010
St   Mn G. McC tchan 801x557.6945
w.,- -        1.
                   1-       pl,            d             Taylorsville, UT
                                                                                                                             NTS
                                               m
                                    n@g-
                                                                                                                    0
