                                     TAYLORSVILLE, UTAH
                                     ORDINANCE NO. 22- 09


AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF TAYLORSVILLE AMENDING TAYLORSVILLE
      MUNICIPAL CODE SECTION 2. 12. 033: ELECTRONIC MEETINGS.


        WHEREAS, the Taylorsville        City Council ( the " Council") met during its regularly
scheduled   meeting   on   September 21,    2022, to   consider,   among   other   things,   amending
TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE Section 2. 12. 033: Electronic Meetings; and


        WHEREAS, in its 2022 General Session, the Utah State Legislature passed House Bill 22,
which amended the requirements for a public body holding electronic meetings; and

        WHEREAS, House Bill 22 amends UTAH CODE ANN. § 52- 4- 207 regarding electronic
meetings to require that a public body establish by resolution, rule, or ordinance the conditions
under which a remote member is included in calculating a quorum; and

     WHEREAS, H.B. 22 also permits a public body to establish the conditions under which a
member may vote or take other action by proxy; and

        WHEREAS, H.B. 22 also requires a public body to take all votes by roll call during an
electronic meeting if the vote is not unanimous.

        WHEREAS, H.B. 22 requires that public bodies incorporate these amendments into their
resolutions, rules, or ordinances governing electronic meetings no later than December 31, 2022;
and



        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it would be in
the best interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the City' s citizens to amend TAYLORSVILLE
MUNICIPAL CODE Section 2. 12. 033: Electronic Meetings as proposed.


        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Taylorsville City Council that the
proposed amendments to TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE Section 2. 12. 033: Electronic Meetings
are hereby approved and are designated by interlineating the words to be deleted and underlining
the words to be added, as follows:

                                TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE
                                     Chapter 2: 12 City Council
                              Section 2. 13. 033: Electronic Meetings


      A. Definitions: The following terms are defined as follows for the purpose of this section:

ANCHOR LOCATION:            The council chambers located in the city offices at 2600 West
Taylorsville Boulevard, Taylorsville, UT 84119, in Salt Lake County, Utah, where interested
persons and the public may attend and monitor the open portions of the meeting.




                                                 2
ELECTRONIC MEETING: A public meeting of the city council convened and conducted by
means of a telephonic conference device or other electronic means, allowing each member of the
city council to be in contact with the anchor location and participate concurrently with all other
members of the city council in the conduct of such meeting.

MEETING ADMINISTRATOR: The city recorder or another employee of the city specifically
assigned and designated to operate the electronic meeting equipment at the anchor location to
assure  that all members of the city council are continuously able to participate in

the electronic meeting and to advise the party conducting the meeting of the initiation, recess, if
appropriate, or adjournment of an electronic meeting.


      B.           Electronic Meetings:   The city council may convene electronic meetings when
necessary pursuant to specific public notice of an electronic meeting by posting written notice of
the electronic meeting at the anchor location and providing written or electronic notice to the
media as otherwise provided by law. Notice of the electronic meeting shall also be provided to
each member of the city council at least twenty- four (24) hours before the meeting, including a
description of how members will be connected to the electronic meeting. The notice to members
of the city council shall indicate the process including telephone numbers, access codes, interne
addresses, etc.,   in order to connect to the electronic meeting.

      C.           Quorum Verification: Before an electronic meeting may be called to order, all
members of the city council shall be given an opportunity to participate in the meeting and
no electronic meeting shall be convened unless the a quorum of the city council is present at the
anchor     location for the meeting.   Only city council members physically present at the anchor
location shall be considered in the determination of whether a quorum is present; members
participating remotely in the meeting via electronic means shall not be considered in determining
whether a quorum is present.


      D.           Public Attendance: Each electronic meeting shall be convened by the meeting
administrator by announcing the parties present at the meeting and by making available to
members of the public at the anchor location an amplified speaker enabling members of the public
to hear the comments of city council members and participate if appropriate.

      E.       Conduct of The Meeting: Upon determining that a sufficient number of the city
council is present at the anchor location and members of the public can adequately hear the
comments of all members of the city council and participate if appropriate, the chairman shall
formally convene the meeting and take or cause a roll call of those participating. The chairman
shall provide opportunity for each matter on the agenda to be presented and discussed, in an order
set forth in the agenda, as amended.


      F.       Non-Unanimous Votes. The City Council shall take all votes during an electronic
meeting by roll call if the vote is not a unanimous vote.

           Compliance with Law: In all other respects, electronic meetings shall be conducted,
           recorded, and minutes shall be kept as required by law.( Ord. 11 15, 9 7 2011)




                                                    3
       This ordinance, assigned Ordinance No. 22- 09, shall take effect as soon as it shall be
published or posted as required by law, deposited and recorded in the office of the City Recorder,
and accepted as required herein.


        This Ordinance No. 22- 09 shall repeal and replace Ordinance No. 22- 27.


       PASSED AND APPROVED this 21st day of September 2022.



                                                 TAYLORSVILLE CITEI UNCIL


                                                            4/
                                                 Brda .0'_.i               / ;,,, _..
                                                                           API     14- 1.,
                                                            t
                                                       C•         cil Chair



                                                 VOTING:


                                                 Meredith Harker                        Yea /     Nay
                                                 Ernest Burgess                         Yea 7Nay
                                                 Bob Knudsen                            Yea /,        lay
                                                 Curt Cochran                          Yea ,, flay_
                                                 Anna Barbieri                         Yea tr- Nay

                                                                                                  we



       PRESENTED        to   Mayor    of   Taylorsville          for her   approval   this   cJ             day of
                        2022.




       APPROVED this                 day of, S         ,,,)-4k-_,1 ,          2022.



                                                  4                         S . 0"-
                                                                                  t44r—
                                                                                      e---

                                                 Mayor Kristie S. Overson
ATTEST:
                                                                                                        f        kYLO/ 1 '
                                                                                                                                      1

                                                                                                            o
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                    '   4 •'
                                                                                                                                          ill
                                                                                                      Vt?                    O•             11
                   6`._.: +                                                                       I     i   SEAL
                                                                                                                                  z



Jam_rooks, Recorder
                                                                                                  l         1,
                                                                                                        .....:
                                                                                                                         sore;



                                                                                                                 V, ,



       DEPOSITED in the Recorder' s office this                    day of                       2022.       ....


       POSTED this a---
                      day...                                      2022.
                          of
                                     5er
                                                   4
