                                            D
                                   CITY COUNCIL
                           AGENDA SUMMARY FORM
                           COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

          MEETING DATE:    June 15, 2022

                              AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF TAYLORSVILLE APPROVING A ZONING MAP
           AGENDA ITEM:       AMENDMENT FROM SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL R- 1- 10 TO SINGLE FAMILY
                           RESIDENTIAL R- 1- 7 FOR 0. 41 ACRES OF PROPERTY LOCATED AT 4645 S. 1175 W.

                  FILE#:   3Z22

PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED:     Yes    Z No

    ORDINANCE REQUIRED:    0 Yes       No

   RESOLUTION REQUIRED:      Yes    Z No

                AUTHOR:    Jim Spung, AICP, Senior Planner
             PRESENTER:    Wayne Harper, Economic&      Community Development Director
               SUMMARY:    Alexander Bryner, on behalf of the property owner, is requesting a Zoning Map
                           amendment to rezone the property at 4645 S. 1175 W. from Single Family R- I- 10
                           to Single Family R- 1- 7.

                           The Single Family R- 1- 10 zoning district is characterized as a residential district
                           allowing one dwelling unit on a minimum 10, 000 square foot lot. The R- 1- 7
                           zoning district allows one dwelling unit on a minimum 7, 000 square foot lot. The
                           applicant has expressed interest in pursuing a two- lot subdivision( flag lot
                           development) for this property if the zone change is approved. Review and
                           consideration of a potential subdivision is not being considered at this time.
                           Exhibit F illustrates a proposed development scenario if the Zoning Map
                           amendment request were approved by the City Council.

                           This is the applicant' s second attempt to rezone the property. On February 26,
                           2020 the property owner applied for a zoning map amendment( File# 6Z20) to
                           rezone the property from R- I- 10 to R- 1- 5. On June 9, 2020 the Planning
                           Commission forwarded a negative recommendation to the City Council( 7- 0 vote).
                           The application was presented to the City Council as Ordinance 20- 14 on June 17,
                           2020 and was not approved( 4- 1 vote). Minutes for both the Planning Commission
                           meeting and the City Council meeting referenced above are included in Exhibits G
                           and H, respectively.


                           The current General Plan Map designation for the subject property is" low-density
                           residential," which allows residential densities up to six dwelling units per acre.




                                                  1
                              Single Family R- 1- 7 zoning and the addition of a flag lot on this property would
                              result in a density of 5. 5 units per acre, which is consistent with the density
                              recommendations of the General Plan. The existing zoning designations of
                              adjacent properties vary from R- 1- 5 immediately east, R- 1- 10 immediately north
                              and south, and R- 1- 20 immediately west.


                              A zoning change would establish the legal mechanism for the applicant to pursue
                              development approvals based on the underlying zoning. Future development
                              application( s) for this property are subject to compliance with adopted zoning,
                              subdivision, engineering, and other applicable standards.


                              The Planning Commission considered this application and held a public hearing on
                              May 24, 2022. The Planning Commission forwarded a negative recommendation
                              to the City Council( 7- 0 vote) based on neighborhood opposition( see summary of
                              public comments below) and concerns of establishing a precedent of building more
                              housing in this area.

                              While staff is comfortable with the rezone request as presented, a Zoning Map
                              Amendment is a discretionary legislative decision by the City Council. Below are
                              two draft motions for the City Council to consider— or the Council may craft their

                              own motion:


                                     Motion to Approve:

                                     I move to adopt Ordinance No. 22- 07, approving a Zoning Map
     STAFF RECOMMENDATION:           Amendmentfor the property located at 4645 S. 1175 W.from Single
                                     Family R- 1- 10 to Single Family R- 1- 7, as presented.


                                     Motion to Deny:

                                     I move to deny Ordinance No. 22-07, a Zoning Map Amendmentfor the
                                     property located at 4645 S. 1175 W.from Single Family R- 1- 10 to
                                     Single Family R- 1- 7.

        PLANNING COMMISSION
                              E] Approve         2 Deny
          RECOMMENDATION:

  PLANNING COMMISSION VOTE:   7- 0

                              Theresa Christensen( written comment): Has noticed improvements to the property
                              since the current owner purchased it and is in support of the rezone request.

                              Shelli Wiggins( Autumn Lane HOA): Concerned about additional traffic and safety
                              concerns with narrow width of 1175 West; how an approval would set precedent to
SUMMARY OF PUBLIC COMMENTS:
                              allow more homes in the area; and current condition of property and lack of
                              maintenance.



                              Larry Wood: Concerned about the potential size of a new home and to ensure it
                              would be consistent with existing R- 1- 10 zoning.




                                                      2
                     Eric Behunin: Concerned at how an approval would set a precedent for additional
                     development in the area and the current condition of the property and lack of
                     maintenance.


                     Becky Behunin: Area has large homes with large lots, does not want to set
                     precedent to redevelop existing properties.
                     Ron Breinholt: Concerned at current state of property, stating it was a fire hazard
                     and a source for rats. Also concerned about additional traffic on 1175 West.

ATTORNEY' S OFFICE   0 Yes          No

                     Ordinance No. 22- 07

                     Exhibit A: Vicinity Map
                     Exhibit B: Aerial Image of Property
                     Exhibit C: Current General Plan Map
    ATTACHMENTS:     Exhibit D: Current Zoning Map
                     Exhibit E: Property Photos( taken June 8, 2022)
                     Exhibit F: Concept Development Plan
                     Exhibit G: Planning Commission Packet( May 24, 2022)
                     Exhibit H: Planning Commission Minutes( June 9, 2020)
                     Exhibit I: City Council Minutes June 17, 2020




                                          3
                                     TAYLORSVILLE, UTAH
                                     ORDINANCE NO. 22- 07


 AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF TAYLORSVILLE APPROVING ZONING MAP
   AMENDMENT FROM" OPEN SPACE ( OS)" TO " MIXED-USE ( MU)" FOR 0. 640
                   ACRES OF PROPERTY LOCATED AT 2720 W. 6200 S.


       WHEREAS, the Taylorsville City Council( the" Council") met in regular session on April
6, 2022, to consider, among other things, approving a Zoning Map Amendment from " Single
Family ( R- 1- 10)" to " Single Family ( R- 1- 7)" for 0. 41 acres of property located at 4645 S. 1175
W.; and


       WHEREAS, pursuant to TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE Section 13. 35. 040, notice of a
public hearing before the City' s Planning Commission was published on the city' s official website
on May 11, 2022; and

       WHEREAS, the notice of a public hearing before the City' s Planning Commission was
also published on the Utah Public Notice Website on May 11, 2022; and

       WHEREAS, the notice of a public hearing before the City' s Planning Commission was
also mailed to each affected entity, as defined in Utah Code § 10- 9a- 103( 3),
                                                                      on May 13, 2022; and;

        WHEREAS, the City' s Planning Commission held a properly noticed public hearing on
the proposed amendments on May 24, 2022, during which the Planning Commission voted 7- 0 to
recommend that the Council deny the proposed Zoning Map amendment; and

        WHEREAS, although not required by City ordinances, the City Council heard courtesy
public comment on the proposed amendments during its regularly scheduled meeting on June 15,
2022; and


       WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Taylorsville to approve the proposed
amendments.




       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Taylorsville City Council that the
proposed Zoning Map amendment is hereby approved for the property described below:

Single- Family( R- 1- 7)
Contains approximately 0. 41 acres
Described as:


       BEG E 1111. 65 FT ( 1111. 44 FT BY DEED) & N 59.26 FT ( 59. 40 FT BY DEED)&
       N 1050' E 210. 83 FT&      E 30.55 FT FR SW COR SEC 2, T2S, R1 W, SLM; S
        1026' 19" W 95. 84 FT; S 87° 58' 27" E 192. 57 FT; N 1' 2825" E 52. 45 FT; N 2° 41' 02"
       W 10. 48 FT; N 2° 41' 02" W 17. 44 FT; N 991' 32" E 12. 83 FT; N 89' 44' 17" W 12. 98
       FT; N 1' 50' E 9. 58 FT; W 179. 45 FT TO BEG. ( INCLUDES PT LOT 15 &                 PT
       COMMON AREA OF AUTUMN LANE PUD)



                                                   4
       This ordinance, assigned Ordinance No. 22- 07, shall take effect as soon as it shall be
published or posted as required by law, deposited and recorded in the office of the City Recorder,
and accepted as required herein.




PASSED AND APPROVED THIS                         DAY OF                                  2022.


                                                 TAYLORSVILLE CITY COUNCIL


                                                 By:
                                                        Anna Barbieri, Council Chair


                                                 VOTING:


                                                 Meredith Harker                  Yea_     Nay
                                                 Ernest Burgess                   Yea      Nay
                                                 Robert Knudsen                   Yea      Nay
                                                 Curt Cochran                     Yea      Nay
                                                 Anna Barbieri                    Yea      Nay


       PRESENTED         to   Mayor    of   Taylorsville   for her   approval   this             day of
                          2022.




       APPROVED this                  day of                           2022.




                                                 Mayor Kristie S. Overson
ATTEST:




Jamie Brooks, Recorder



       DEPOSITED in the Recorder' s office this               day of                    32022.




       POSTED this            day of                         2022.




                                                    5
                                                                                                    41
                                                                                                              lit




                              e




                      01,




Created 5/ 11/ 2022


Information displayed on map is for                     e    •
                                                                                              a '        Rv

planning purposes only. Please contact
City vAth questions.
                       Feet
                                         r   -

                       275                       r.«C }~ .       _
                                                                     c•a   Ca   C   6 UCTBCe( W          Cx         r
Exhibit B
                                          Site Map: 4645 S. 1175 W.



                       r




                                                     i




                                    4




  Subject Property                               a
                                                                                                 t




 Created 5/ 11/ 2022


 Information displayed on map is for
 planning purposes only. Please contact
 City with questions.
 N                     Feet                                                                                                                       C
                                             t
                                                              Source   Es n   Digdal        e„       eo*Eye EarthstarG eggraphics. 6   ESPAu'bus`®"5,
       0                   25     50                                                   d th e GlS Usor C..,^ lTJ' 1 ty
                                                         aT   AeroGRIC    L.^:.
Exhibit C
                                              General Plan Map: 4645 S. 1175 W.



  i
                                                            Jo




                                              tDQIDQID E3




      Subject Property
                                                                                                     f
General Plan
      Business Park
      Regional CommercialCommercial

      Community Commercial
      Neighborhood Commercial

      High Density Mixed Use
      Mixed Use Commerical
m Professional Office
                                                                                                                                                            s,
      Low Density Residential

      Medium Density Residential
      High Density Residential

      Planned Community Development
                                                                                               1
      Estate Residential
      Parks and Open Space
                                                                 f
                                                                      ifr,,,,y
      School

      Utility

                                                                              j
 Created 5/ 27/ 2020

  Information displayed on map is for
 planning purposes only. Please contact
 City with questions.
  N                        Feet

                                                                     Source             DigitalGlo       GeoC,      arthstar Geographics, CNES/ Airbus..DS,_ SDA, USGS,, `
           0               275          550
                                                                     AroGRID, IGN,psi      am              U;    rCom    it
MSubjed Property
Zoning


                                                                                            I                       r                                      I        I
                                            f   -   1 .
                                                               I®      I,,/,'/,,                I,;/,,,
                                                                                                                f
                                                                                                                            I,;       I,'/    f,/,,            r,       I'    I• //-

             t

                                                                             r     I    /,         /        I           :         /          I,    /       I,       I,       I/




                                                                i; I,;/;     I;        if   i, I'         I;/;;/;;,;;,                            I;/;;        f;/,`
                                                                                                                                                                              j'; I




       R M- 12


M MH                                                                                                                                    f'/ ,/','/,,/                    r        r',   /




       RC- Regional Commercial                                                                                                                         A


       CC- Community Commercial
       BC-Boulevard Commercial
M LC- Limited Commercial
       NC Neighborhood•



       MU- Mixed Use
IIiI



                                                          j'
                                                                                   7                                3


                                                                                                                                                                              lc
   Information displayed on map is for
   planning purposes only. Please contact
                                     a:




           V                                                                   w
               to    fit,   ,   i.        s   1
                                                  k.•
                                                        r   ,•   r   -                       X   ,


                                                                         fee




                                                                         AIM




                                                                                                     I




Ar




                                                                                   wt!




                    r:




                                                                                         4




     op-
Front of property looking ea
             t


                 1 ~




                               Ni




       rp




                                    fir.
                                           3;.




                                                 3 cc. 33
                                                            s




                                       no,MOM
In front of property looking
south along 1175 West




                      Ulm




                               IL
            c
                D

Exhibit F       F

                                         ty
                                              I




                                                                                            PROPOSED HOSUE
                                                                                                SQIT




                                                                                                       LOT 1

                                                          pC^                                          7632 sqft
                      z
                      O        \ \                          O                 t




                      CL                                    In                        ti"




                                                                                                  Proposed

                      N    !                      LLLii               1
                                                                                                  Ganee

                                     E                                1
                                                                 V3




                                                                          E




                fi=                      =------------------                      -
Exhibit G




       Planning Commission Staff Report
                                       File # 3Z22
        Public Hearing and Recommendation to the City Council
        for a Zoning Map amendment for the property located at
                        4645 S. 1175 W. from R- 1- 10 to R- 1- 7




                                                 qu) CIT Y   OF




                                           TAYLORSVILLE

                         Department of Community Development

     Date:                                       May 19, 2022
     Meeting Date:                               May 24, 2022
     Agenda Item:                                Public hearing and recommendation to the City Council Zoning
                                                 Map amendment for the property located at 4645 S. 1175 W.
                                                 from R- 1- 10 to R- 1- 7

     Subject Property Address:                   4645 S. 1175 W.

     Applicant:                                  Alexander Bryner, on behalf of owner

     Applicant Agent:                            n/ a

     Author:                                     Jim Spung, AICP, Senior Planner
     Parcel#:                                    21- 02- 377- 006- 0000

     Applicable Ordinances:                      Including, but not limited to: Zoning Map, 13. 05, 13. 06
     Agenda Item#:                               4




        Attachments:
        Exhibit A: Zoning Map
        Exhibit B: General Plan Map
        Exhibit C: Subject Property
        Exhibit D: Vicinity Map
        Exhibit E: Concept Development Plan

        Exhibit F: Planning Commission Minutes ( June 9, 2020)
        Exhibit G: City Council Minutes ( June 17, 2020)
Exhibit G



       Summary:
       Alexander Bryner, on behalf of the property owner, is requesting a Zoning Map amendment
       to rezone the property at 4645 S. 1175 W. from R- 1- 10 to R- 1- 7. The R- 1- 10 zoning district
       is characterized as a residential district allowing one dwelling unit on a minimum 10, 000
       square foot lot. The R- 1- 7 zoning district allows one dwelling unit on a minimum 7, 000
       square foot lot. The applicant has expressed interest in pursuing a two-lot subdivision for
       this property if the map amendment is approved. Review and consideration of a potential
       subdivision is not being considered at this time; however, a conceptual subdivision plan is
       included in this report for reference only( Exhibit E).

       On February 26, 2020 the property owner applied for a zoning map amendment( File
        6Z20) to rezone the property from R- 1- 10 to R- 1- 5. On June 9, 2020 the Planning
       Commission forwarded a negative recommendation to the City Council( 7- 0 vote). The
       application was presented to the City Council as Ordinance 20- 14 on June 17, 2020 and was
       not approved. Rather than pursuing the R- 1- 5 zoning district, the applicant is now
       requesting consideration to rezone the property to R- 1- 7. Minutes for both the Planning
       Commission meeting and the City Council meeting are included in this report( Exhibits F
       and G, respectively).

       Site Description
       The subject property is approximately 17,860 square feet( 0. 41 acres) and currently
       includes a single- family dwelling originally constructed in 1970 with a building footprint of
       approximately 1, 250 square feet. The lot also includes two detached accessory structures,
       the first approximately 50 square feet and the second approximately 1, 250 square feet in
       size. Surrounding zoning designations are as follows:

        North                      South                   East                   West
        R- 1- 10                  I R- 1- 10               R- 1- 5                R- 1- 20



       General Plan Analysis
       The Proposed Land Use Map in the General Plan sets the foundation for all land uses within
       the City of Taylorsville. The land use plan identifies general land use classifications and in
       some cases the intensity within the classification. Each land use classification on the
       Proposed Land Use Map corresponds with compatible classifications on the official
       Taylorsville Zoning Map.

       The subject property is designated as" Low Density Residential" on the Proposed Land Use
       Map. The General Plan includes the following statement describing the intent of the Low
       Density Residential designation ( pg 3- 4):

                   Low Density Residential( LDR) districts are residential areas that contain
                   existing or proposed residential developments less than 6 dwelling units per
                   acre( excluding ER districts). Properties that are assigned the LDR
                   classification are generally( but not necessarily limited to) neighborhoods
                   consisting ofsingle family dwellings."

       The applicant's Zoning Map amendment request is consistent with the City's General Plan
       and would not allow for the creation of residential densities in excess of six dwelling units
       per acre. A 7, 000 square foot minimum lot size equates to a density of approximately 6
Exhibit G


       dwelling units per acre [ 43, 560 sqft_ 7, 000 sqft= 6 units/ acre]. The subject property is
       approximately 0.41 acres in size and, with approval of a flag lot subdivision, could
       accommodate two dwelling units, resulting in a density of 5. 5 units per acre. This is
       consistent with the density recommendations of the City's General Plan.

       Zoning Code Analysis
       The City Council may consider a proposed Zoning Map amendment and may adopt or reject
       the amendment as it deems appropriate, in accordance with Section 13. 05. 030( B)( 2) of the
       Taylorsville Land Development Code ( LDC). Additionally, the City Council may amend the
       Zoning Map consistent with the purposes set forth in the LDC, the General Plan, and the
       Utah Land Use Development and Management Act( Section 13. 05. 010). The requested
       Zoning Map amendment is consistent with the City's General Plan, as described earlier in
       this report.



       Public Comment
       A public notice was sent to all affected entities and residents within 300 feet of the property
       on May 13, 2022. Additionally, a notice was published on the City' s website and on the State
       Website on May 13, 2022. As of May 19, staff has not received any public comments related
       to this application.



       Findings
            1.   This application was initiated by Alexander Bryner, on behalf of the property owner.
            2.   The applicant is requesting a Zoning Map amendment to rezone the property at
                 4645 S. 1175 W. ( parcel 21- 02- 377- 006- 0000) from R- 1- 10 to R- 1- 7.
            3.   The applicant has expressed interest in subdividing the property into two
                 residential lots.
            4.   The subject property is within the" Low Density Residential" designation on the
                 City's General Plan Proposed Land Use Map.
            S.   The proposed Zoning Map amendment is consistent with the adopted General Plan.
            6.   The City Council is the decision- making authority for a Zoning Map amendment
                 request and may adopt or reject the amendment as it deems appropriate pursuant to
                 Section 13. 05. 030 and other applicable sections of the Taylorsville Land Development
                 Code.



       Conditions
       Staff does not recommend that additional conditions be considered with this request.


       Staff Recommendation
       Staff recommends the Planning Commission send a positive recommendation to the City
       Council to amend the Zoning Map for the property at 4645 S. 1175 W. from R- 1- 10 to R- 1- 7,
       based on the Findings as outlined in this Staff Report.


       Possible Motion
       I move that we send a positive recommendation to the City Council for File# 3Z22 to amend
       the Zoning Map for the property at 4645 S. 1175 W. (parcel# 21- 02- 377- 006- 0000) from R-

       1- 10 to R- 1- 7, based on the Findings as outlined in this Staff Report.
Exhibit H
   Page 1 of 10



                                                            City of Taylorsville
                                                   Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
                                                                      June 9, 2020
                                       Pre- meeting— 6: 30 p. m. — Regular Session —7: 00 p. m.
                                              2600 West Taylorsville Blvd —Council Chambers



   Attendance:


   Planninq Commission                                                 Community Development Staff
   Marc McElreath— Chair                                               Wayne Harper- Director
   Kent Burggraaf- Vice Chair                                          Jim Spung— Senior Planner
   Don Quigley                                                         Karyn Kerdolff- GIS Planner
   Anna Barbieri                                                       Stephanie Shelman— Deputy City Attorney( Remote)
   Lynette Wendel                                                      Jean Gallegos— Admin Assistant/ Recorder
   David Wright
   Gordon Willardson
   Don                  Alternate)

    IC= I


   PRESENT: Scott Brody, Eric Behunin, Becky Behunin, Lynda Battenfield, Zack Battenfield, Ron Breinholt, Ray Wood.

                                                            BRIEFING SESSION— 6: 30 P. M.

                                                                                UA
   1.            The briefing session to review the Agenda was conducted by Mr. Jim Spunq. The Agenda consisted of a site
                 plan review for an exception request for placement of a building for Dutch Brothers Coffee at 3883 W 5400 S
                 and a zoning map amendment for property at 4645 S 1175 W from R- 1- 10 to R- 1- 5. Ms. Kerdolff explained
                 Staffs position regarding the request from Dutch Brothers Coffee and Mr. Spunq explained the applicant' s
                 reasoning for requesting the zoning map amendment.


                                                            REGULAR SESSION— 7: 00 P. M.

                                                                    U
                                                                    CONSENT AGENDA


   2.            Review/Approval of the Minutes for April 14, 2020.
                 MOTION: Commissioner Burggraaf—I will make a motion to approve the Minutes for April 14, 2020 as
                 presented.

                 SECOND: Commissioner Willardson

                 VOTE: All Commissioners present voted in favor. Motion passes unanimously.                        IR
                                                                    SITE PLAN


        3. 29C20- Consideration of a Request for an Exception for the Placement of the Building on the Site
            as    Outlined in Taylorsville Municipal Code 3. 23. 170 ( C). (                  Katyn Kerdolff/GIS Planner)




                 3. 1   Ms. Kerdolf       presented    this item.   U     She advised the engineering team for this proposal came in on
                        March 12, 2020 for review. After that discussion, the engineering team attempted to create a site plan with
                        the building along the public street in order to satisfy the City' s preference that drive-through lanes not be
                        placed between the building and the street. The applicant informed the Development Director that due to
                        site   restrictions   in Section 13. 23. 170( C) that   could   not   be   accommodated.    Per Code, placement of the

                        building beyond the required setback lines is discouraged and must be specifically approved by the
                        Planning Commission if no other viable alternative exists( Ord 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012). The proposed building is
                        set    back further than the 25- foot front setback.         For the site plan to be approved, the proposed setback
                        must specifically be approved by the Planning Commission. As stated in Code, the Planning Commission


   City of Taylorsville
   Planning Commission Minutes
   June 9, 2020
Exhibit H
   Page 2 of 10


                  can grant an exception     if" no other viable alternative exists." The applicant provided several site constraints
                  and requested to appear before the Planning Commission to obtain approval for the location of the
                  proposed building. The applicant proposes to have a much smaller building than the previous occupant
                   Arctic Circle) but intends to have the same layout as currently exists, maintaining the same traffic flow.
                  They will need an exception for the conditional use.

                      3. 1. 1   If the proposed building was moved to be adjacent to the public street, the clients exiting the
                                drive-thru would have a difficult time leaving the property. If the drive- thru ran west to east,
                                clients would have to cross a lane of incoming traffic from one of the shopping center' s
                                egresses/ ingresses     to   exit   the property.    If the traffic in the drive-thru travel east to west,
                                clients would not have to cross any incoming traffic. The building could not be placed too far
                                to the west as this would block client' s view when exiting the drive-thru.

                      3. 1. 2   The site is above the grade of 5400 South. If the building was placed adjacent to the public
                                street it would not be at grade but above it.             The grade of the site diminishes the effect of
                                placing the building near the public street. It does not allow for easier pedestrian access or
                                increase the visual aesthetics of the streetscape, as drivers will be at grade with the retaining
                                wall.



                      3. 1. 3   The     proposed project exceeds       the   required   queuing spaces specified I Code.    However, the
                                applicant has expressed that the proposed layout is the only configuration that meets Dutch
                                Brothers Coffee internal requirements.


                      3. 1. 4   Staff understands the constraints placed on the applicant by the unique conditions found on
                                this site and is disappointed that a compromise could not be found that created a viable project
                                for the applicant and meets the building placement requirement.    Staff requests that an
                                exception be granted with caution, as to not promote setting buildings away from public
                                streets.



                      3. 1. 5   Ms. Kerdolff showed an image of what the proposed structure would look like through
                                examples of other similar structures done by Dutch Brothers in other sites throughout the
                                Country.

           3. 2   FINDINGS:
                      3. 2. 1   This application was initiated by John Baker.
                      3. 2. 2   Applicant has    applied     for an   administrative conditional   use.   For approval, the applicant will
                                need Planning Commission to approve building being beyond 25 feet front setback.
                      3. 2. 3   The proposed building is an 862 square foot coffee kiosk, with no interior dining space.
                      3. 2. 4   This would be a completely new structure, replacing the existing Arctic Circle building.
                      3. 2. 5   There is one service window proposed.
                      3. 2. 6   Applicant claims several site constraints prohibit them from meeting the building placement
                                requirement.   These include: ( a) Grading and topographical issues. ( b) The location of
                                egress and ingress to the shopping center.
                      3. 2. 7   Application is   not   compliant with        Section 13. 23. 170( C), which requires buildings to not be
                                setback beyond the required setbacks.


           3. 3 STAFF RECOMMENDATION: Staff recommends that the Planning Commission approves the placement of
                the building beyond the setback for the proposed building at 3883 West 5400 South.

           3. 4 DISCUSSION:

                      3. 4. 1   Commissioner Burqqraaf                II asked if there was anything else in the ordinance that
                                defines " viable    alternative".      Ms.     Kerdolff said   there   were   none   that she could   find.
                                Commissioner Burqqraaf advised that this might be an area in the ordinance that needs to
                                be revisited.    Since there is no definition for a viable alternative, there is no set standard for
                                approval and     in Section C it says that setback lines are discouraged. Essentially placing a
                                building beyond those setback lines is discouraged. He wanted to know if Staff had any
                                further information as far as a viable alternative and finding there was none suggested looking
                                at the ordinance. Thattthge Commission' s hands may be tied because the ordinance is very
                                                             I4
                                vague on this matter.               Commissioner Barbieri said what she read in Code was that the




   City of Taylorsville
   Planning Commission Minutes
   June 9, 2020
Exhibit H
   Page 3 of 10


                            Planning Commission can grant an exception if there are no other viable alternatives.                     She
                            expressed she would be interested to see the placement of the building and if there truly is no
                            other viable    alternative.    Commissioner Burggraaf said his point is what the standard for
                            viable" is. That is where he felt the Commission' s hands may be a little bit tied. Essentially
                            what is being said is it is discoura ed but the language is not very strongly worded and could
                            be perceived in different ways.                     Commissioner Willardson said that there are three
                            accesses out of this site. One is around the back side and go out west by the Keams Post
                            Office, the other two ways are heading east. That is the only choices. He did not feel there
                            was a conflict as to whether it is      in the front or the back to access that.        Q

           3. 5   Commissioner McElreath asked to hear from the applicant and was informed he was attending
                  remote.    Initially the applicant could not be heard due to technical difficulties.              IR      Eventually the
                  connection was made        to Mr. John Baker, who             IR then thanked the Commission for giving him the
                  time this evening to speak.       =        He is one of the partners who owns the property, the other partner
                  is Dean Spun ( who was also on the phone).              They have owned the property for three or four years and
                  purchased      it with a very specific intent     and   that project didn' t pan
                                                                                              So, they have been actively
                                                                                                        out.

                  trying to market the property for the last several years.                  The site has several physical characteristics
                  which make development difficult. There were a couple of different projects come close to working out
                  but in the end did not and all of them would have re- used the existing building and structure out there.
                  What excited them about Dutch Brothers, in addition to it being a very popular brand, is that they
                  planned to make the building and site much better than previous options having been considered.
                  There were also a team of Dutch Brothers designers on the phone call tonight. Mr. Baker asked them
                  torespond.  One identified himself as Nick Wecker, from the architectural team and was on the call.
                  Another person responding said he was Dustin Hanlon, with the architectural team along with Nick.
                  Mr. Baker advised he would like the Dutch Brothers team to answer any questions the Commissioners
                  may have, especially      with   regard   to   circulation    and   site   layout.   He said that in working with Dutch
                  Brothers from the business side, unfortunately all of the iterations that they tried using the internal drive
                  thru lane and wrapping the traffic differently was not acceptable for Dutch Brothers. It is a legitimate
                  question for them to be able to walk you through the iterations that they attempted but at the end of the
                  d    senior management at Dutch Brothers said they were sorry, but they could not accommodate that.
                        His opinion was that if they do not get the exception, they will pass on the project. There are
                  topographical constraints involved with the property and he felt they have put forward the best
                  alternative.    That he appreciates the Code and Design Standards the City has but suggested the
                  excellent new project would fully compensate. The company really wants to locate in Taylorsville and is
                  very customer focused but will need the exception granted by the Planning Commission in order to do
                  so. He then turned the time over to Mr. Wecker.

           3. 6   Nick Wecker thanked the Commission for the time to be heard this evening.                        He pointed out that the

                  building location was selected after careful consideration of alternatives. Starting with trying to meet the
                  building setbacks that are encouraged in the Code, they believe the site plan presented today is the
                  best and most suitable option for Dutch Brothers with special consideration for integration with the
                  shopping center, internal site flow within the center and within the drive thru then also special
                  consideration to the grade of the site in relationship to the street. He pointed out that site is presently 6'
                  above the street grade and there presently is a retaining wall in place along the frontage that is not
                  within the right of way. That change in grade definitely impacts the ability to incorporate the traditional
                  pedestrian- oriented    design   measures      that   would   be typically encouraged.        Just because the building
                  sits above the level of the street they would be unable to incorporate a direct pedestrian access there
                  that is typically seen. Their design does incorporate pedestrian access from the northwest corner of the
                  property and provides direct access to a covered patio area with separate service window for
                  pedestrians which provides protection for the pedestrians on the site. In regard to compatibility with the
                  shopping center, this design minimizes the potential for vehicle spill- over into the abutting property by
                  maximizing the stacking space that is located internal to the site. All stacking is internal to the site and
                  not along the street. This is also not inconsistent with the nearby development, including a Jimmy
                  John' s that was constructed in the same center in 2014.                     That also does not meet the 25' setback.

                   GLastly,    he showed the building design elevations which he felt were aesthetically pleasing and
                  eliminated the current eyesore created by the vacant Arctic Circle building. He asked if there were any
                  questions.



   City of Taylorsville
   Planning Commission Minutes
   June 9, 2020
Exhibit H
   Page 4 of 10




                  3. 6. 1     Commissioner Quigley, while looking at the site plan commented that he would like to hear
                              more detail about the landscaping that would be put between 5400 South and the building. He
                              asked if it would all be grass, or include trees, etc. That he had looked at the images from their
                              Las Vegas store which did include trees.


                  3. 6. 2     Mr. Wecker     advised   they are proposing all new landscaping.             He advised that some of the
                              previously examples of other stores are outdated. They now have different building designers.
                              The previous examples were shown because of time constraints in needing to show something
                              as quickly as possible. In terms of landscaping, they will meet or exceed Code requirements,
                              which will include street trees and shrubs on the comer. There was definitely an opportunity to
                              have enhanced landscape design there, especially on what would be the northeast corner.             The
                              landscape design would be more enhanced than what was shown in the example images.
                              Commissioner Quigley said that meant a combination of plantings and rock then. Mr. Wecker
                              said yes, rocks, trees and shrubs that will meet or exceed the Code requirements, particularly for
                              the northeast corner where there is the opportunity to make it a nice, welcoming entrance.         U
                  3. 6. 3    Commissioner Quigley asked for the percentages for walk- up business and drive- thru as done
                             by them, at which time the Site Acquisition Manager, Linda Morris, said the business is
                             predominately drive-thru with some walk- up. They want to accommodate families and be able to
                             have a place where they can convene. Right now due to Covid- 19, the patio areas are closed in
                             many areas. The reason for the single sidewalk up window was that they could still service
                             people who want to get out of the cars and take a moment. Then the ones that want quick service
                             can still utilize the drive-thru. They are very conscious of speed, quality and service and want to
                             make sure that they are able to let people in the door and then let them out and the window just
                             offers an extra way to get that attention and experience. She did not have the exact numbers in
                             front of her but felt it was 25% or less is for the walk- up window because their business is

                             predominately drive- thru.     a
                  3. 6. 4   Commissioner Wright           8 said that what he has heard is that there are no alternative plans.
                            That this is the best   plan    the    applicants   can   come   up   with.   Based on that assumption he
                            expressed curiosity if it had ever been considered to possibly have less parking at the site. Josh
                            Hanlan ( architect)   said he was part of the initial design of the site and explained the changes
                            made to allow better flow. There is the need for employee parking as well as being able to provide
                            parking for the customers and patrons. This will also allow for a good route to people facilitating
                            the site for trash pick- up, while keeping them away from the drive- thru lane.   Commissioner
                            Wright said he   was    not   sure    that answered his question.        What he wanted to know is if less
                            parking was considered. Mr. Hanlan said that if they provide less parking it doesn' t allow enough
                            parking for both employees and patrons at the site. They are now at the bare minimum. That
                            limits them down to about six cars thru the window.


                  3. 6. 5   Ms. Chmielik said from an operational standpoint at shift change there could be up to eight or ten
                            employees on site. What is different about this company is they also employ interior coffee makers
                             brewisters). They also don' t do a speaker box system but utilize runners. In order to maintain a
                            high- quality experience, they change out each area of work every 15 to 20 minutes to make sure
                            their people are giving the best service in each of those areas. In answer to the parking question,
                            they don' t want to have their staff have to look for parking elsewhere, which would start off their
                            shift in the wrong manner. They want to allow them to have plenty of parking while still maintaining
                            the walk- up window and option for the customers.           8
                  3. 6. 6   Commissioner Wendel thanked the applicants for commenting on how important the customer
                            experience is to them. She added that the Planning Commissioners also feel that way about the
                            City residents. That is why she has concerns about using that grade as reason for not bringing the
                            building forward. In her five years as a Planning Commissioner she has seen a dramatic difference
                            in what the environment is when a building is brought to the sidewalk. Regardless if somebody is
                            walking right at that same grade level or not, it does give the street experience that is looked for in
                            having the building moved forward. She did not enjoy the outdoor seating area in restaurants
                            where it is placed in close proximity to the drive-thru. She also is concerned with the customer



   City of Taylorsville
   Planning Commission Minutes
   June 9, 2020
Exhibit H
   Page 5 of 10


                            experience, concerned with the citizen experience and the street experience while driving down the
                            street.    She acknowledged that the back space to the south on this site will require a significant
                            amount of re- investment and planning as a whole. She said the Commission has not yet seen the
                            revision   to the   master plan    regarding that entire   area.   She expressed concern about trying to
                            make a decision on one kiosk business for a property that is that large. She addressed the parking
                            saying that as a whole everyone is slaving to the automobile with the drive-thru and parking as
                            opposed     to the actual customer.       IR
                  3. 6. 7   Ms. Chmielik said they are very excited about coming to Taylorsville and have been doing this
                            since 1992. That the kiosk is not a portable building but is a very pretty building. With that being
                            said they have also opened company-wide about 400 stands and have learned a lot through that
                            time about what works best for them operationally but also what works best for the community.
                            One different thing about their business is people don' t come to Dutch Brothers with the intent of
                            having a nice quiet coffee experience. It is about interaction, about social time, so having the
                            window closed to the brewisters and a small patio area, is not an invitation for people to stay
                            around for long periods of time like typical coffee shops. They are asking them to come in after
                            Covid- 19 passes for a more interpersonal experience. The other thing about the environment thing
                            for pedestrians, she did feel the window makes customers have a really inviting and safe space
                            and they will also be very open to having them come, however, with Covid- 19 they have seen that
                            they are one of the only essential businesses still working because of the drive- thru. So, because
                            they are able to offer a quick service drive-thru distancing window, she felt like the environment is
                            definitely going to change pro- Covid- 19 and they are trying to accommodate both scenarios. There
                            will be bicycle racks and if there are other suggestions along that line they would be happy to take
                            those into consideration as well.



                  3. 6. 8   Commissioner Barbieri             8 was concerned that the parking faces both of the streets and the
                            cars face the street. More importantly too, the drive around goes right across the pedestrian walk-
                            way, so unless she is seeing that incorrectly, that walkway comes right up, and people will be
                            driving around the corner to leave as there are pedestrians walking up to the kiosk. She felt that
                            was not the best way to do that. There are other ways to situate the building to meet the needs of
                            the City, the needs of a walkable place as well as the aesthetics. That eventually this has potential
                            to have multi- use with residential, large commercial, small commercial, etc., but one of the main
                            corners has the parking facing both streets. The drive around goes right across the pedestrian
                            walkway.   Eventually, this has potential but traffic going around the building does not meet the
                            purpose of the area. There might be some other ways to accommodate Dutch Brothers and make
                            it profitable for them.


                  3. 6. 9   Commissioner Wright            Q said that based on what the applicants say that this is the best for
                             them", the challenge for the City is it pulls it away from the setback and away from walkability.
                            This is not a walkable place.         U        If they stay with the walkability idea, they could potentially
                            rather    than   bringing the whole building forward, bring just part of the building forward.          N
                            He suggested having a low wall that mimics part of the building. Right now they have a stick stone
                            on it a veneer type element. He suggested bringing that wall forward to continue the idea that the
                            architecture is closer to the walk. Commissioner Barbieri asked if that would be on both 5400
                            South as well as the ingress/ egress on the east side of the building. Commissioner Wright said
                            that was a good question and he was not sure of the solidified idea on what that would be. He felt
                            that on the ingress/ egress from 5400 South it might be important to have the architecture next to
                            5400 South. He advised he was just trying to give some ideas. He felt the biggest concern was
                            the walkability, that sets the precedent for the other areas along there if it allowed to be back then
                            that important opportunity would be lost. He felt everyone wants it to be walkable. Right now this
                            isn' t really a walkable area along 5400 South. There is the wall that is right next to 5400 South,
                            wherein nothing can be done with that because it is assumed to be a UDOT wall. He asked the
                            applicant to step back a little bit and make a more inviting space that has some architectural
                            feature up next to the wall that brings it a little bit closer in that fashion. He made clear he was not
                            talking about a high wall but rather keeping with the lower wall. That gives the sense that it is really
                            a part of the street and architecture ofthebuilding. Commissioner Barbieri said the whole feeling
                            is that it is just one big parking lot. U       Another lane of traffic so to speak on 5400 South.


   City of Taylorsville
   Planning Commission Minutes
   June 9, 2020
Exhibit H
   Page 6 of 10


                               Commissioner Wright said that is what he was thinking about by putting the low wall in front of
                               that traffic lane.          Commissioner Barbieri added that would buffer how much traffic was visible.
                               Commissioner Wright advised there would be the UDOT wall, step back a little bit with some
                               landscape area, have an architectural wall, step back from that a little bit and then there would be
                               the drive turn radiusand the building itself. It brings the architecture closer. Commissioner
                               Barbieri said then what would be done with the sidewalk that comes right up through the drive-
                               thru.     Commissioner Wright said that would                        need         to be   modified.    Right now it is right in the
                               middle        of   the landscaped         area, which      helps from         a   grading   standpoint.      If it were brought back
                               behind the wall, that would give the opportunity to have a landscape area in front of it to soften it a
                               bit. Then to the next low wall, then to the sidewalk that comes right in.                                   Another concern he had
                               with this is the access on the site plan he is not really sure how the sidewalk comes up in and
                               attaches to the sidewalk along 5400 South. They might look at that connection a little closer to tie
                               that together better. Not only come up in but perhaps go back down. That may be pushing the
                               issue     a    little bit there.          He was just trying to work with the ideas submitted and bring the
                               architectural                      bit
                                                     by doing something else.
                                                     out    a                                                        A
                                                                                            Commissioner Burggraaf and
                               Commissioner Quigley said they would like to reserve their discussion time until after the public
                               hearing.

                  3. 6. 9      Commissioner McElreath said that since the applicant had said there were two windows, one
                               pedestrian and one vehicular, he wanted to know how the pedestrians would be able to access
                               their window and if there was a pedestrian walkway proposed. Mr. Harlan ( consulting engineer),
                               addressed that saying the pedestrian access would tie in just to the right of the existing wall, just
                               outside the limits of the driveway. It would work its' way around and then up to the site itself.
                               Commissioner McElreath asked if it would cross over the drive-thru lane. Mr. Harlan said that
                               was correct but that there would be signage alerting the drivers about the pedestrian crossing.
                               Q
         3. 7   Commissioner McElreath opened the public hearing and since there was no response for comment nor
                receipt by Staff of written comments, closed the public hearing and opened the meeting for discussion by the
                Commissioners or a motion.                   )


         3. 8   DISCUSSION:

                                                                                 gg
                     3. 8. 1     Commissioner Burqqraaf IJ had a question for the legal department( who was on a remote
                                 connection).            He said in looking at the ordinance there is not a clear prohibition about moving this
                                 back. It states placement of the building beyond the required setback line is discouraged and
                                 must be specifically approved by the Planning Commission if no other viable alternative exists.
                                 He felt that this portion of the Code needs to be revisited to fix it. This does not seem to have a
                                 direct prohibition and appears to give the Commission discretion, which in his mind seemed
                                 problematic legally because this is not an ordinance change, not a zone change, and in mind not
                                 a     legislative but is an administrative decision.                    He asked for a legal opinion astowhether the

                                 Commission actually has the ability to do anything other than give approval.                                   IJ Ms. Shelman
                                  Deputy City Attorney), said the language is intentionally broad to give a little leeway in decisions
                                 if there is        no   viable    alternative.        It is   meant    to   allow   a   little " wiggle   room".   Commissioner
                                 Burqqraaf then asked who sets the standard for" viable" because the applicant has explained
                                 that it is not economically viable to switch it from what they have. Ms. Shelman said that is a
                                 question where the City might want to define the rule a little more but it is probably not going to
                                 be defined specifically in order to keep some flexibility in the ordinance. She said that the legal
                                 department   can look at it.   Commissioner Burqqraaf said he recognizes that there can be
                                 aspirations for different language but that will come after this applicant is considered. Another
                                 point he wanted to make is he looked at Jimmy Johns which is right next door to this and noted
                                 that their setback is
                                                     even further than what is being proposed in this application.
                                                                                                                    He felt they
                                 have an appealing street facing side to their building, wherein there is a patio and landscaping
                                 that is in between the                 patio   and   the drive- thru   area.       He felt that gives some comfort to those
                                 sitting on the patio as opposed to sitting right next to the vehicles that are driving through.                                He
                                 said he was not sure how long Jimmy Johns had been there but guessed it was built in about
                                 2014 and was approved that way. He said he understood why they wanted it that far back was
                                 probably because of the number of traffic lanes close by and wanting to provide a nice
                                 atmosphere to those sitting on the patio. This might be an experience where walkability needs to
                                 be buffered also to make the pedestrian traffic feel more comfortable about actually sitting down
   City of Taylorsville
   Planning Commission Minutes
   June 9, 2020
Exhibit H
   Page 7 of 10


                              and eating. He was concerned about the " viable" language and did not feel there were clearly
                              defined parameters for determining whether it is or isn' t viable. He felt the " wiggle room" was a
                              dangerous area that if the Commission is saying no at this stage would cause issues for the City.
                               For those reasons he was inclined to say that what they are proposing looks feasible especially
                              when comparing it to the Jimmy Johns right next door. Also, in comparison to the rest of that
                              building site that is not looking great and felt this was a way to start improving it.         LI


                  3. 8. 2     Commissioner Quigley said he agrees with Commissioner Burggraaf's comments and had no
                              problem voting in favor of the application.

                  3. 8. 3     Commissioner Barbieri asked how large the Arctic Circle building was in comparison to this
                              kiosk and was informed by Mr. Spung that the kiosk is about half the size. She said, at least
                              Jimmy John' s has landscaping against the street and it doesn' t look so overwhelming to walk
                              past there. There are seven lanes of traffic on one side and a drive-thru on the other side of the
                              sidewalk which makes it a little daunting. Commissioner Wendel asked if she meant by that it
                              could be brought back further. Commissioner Barbieri said she still doesn' t understand why
                              with such a small footprint of 800 square feet, there could not be a way to make it financially
                              profitable for Dutch Brothers and keep the traffic off the sidewalk out front on 5400 South.

                  3. 8. 4     Commissioner Wendel               R expressed her concern that anytime the Commission is not fully
                              supportive of the walkability concept, it is being remiss. It is the Commission' s responsibility to
                              make sure to provide safe walkable space. Just because something is not ideal at this time,
                              doesn' t mean that is not the objective to fix that. Commissioner Wendel said that during her
                              daily drive time in the City she always sees pedestrians walk in this area, even as unsafe and
                              unattractive    as   it is.    She plans to put out a plea to this business owner to take note of
                              Commissioner Wright' s suggestions and help the Commission in that way to mitigate should this
                              be approved as to what can be done to define a good compromising position from both the
                              streetscape view, the pedestrian experience and supporting the objective to always maximize
                              the opportunity in the City. The feed- back content offered by the Commissioners is because
                              they all live here, understand it, and really want the applicant to be successful.           IR

           3. 9     APPLICANT RESPONSE: Mr. John Baker advised that the comments about trying to buffer and
                    maintain more walkability are viable with the landscape area between the drive-thru and the sidewalk.
                    He also liked the idea to stair step landscape features IJ because that is very attractive, whether it is
                    done with shrubbery, plants, or as suggested landscape walls that tie the site back together. That can
                    be done very attractively. He advised he has enjoyed listening to the dialog and focus of pedestrian
                    orientation       here.   He advised he totally understands that and as a consumer he would especially
                    welcome       that type of design.   He focused on the fact that there is really a drop off and discourages
                    desirable pedestrian activity. That is particularly true on this side of the street going towards Bangerter
                    Highway and all the improvements that way. He asked that Staff display the aerial image of that area.
                    He said there is transitioning there from Jimmy John' s on a very hard surface that is not a real
                    welcoming         environment and       then to   cross   a   very scary intersection to   continue eastbound.   That is
                    where this situation is different than if it were even on the other side of the street where there is not the
                    same kind of topography and retaining walls, and all the necessary improvements that have been put in
                    there. An appealing design here will go a long way to improve the aesthetics as people are walking but
                    he did    honestly feel there would be as much foot traffic as there would be in other areas. The
                               not

                    topography is a big thing for him as a land- owner. It is very real and he appreciates what the
                    Commissioners are saying and he felt there was room to add some of the elements that have been
                    suggested this evening and make some continuity between the building and the street. He advised they
                    would be willing to look at that idea.

                            3. 9. 1       Commissioner Burggraaf asked if there would be an issue if they extended that
                                          current walkway/ pedestrian access all the way through the north side of the property
                                          line. His thought was that perhaps some people might opt to walk closer to the business

                                          as opposed  to talking right against the street.   IJ He felt that would give the business
                                          better exposure for foot traffic but also gives a nice buffer for pedestrians who don' t want
                                          to walk right along 5400 South. There may be feasibility in extending the
                                          sidewalk/ pedestrian access all the way along 5400 South.

   City of Taylorsville
   Planning Commission Minutes
   June 9, 2020
Exhibit H
   Page 8 of 10




                                     3. 9. 2     Commissioner Wendel added that for many people who have greater economic
                                                 means, do not rely on the functionality to walk places. For that community there is a lot
                                                 of pedestrian and public transportation bound people, so this is not just about making it
                                                 attractive for walkers but saying that there are walkers that need to have this more
                                                 attractive      and   safer.     Commissioner McElreath added that he is supportive of this
                                                 application and felt there have been good ideas thrown out by the Commissioners as
                                                 well. He felt this will help that shopping center out and hopefully can spur other things to
                                                 start   happening there as well.          IR

       3. 10      MOTION:   Commissioner Quigley                            IR
                                                          I move that we approve File # 29C20 for the placement of
                  Dutch Brothers Coffee kiosk beyond the setback based on the Findings in 1- 6 with provisions stated
                  by Staff, with an addition that we would require that sidewalk to continue all the way across the
                  frontage of the property as has been suggested in our comments tonight and that also a
                  recommendation that Staff would work with the architects to implement some of the architectural
                  designs that were discussed tonight in the elevation moving from 5400 South up to the building,
                  giving more of a steps in bringing the building as Commissioner Wright suggested. I would recognize
                  that we would need to reflect that to the Minutes of this meeting for Staff to understand that but I think
                  we    are   on     that    page.   I hope that type of a           motion     is   not   too wordy.   Commissioner Barbieri — I am

                  writing.     Commissioner Burqqraaf -                     That is what we call speaking motion. Commissioner Barbieri —
                  Adding that the sidewalk will continue east to the intersection and then have full landscaping on both
                  the   north      and south sides          ofthe walkway. Commissioner Quigley — That is correct.                           Commissioner
                  Burqqraaf —            Mr.    Chair.      Commissioner McElreath — Commissioner Burggraaf.                                 Commissioner
                  Burqqraaf-           This isn' t our decision, isn' t a conditional              use permit. Commissioner Quigley — No they
                  are recommendations.                   Commissioner Burqqraaf-              I think as long as they are recommendations and
                  not contingent, it is okay.
                  SECOND:            Commissioner Burqqraaf
                  ROLL CALL VOTE:                    Commissioner Quigley — AYE, Commissioner Wright — AYE,                                  Commissioner
                  Barbieri — AYE,              Commissioner McElreath — AYE, Commissioner Burqqraaf — AYE, Commissioner
                  Wendel— AYE, Commissioner Willardson— AYE.                               Motion passes unanimously.


          4. 6Z20- Recommendation to the City Council for a Zoning Map Amendment for Property at 4645
          South 1175 West from R- 1- 10 to R- 1- 5. (                         Jim Spung/ Senior Planner)


                                                                       ZONING MAP AMENDMENT



               4. 1   Mr. Spunq        presented     this item.        IJ       Svetlana Bryner is requesting a zoning map amendment to rezone
                      her property        at   4645 South        1175 West from R- 1- 10 to R- 1- 5.      The property is 16, 988 square feet and
                      currently includes a single- family dwelling originally constructed in 1970 with a building footprint of
                      approximately 1, 250 square feet. The lot also includes two detached accessory structures, the first one is
                      approximately 50           square    feet   and   the     second   approximately 1, 250     square   feet in   size.   The applicant' s
                      zoning map amendment request is consistent with the City' s General Plan and would not allow for the
                      creation of residential densities in excess of six dwelling units per acre. The applicant intends to subdivide
                      in the future.


               4. 2   FINDINGS:
                           4. 2. 1       This application was initiated by Svetlana Bryner, property owner.
                           4. 2. 2       The applicant is requesting a zoning map amendment to rezone the property at 4645 South
                                            1175 West( Parcel 21- 02- 377- 006- 0000) from R- 1- 10 to R- 1- 5.
                           4. 2. 3       The applicant has expressed interest in subdividing the property into two residential lots.
                           4. 2. 4       The subject property is within the " Low Density Residential" designation on the City' s General
                                         Plan Proposed Land Use Map.
                           4. 2. 5       The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with the adopted General Plan.
                           4. 2. 6       The City Council is the decision- making authority for a zoning map amendment request and
                                         may adopt or reject the amendment as it deems appropriate pursuant to Section 13. 05. 030
                                         and other applicable sections of the Taylorsville City Code.




   City of Taylorsville
   Planning Commission Minutes
   June 9, 2020
Exhibit H
   Page 9 of 10


            4. 3      STAFF     RECOMMENDATION:               Staff recommends the Planning Commission sends a positive
                      recommendation to the City Council to amend the zoning map for the property at 4645 South 1175
                      West from R- 1- 10 to R- 1- 5, based on the Findings in the Staff Report.


            4. 4      APPLICANT ADDRESS:             U Svetlana and Alex Bruner( the applicants) were present and advised
                      that the current structures on the property are in bad shape and they are working to remodel the house
                      and fix up the structures to meet Code. Ms. Bruner advised that she is aware that the garage is in very
                      bad shape and will probably need to be torn down. Her family' s goal is to make the property better and
                      they have done, and still are in the process of doing a lot of work to achieve that.   IR Commissioner
                      Burggraaf asked what their future plans were for the existing home and Svetlana said they plan to
                      keep it after their remodel is completed. She added that they have already spent$ 50, 000 on repairs in
                      the house already and a new garage will be$ 30, 000 or more. She said they came to the neighborhood
                      because they saw great potential in this house and that it would add to the quality of the neighborhood.
                      That their intent was not to have a subdivision, just one new house on the back lot.

            4. 5      Commissioner McElreath opened the public hearing and asked if there were anyone wishing to
                      speak.



            4. 6      SPEAKING:


                      4. 6. 1   Eric Behunin ( lives four houses down from this site). He was not in favor of a zone change to
                                R- 1- 5 as he felt it would decrease the value of his own home. He commented that the home
                                being discussed this evening has been a concern for some time as it was previously allegedly
                                a    Meth house. The neighbors would love to see this turned into something beautiful.   IR

                      4. 6. 2   Ron Breinholt- (     owns   the house directly south).   IR He advised this particular house was
                                originally owned by his grandpa who is now 90 years old. That the neighbors have fought the
                                Meth house for many years and he felt it would be nice to demolish the house and rebuild. He
                                added that the garage is in such bad shape that it could be pushed over with one hand.        He
                                has had discussions with the new owners over lot boundaries not being right. He would be
                                very appreciative if the City could finally solve all these issues surrounding this property and
                                have someone build a new home there who would be a good neighbor.            IR
                      4. 6. 3   Ray Wood. ( lives behind this property).          Mr. Wood is 84 years old and expressed that he
                                would be in favor or demolishing all the present structures and start over with new ones. He
                                felt that this rezone would definitely be good for the owners because they could have two lots
                                and make a definite profit.


                      4. 6. 4   Linda Battenfield. She expressed concern with adding more traffic and density to their street
                                and was not in    favor of granting the rezone.    8
                      4. 6. 5   Becky Behunin. She was in favor or letting the neighbors achieve their goal of upgrading their
                                property and did not see the urgency to split the lot right now. She did not feel there needed to
                                be any more density in their neighborhood and wanted to keep it as is. II
            4. 7      DISCUSSION:


                      4. 7. 1   Commissioner Wendel explained that she did understand the neighbor's emotions and
                                empathized with wanting to keep something the same forever but property owners also have
                                legal rights. With that in mind she encouraged the neighbors to communicate their concerns
                                to these new property owners and try to work out something amicable.           Legally the
                                Commission must look at what it can approve and what it can deny. She appreciated the
                                neighbors coming out this evening and expressing their concerns. That if there are problems
                                on this property in the future, they should call the City' s Code Enforcement Department which
                                is listed on the City Web Page.




   City of Taylorsville
   Planning Commission Minutes
   June 9, 2020
Exhibit H
   Page 10 of 10


                          4. 7. 2       Commissioner Quigley said even though this proposal is for 5, 000 square feet zoning
                                        because there is some contiguous 5, 000 square feet or R- 1- 5 zoning, he still felt this looks
                                        like spot zoning and 1175 West which is known for its' big lots is kind of what makes that street
                                        unique and gives it character.   He felt that the people who live on that street want to preserve
                                        that type of image and even though the streets may be a little busier than they would hope, it
                                        still basically is a good ole country lane and putting houses in the back of these larger lots
                                    would      not   benefit the neighbors.    For those reasons he explained he could not support this
                                        request for a positive recommendation to City Council for a zoning change.

             4. 8         MOTION:            Commissioner Quigley -           I move that we send a negative recommendation to the
                          City Council for File # 6Z20 to amend the zoning map for the property at 4645 South 1175 West
                          from R- 1- 10 to R- 1- 5 based upon the Findings as outlined in the Staff Report.
                          SECOND:         Commissioner Willardson
                                                                                  qq
                          DISCSSION:         Commissioner Burqqraaf.            2J      This might be a much easier decision to make if

                          the applicant       was
                                                     coming forward ready to           move   on   their next phase.   IR   We have had
                          applicants who have come forward ready to subdivide, already having their site plan worked out
                          on what they were going to do and it makes this type of decision much easier when that occurs.
                          I would suggest to the applicant that just because we are making whatever decision we make at
                          this point, that doesn' t rule out the possibility of the applicant coming back and re- addressing
                          this at a subsequent meeting.
                          ROLL CALL VOTE:              Commissioner Quigley— AYES Commissioner Wright— AYE, Commissioner
                          Barbieri —         AYE,     Commissioner       McElreath —          AYE,     Commissioner    Burqqraaf —   AYE,
                          Commissioner Wendel— AYE, Commissioner Willardson— AYE.                           Motion passes unanimously.

   CITY COUNCIL MEETING: Commissioner Barbieri gave the report on the City Council meeting held on June 3, 2020.

   VIA
   ADJOURNMENT: By motion of Commissioner Burqqraaf, the meeting was adjourned at 9: 15 p. m.

   These Minutes were prepared by:



                                    d

     an   Gall      s,   Adm    Assistant/ Recorder for the
    aylorsville City Planning Commission

   Approved in meeting held on July 14, 2020.




   City of Taylorsville
   Planning Commission Minutes
   June 9, 2020
Exhibit I
     Taylorsville City Council Minutes
     June 17, 2020


                                            Click for audio recording

                                            City of Taylorsville
                                         CITY COUNCIL MEETING

                                                    Minutes


                                           Wednesday, June 17, 2020
                                         Council Chambers, Room # 140
                                          2600 West Taylorsville Blvd
                                            Taylorsville, UT 84129


     BRIEFING SESSION


     Attendance-
     Mayor Kristie Overson


     Councilmembers Present-
     Council Chair Meredith Harker
     Vice Chair Brad Christopherson
     Councilmember Curt Cochran


     Staff Members Present-
     John Taylor, City Administrator
     Scott Harrington, Asst. City Administrator/Chief Financial Officer
     Jamie Brooks, City Recorder
     Tracy Cowdell, City Attorney
     Kristy Heineman, Council Coordinator
     Wayne Harper, Economic/ Community Development Director
     Kim Horiuchi, Communications Director
     Richard Rich, Unified Fire Captain
     Ben White, City Engineer

     Others in attendance: Troy Buchanan, Donny Gasu, Rulon Swensen, Gordon Willardson, and
     Mickey Applebaum

     Chair Harker    conducted   the   briefing session which convened at 6: 02 pm.   A roll call was
     conducted,   wherein   Councilmembers      Armstrong and Burgess were absent.    Councilmember

     Burgess arrived immediately thereafter, and it was announced that Councilmember Armstrong was
     excused from the briefing but would attend the regular meeting electronically.

     1.      Review Agenda


      10 The    agenda   for the City Council meeting was reviewed.     Mayor Overson wondered if the
     Council wished to review the resolutions and consider moving some to the consent agenda. They
     had the option of doing so but it was their choice completely.


                                                        1
Exhibit
    Taylorsville City Council Minutes
    June 17, 2020


    Chair Harker wished to keep the agenda as posted but would consider it for future meetings.

    Vice- Chair Christopherson wished to discuss three items of new business.            First, a resident had
    asked if a" dead end" sign could be attached to the Rupp Court street sign. John Taylor did not see
    a problem with that and asked that the resident be referred to City Engineer Ben White to discuss
    the details. The Vice Chair had also been contacted by constituents about the need for speed bumps
    as   well   as   the   brightness ( or lack thereof) of streetlights.   Mr. White indicated he had been
    contacted about both issues previously.

    Chair Harker inquired about the status of signage leading to the heritage museum.             Mr. Taylor
    recalled a discussion on the topic and would revisit the issue to determine the status.

    2.          Adjourn


    Chair Harker declared the briefing session adjourned at 6: 15 pm.


    REGULAR MEETING


    Attendance
    Mayor Kristie Overson


    Councilmembers Present-
    Council Chair Meredith Harker
    Vice Chair Brad Christopherson
    Council Member Dan Armstrong( electronically)
    Council Member Ernest Burgess
    Council Member Curt Cochran


    Staff Members Present
    John Taylor, City Administrator
    Scott Harrington, Assistant City Administrator/ Chief Financial Officer
    Jamie Brooks, City Recorder
    Tracy Cowdell, City Attorney
    Donny Gasu, Emergency Manager
    Wayne Harper, Community/ Economic Development Director
    Kristy Heineman, Council Coordinator
    Kim Horiuchi, Communications Director
    Richard Rich, Unified Fire Captain
    Tracy Wyant, Unified Police Precinct Chief

    Others in attendance- Dana Anderson, Lynda Battenfield, Becky Behunin, Eric Behunin, Troy
    Buchanan, John E. Gidney, Erika Larsen, and Rulon Swensen.

    1.      WELCOME, ROLL CALL AND PRELIMINARY MATTERS




                                                            2
Exhibit I
     Taylorsville City Council Minutes
     June 17, 2020


      Chair Harker called the meeting to order at 6: 31   pm.   A roll call was conducted wherein all
      councilmembers were present, Councilmember Armstrong by electronic means.

            1. 1      Opening Ceremonies— Pledge and Reverence— Mayor Overson

                           Mayor Overson led the Pledge of Allegiance before offering a reverence.

            1. 2      Mayor' s Report


             Q        Mayor Overson reported that the tire store on 4000 W 5400 S had been demolished
            and would soon be replaced    by a 7- 11. Wing Nuts had also been demolished and an Auto
            Zone would be built in its place. An additional demolition was expected at the church on
            4700 South.


            Jersey barriers on 3200 West had been removed and prep work had begun for the fence on
            the west side of the roadway.

            The Mayor had recently toured the Performing Arts Center that would be completed before
            the end of the year. Funding had been secured which would allow beautification of the
            dirt- covered area near that facility as well as City Hall. Mayor Overson expressed
            appreciation to the Taylorsville team who had worked diligently on securing the necessary
            funding for this project.

            Salt Lake County Mayor Jenny Wilson had announced the Small Business Impact Grant
            Program from Carriage Square in Taylorsville.    During the event, small business owners
            had the opportunity to ask questions about the program.

            ChamberWest Leadership Institute had recently been hosted at Taylorsville City Hall.
            West Valley City representatives spoke about the Council- City Administrator form of
            government and West Jordan reported on the experience of changing from that form of
            government to the Council-Mayor form. Salt Lake County Councilperson Aimee Winder
            Newton also participated in the event. Mayor Overson mentioned how much she valued
            the good working relationships with nearby entities.

            Due to the continued need to maintain social distancing, Taylorsville Dayzz would be
            limited to a firework display on June 27th and a virtual 5K race. To avoid large gatherings
            of people, residents were being encouraged to view the fireworks from home. Midvale and
            Bluffdale City would also be hosting fireworks displays that evening so hopefully many
            people would have the opportunity to catch a glimpse of them. Radio stations KODJ 94. 1
            and    Easy 99. 1 would be broadcasting patriotic music to accompany the displays.   Mayor
            Overson informed those gathered that 2700 West would be blocked to 5400 S as would be
            City Hall.

            Regarding Unified Police and its budget, their Budget and Finance Committee had recently
            met. Several of Taylorsville' s questions had been addressed. Mayor Overson specifically
             asked   Sheriff Rivera to cut $ 1, 000, 000 in order to provide a wage increase for police


                                                      3
Exhibit I
     Taylorsville City Council Minutes
     June 17, 2020


            officers. The Mayor hoped to receive an answer to that question the following day, as the
            UPD budget was scheduled to be voted on then. The City continued to be concerned about
            UPD and wished to ensure it was doing everything possible for the community and for the
            officers who served Taylorsville.


            Mayor Overson concluded her report by explaining that the City' s COVID- 19 expenses
            would be reimbursed to a certain extent and that all related expenditures were being tracked
            very carefully.

            1. 3       Citizen Comments


                      There was no one present who wished to speak and no comments had been
                      submitted via email.




     2.      APPOINTMENTS


     There were no appointments


     3.      REPORTS


            3. 1      Emergency Preparedness Report– Donny Gasu

                     Donny Gasu explained the efforts regarding the 5. 7 earthquake that was centered in
            Magna and occurred in March. He mentioned that there had been over 2500 aftershocks,
            several of which had been felt from various locations throughout the Salt Lake Valley.
            This earthquake activity prompted the Internet Operations Center with Salt Lake County
            to be activated, allowing coordination of efforts with neighboring jurisdictions. Mr. Gasu
            had also worked with the City' s Building and Code Enforcement divisions to conduct a
            damage assessment of City facilities. Fortunately, only minor damage was found to the
            bridge at 2700 West 6200 South. With the help of the American Red Cross and the Health
            Department, Taylorsville High School was used to temporarily house 14 Magna families
            who had been displaced by the earthquake.

            A survey was created for those affected by the quake and respondents were able to submit
            damage assessments of their property. Inspectors could then respond to those locations to
            conduct assessments as well. The survey information had been forwarded to the State and
            to the Federal Emergency Management Agency ( FEMA) in the hope of receiving

            reparation funding.

            Regarding COVID- 19, Taylorsville worked under a unified command which worked under
            Salt Lake County and the National Incident Management System( NIMS)— a standardized
            approach to large scale emergencies, coordinating efforts and resources. Fortunately, the
            City did not have many residents physically affected by the virus although they were
            certainly suffering due to the resulting economic crisis. Taylorsville' s Food Pantry was
            still receiving food to distribute, and the essential functions of water service, transportation
            and public safety were still being met.

                                                       4
Exhibit I
     Taylorsville City Council Minutes
     June 17, 2020




            Mr. Gasu      reported   that   all   but two Utah hospitals— University      Medical Center and
            Intermountain Medical Center— were operating at normal capacity and in " green"           status.
            There were currently 118 active cases of the coronavirus in Taylorsville, including 29
            hospitalizations   of    City residents.        According to a report released earlier in the day,
            Intensive Care Units in the valley were only at 15% capacity.


            Chair Harker expressed her appreciation to all of Mr. Gasu' s hard work in recent months
            and indicated the award he was recently given was well-deserved.

            3.2       Taylorsville Amateur Radio Club Report–               Troy Buchanan & Rulon Swensen

             11      Troy Buchanan was excited to showcase some of the amateur radio volunteers
            throughout the valley. He explained there were over 50 active members of the club who
            met on a weekly basis and that there were 250 licensed operators in Taylorsville itself. The
            operators' communication skills and equipment were tested through weekly " check ins."
            There were also monthly in-person meetings taking place prior to COVID- 19 and it was
            hoped they would resume in the future.                 Mr. Buchanan stated that club members had
            donated 389 volunteer service hours to the City just in check-ins alone. He hoped to track
            total    training hours in      the   future.    The club' s purpose was to provide emergency
            communications when requested by government officials and their goal was to be able to
            bridge any potential communication gaps between police, fire, water, power, natural gas,
            the CERT program( Community Emergency Response Team) and the Safe Neighborhood
            program if it became necessary. Club members were now assigned by voting precinct. He
            was happy to put any councilmember in touch with club leaders in their district.

            Rulon Swenson conducted a live demonstration wherein he called out to volunteer
             operators in each council district of the City. Mr. Swenson expressed interest in working
             more closely with the Council so that they would be familiar with the services that could
             be activated if the need arose. Mr. Buchanan encouraged anyone to visit the club' s website
             at taylorsvillehamnet.org.


             Chair Harker asked Mr. Buchanan to explain why amateur radio could be important in the
             event of a disaster. He responded that in certain disasters, cell phone service could easily
             become unavailable. In such cases, amateur radio operators needed no infrastructure and
             therefore could continue to provide communication capabilities. Mr. Swensen pointed out
             that all cell towers were destroyed when a hurricane hit Puerto Rico so amateur radio
             operators were the only communication on the island for several weeks.

             Club member Mickey Applebaum spoke from the audience and stated that Boy Scouts
             could get a merit badge for amateur radio operations.


     4.      CONSENT AGENDA


             4. 1           Minutes–     City Council Meeting June 3, 2020


                                                               5
Exhibit I
     Taylorsville City Council Minutes
     June 17, 2020


     MOTION:            Vice Chair Christopherson moved to approve the minutes of June 3, 2020 as
                        presented. The motion was seconded by Councilmember Cochran.
     Councilmember Cochran                    Yes
     Vice Chair Christopherson                Yes
     Chair Harker                             Yes
     Councilmember Burgess                    Yes
     Councilmember Armstrong                  Yes


     The motion passed 5- 0


     5.                 PLANNING MATTERS


          5. 1          Resolution No. 20- 21 —A Resolution of the City of Taylorsville re- appointing
                        Lynette Wendel to the Planning Commission as representative for District No. 4

             IR         Wayne Harper explained that Commissioner Wendel' s four-year term was up and
                        it was recommended that she be re- appointed.


     MOTION:            Councilmember      Burgess   moved    to   approve   Resolution    No.   20- 21,   re-


                        appointing Lynette Wendel to the Planning Commission as the representative
                        for District No. 4. The motion was seconded by Councilmember Cochran.
     Chair Harker                             Yes
     Councilmember Armstrong                  Yes
     Vice Chair Christopherson                Yes
     Councilmember Cochran                    Yes
     Councilmember Burgess                    Yes


     The motion passed 5- 0


            5. 2        Resolution No. 20- 22 - A Resolution of the City of Taylorsville re- appointing Don
                        Russell as an Alternate for the Planning Commission

                   IQ    Mr. Harper explained that Mr. Russell had been an alternate for a little more than
                        a year. If the Council chose to reappoint him, it would be his first full term as an
                        alternate.




    MOTION:             Councilmember Cochran moved to approve Resolution 20- 22, re- appointing
                        Don Russell as the Alternate for the Planning Commission.         The motion was
                        seconded by Councilmember Burgess.
     Councilmember Burgess                    Yes
     Chair Harker                             Yes
     Councilmember Armstrong                  Yes
     Councilmember Cochran                    Yes
    Vice Chair Christopherson                 Yes


                                                         6
Exhibit
    Taylorsville City Council Minutes
    June 17, 2020



    The motion passed 5- 0


           5.3      Ordinance No. 20- 14— Public comment and consideration of Ordinance No. 20- 14,

                    an ordinance of the City of Taylorsville, approving a Zoning Map amendment from
                    Residential Single-Family Minimum 10, 000 square feet ( R- 1- 10) to Residential
                    Single-Family Minimum 5, 000 square feet( R- 1- 5) for the property located at 4645
                    South 1175 West


                    IR    Mr. Harper explained that Ordinance 20- 14 addressed the City' s zoning map
                    and involved almost 17, 000 square feet of property located at 4645 South 1175
                    West, on the east side of the road across from the Fore Lakes Golf Course.                         He

                    indicated that the applicant hoped to have a rezone approved before proceeding
                    with   further improvements.             Although    staff recommended               approval   of the
                    application,    the    Planning       Commission     was     unanimous          in    their   negative
                    recommendation, preferring the existing home to be demolished and the property
                    remaining a single lot.          Staff felt that both parcels would allow for 8, 000 square
                    foot lots but if the Planning Commission' s recommendation was followed, the
                    result would be spot zoning.

                    Chair Harker invited the applicant to address the council. Lana Bryner approached
                    the podium and explained that she hoped to subdivide the property after obtaining
                    a rezone.  She stated that the Planning Commission did not appear to have any
                    concerns until the neighbors began speaking up. She wished to point out the benefit
                    her plan would have to the community, explained that run- down areas such as this
                    property led to increased crime. The current home on the lot had been built in the
                    1930' s, had been neglected by the previous owners and had been a meth house at
                    one point. She explained that she had purchased the property in November but that
                    transients had routinely stayed on site          and she continued        to have problems.       She

                    wished to improve the property and make it more aesthetically pleasing which she
                    felt would lead to reduced crime. Even to tear down the existing garage would cost
                     50, 000. Ms. Bryner stated that the only way to make the project financially
                    feasible was to rezone and subdivide.


                    Councilmember Christopherson asked if the home was still vacant.                          Ms. Bryner
                    responded     that   her   children   had recently   moved       in   after   spending $ 50, 000 to
                    renovate the interior.


                    Councilmember Cochran asked the applicant how long she had owned the property
                    and    what   her plan     was    when   she   purchased   it.   She responded that she had
                    purchased it site unseen as a bank foreclosure in late October and that once she had
                    access   to the property,     she realized what poor shape            it was in.     She now felt the
                    garage needed to be torn down but did not believe the expense was justified if she
                    was not going to be able to rezone her property and subdivide it into two lots.



                                                             7
Exhibit I
     Taylorsville City Council Minutes
     June 17, 2020


                     In response to a question from Councilmember Cochran, it was learned that the
                     applicant' s son wished to live on the front portion of the property while building
                     on the rear. He anticipated it would take 2- 3 years.


                     Chair Harker asked Ms. Bryner if she could guarantee that the old garage would be
                     demolished. She responded in the affirmative, explaining that the new house would
                     be built where the    current   garage   stood.   There would be no further interior
                     renovations for the existing house, but they intended to make improvements to the
                     exterior.




                     Chair Harker opened the public hearing.

                     Planning Commissioner Gordon Willardson stated that before hearing from
                     concerned neighbors, the Commission was already under the impression that the
                     property was purchased as a potential " flip," and that the applicant' s initial intent
                     was to sub- divide in order to increase her profit. Mr. Willardson indicated that was
                     the reason for the denial by the Planning Commission.

                     Taylorsville resident Linda Battenfield explained that she lived approximately two
                     doors south of the property in question. She acknowledged that improvements had
                     been made to the interior of the existing home but that her concern was that to allow
                     the rezone would result in " spot" zoning as it was separate from the nearby R- 1- 5
                     zone. She was unconvinced that building an additional structure would have any
                     effect on the neighborhood and questioned the safety of occupying a former meth
                     house.


                     Becky Behunin, another nearby resident pointed out that the area in question was
                     known for its larger lots. She stated that she and her neighbors did not wish to have
                     smaller lots in the area.


                     Larry Wood explained that he had helped construct the buildings currently on the
                     property and he invited the Council to go to the site and view it for themselves. He
                     also wondered if the City allowed the rezone and subdivision of this property,
                     would
                              they let others in the area do so as well? Like Mr. Willardson, he felt the
                     applicant' s intent was to flip the property and he did not wish to see smaller lots in
                     the area.



                     Chair Harker inquired of Mr. Harper whether granting this application would allow
                     neighboring properties to rezone and subdivide as well. Mr. Harper responded that
                     every property owner would need to go through the application process that Ms.
                     Bryner was going through.

                     Councilmember Cochran wished to understand what the impact of either decision
                     would be on the property in question as well as neighboring properties.




                                                        8
Exhibit I
     Taylorsville City Council Minutes
     June 17, 2020


                     Mr. Harper responded that Ms. Bryner' s property met the criteria of a" flag" lot—
                     with                                                                            o
                          no frontage. He was unsure what the result would be to neighborhood property
                     values, explaining that would be up to interpretation by a professional appraiser.

                     The applicant was then given the opportunity to respond to the neighbor' s concerns.
                     She asserted that even though the area was zoned R- 1- 10, most homes were not
                     actually that large— at least not on the east side. She did not feel there was enough
                     room for the other lots to be sub- divided, so she felt there was no danger of many
                     other property owners in the area attempting to rezone and subdivide.

                     City resident Eric Behunin wondered if there might be a viable development option
                     that did not involve a rezone. He pointed out that there was a charm to the larger
                     lots in the area, but that people need space to breath between properties.


                     Councilmember Burgess asked if the former meth house was safe considering its
                     history. Ms. Bryner responded that the home had been remediated and that she had
                     a certificate documenting that.

                     Chair Harker asked the applicant what her intention was if the Council denied her
                     application. Ms. Bryner responded that she would still make improvements to the
                     exterior of the existing home but would make no other improvements. The existing
                     garage would remain.



                     As there was no one else who wished to speak, Chair Harker closed the public
                     hearing.

                     Tracy Cowdell stated that he lived in an area that included 5, 000 square foot lots.
                     There were mixed feelings about those lots but the city in which he lived had
                     ultimately decided to allow them.     People were entitled to enjoy their property
                     subject to reasonable government regulation. He pointed out that it was up to the
                     City Council to determine if the proposed zoning was appropriate for the area. He
                     asked the Council to keep in mind that the rezone would not affect just this property
                     but all property within the zone.

                     Vice Chair Christopherson pointed out that there were many rezone applications
                     where no one spoke    in opposition during the public hearing— even if the Planning
                     Commission had recommended denial. He trusted both the Planning Commission
                     and the staff and a conflict between the two was rare. He was currently torn and

                     wished to hear from other members of the Council.


                     Councilmember Burgess felt approval would constitute" spot" zoning.

                     Councilmember Cochran stated that he was familiar with the area in question and
                     he agreed that part of the area' s charm was the larger lots. Although he applauded
                     the applicant for her efforts, he was concerned that approval would set a precedent
                     for the rest of Taylorsville.



                                                       9
Exhibit I
     Taylorsville City Council Minutes
     June 17, 2020



                     Chair Harker indicated she was also     conflicted.   She said it was clear that the

                     property needed a lot of work and expressed surprise that nearby residents were not
                     supportive of a plan that would improve the appearance of the property. She stated
                     she was leaning toward approval of the proposed ordinance.

                     Councilmember Cochran indicated that his general philosophy as a councilmember
                     was that the needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few.

     MOTION:         Chair Harker moved to adopt Ordinance 20- 14 as presented.


     The motion died for lack of a second.


     MOTION:         Councilmember Cochran moved to deny Ordinance No. 20- 14.                The motion

                     was seconded by Councilmember Burgess.
     Councilmember Armstrong                  Yes
     Councilmember Burgess                    Yes
     Chair Harker                             No
     Vice Chair Christopherson               Yes
     Councilmember Cochran                   Yes


     The motion passed 4- 1


     6.              FINANCIAL MATTERS


            6.1      Resolution No. 20- 18- A Resolution of the City of Taylorsville authorizing an
                     amendment to extend Interlocal Agreement# SF12038C between Salt Lake County
                     and the City for Bailiff and Security Services for an additional twelve-month period
                     under a new Fee Schedule.


              10     Mr. Harrington      explained   the amendment   involved   an   approximate   2%   price

                     increase over the previous year. He recommended that the City Council approve
                     the amendment.


     MOTION:         Vice Chair Christopherson moved to approve Resolution 20- 18, authorizing
                     an amendment to extend Interlocal Agreement# SF12038C between Salt Lake

                     County and the City for Bailiff and Security Services for an additional twelve-
                     month period under a new Fee Schedule. The motion was seconded by
                     Councilmember Cochran.

     Councilmember Cochran                 Yes
     Vice Chair Christopherson             Yes
     Chair Harker                          Yes
     Councilmember Burgess                 Yes
     Councilmember Armstrong               Yes



                                                        10
Exhibit I
     Taylorsville City Council Minutes
     June 17, 2020


     The motion passed 5- 0


             6.2      Resolution No. 20- 29— A Resolution of the city of Taylorsville approving the First
                      Amendment to the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between the City of
                      Taylorsville and Salt Lake County for Prisoner Transport Services

                     Tracy Cowdell explained that it was necessary to renew the contract with Salt Lake
                     County which pertained to the transport ofjail inmates to and from the justice court.
                     Costs had been analyzed and this was still a financially sound agreement for the City.
                     Mr. Cowdell also pointed out that due to improvements to technology and court
                     appearances via electronic means, inmates were transported much less often than had
                     been the case previously. The City had realized a cost savings in that regard, and he
                     recommended approval of the contract amendment.


     MOTION:          Councilmember Cochran moved to approve Resolution 20- 29, authorizing the
                      First Amendment to the Interlocal Agreement between Salt Lake County and
                      the City for Prisoner Transport Services. The motion was seconded by
                      Councilmember Burgess.

     Chair Harker                           Yes
     Councilmember Armstrong                Yes
     Vice Chair Christopherson              Yes
     Councilmember Cochran                  Yes
     Councilmember Burgess                  Yes


     The motion passed 5- 0


             6. 3     Resolution No. 20- 23 — A Resolution      of the City of Taylorsville approving an
                       amendment to the Interlocal Agreement between the City and Salt Lake County for
                      the transfer of funds to be used for Regional Transportation under the First-Class
                      Highway Projects

                      Mr. Harper indicated that the City had received funds from the Salt Lake County
                      Highway Projects Fund. If not used, the County could reallocate those funds
                      elsewhere. The money was for the Mid-Valley Bus Rapid Transit ( BRT) system
                      and he recommended that the City Council adopt the resolution so that the project
                      could continue.




     MOTION:           Vice Chair Christopherson moved to approve Resolution 20- 23, approving an
                       amendment to the Interlocal Agreement between the City and Salt Lake
                       County for the transfer of funds to be used for Regional Transportation under
                       the   First- class   Highway    Projects.   The    motion     was    seconded    by
                       Councilmember Cochran.

     Councilmember Burgess                  Yes
     Chair Harker                           Yes



                                                        11
Exhibit I
     Taylorsville City Council Minutes
     June 17, 2020


     Councilmember Armstrong             Yes
     Councilmember Cochran               Yes
     Vice Chair Christopherson           Yes


     The motion passed 5- 0


            6.4      Resolution No. 20- 24 — A resolution of the City of Taylorsville determining the

                     Certified Tax Rate and Levying of Taxes upon all real and personal property within
                     the City for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2020 and ending June 30, 2021

                     Mr. Harrington explained that this was the last part of the City' s budget process.
                     As part of Truth in Taxation, it was necessary for the Council to approve a tax rate
                     each year. If deviating from the rate set by the State Tax Commission, a Truth in
                     Taxation hearing was required. However, there was no deviation recommended
                     this year, so no hearing was required. The recommended amount was .0094 ( down
                     slightly from the previous year), yielding guaranteed revenue of$ 3, 330, 831.   As
                     property values increased, the tax rate was reduced.

     MOTION:         Councilmember Burgess moved to approve Resolution 20-24, setting the
                     Certified Tax Rate and Levying of Taxes upon all real and personal property
                     within the City for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2020 and ending June 30,
                     2021. The motion was seconded by Vice Chair Christopherson.
     Vice Chair Christopherson           Yes
     Councilmember Cochran               Yes
     Councilmember Burgess               Yes
     Councilmember Armstrong             Yes
     Chair Harker                        Yes


     The motion passed 5- 0


            6.5      Resolution No. 20- 26 —     A Resolution of the City of Taylorsville amending
                     Resolution No. 19- 09 to accept additional CDBG funding through the C.A.R.E. S.
                     Act for the FYI 9- 20 One-Year Action Plan in the amount of$224, 808, approving
                     an amendment to the FY 19- 20 One- Year Action Plan to include additional funding
                     and authorizing the use of the additional funding

                           Mr. Harrington explained that the next two resolutions on the agenda were
                     related. There were some CDBG funds from the federal government that the City
                     hoped to use to aid those residents and businesses who had applied for COVID- 19
                     related financial aid. Approving this resolution would add the funds to the budget
                     so that such aid could be provided where possible.


                     Chair Harker opened the public hearing. There was no one who expressed a desire
                     to speak and the Chair then closed the public hearing.


                                                      12
Exhibit I
     Taylorsville City Council Minutes
     June 17, 2020


     MOTION:         Vice Chair Christopherson moved to approve Resolution 20- 26 as presented.
                     The motion was seconded by Councilmember Burgess.
     Councilmember Armstrong                  Yes
     Councilmember Burgess                    Yes
     Chair Harker                             Yes
     Vice Chair Christopherson                Yes
     Councilmember Cochran                    Yes


     The motion passed 5- 0


            6.6      Resolution No. 20- 27 — A resolution of the
                                                              City of Taylorsville approving an
                     amendment to the Community Development Block Grant Citizen Participation Plan
                     adopted in Resolution No. 19- 13


                     Mr. Harrington pointed out that the federal government had recognized that time
                     was of the essence and had authorized a shorter window of time wherein public
                     comment was accepted on these issues.


     MOTION:         Vice Chair Christopherson moved to approve Resolution 20- 27 as outlined in

                     the agenda packet. The motion was seconded by Councilmember Burgess.
     Councilmember Cochran                    Yes
     Vice Chair Christopherson                Yes
     Chair Harker                             Yes
     Councilmember Burgess                    Yes
     Councilmember Armstrong                  Yes


     The motion passed 5- 0


            6. 7     Resolution No. 20- 28 — A Resolution of the City of Taylorsville       approving the
                     Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act Funding Agreement between
                     the City and Salt Lake County

                     IR     Mr. Harrington explained that this C.A.R.E.S. funding was in the amount of
                      1, 770, 142. 62 and the City of Taylorsville could use the funds for a variety of
                     COVID- 19 related        expenses   and needs.   The City had received approximately
                     twenty    applications   from businesses and residents who sought assistance.One
                     caveat was that the funds could not be used to replace lost revenue. The deadline
                     for spending the money was December 31, 2020 but it might be moved up to
                     October 1.   That detail still needed to be worked out with Salt Lake County.

                     Chair Harker asked who determined what the funds were spent on. Mr. Harrington
                     replied   it would be determined by City Administration.      Mayor Overson pointed

                     out that she would certainly reach out to the City Council and take a team approach
                     to coming up with the best plan possible for distributing the funds. Mr. Harrington


                                                           13
Exhibit I
     Taylorsville City Council Minutes
     June 17, 2020


                     stated that there were certain restrictions placed on the money and that if it was not
                     spent appropriately or by the deadline, the City would be required to pay it back.

                     Councilmember Cochran asked Mr. Harrington if the City was capable of spending
                     all the funds within the allotted time. Mr. Harrington indicated every effort would
                     be made to do so.


     MOTION:         Councilmember Burgess moved to approve Resolution 20- 28 as presented.
                     The motion was seconded by Vice Chair Christopherson.
     Chair Harker                          Yes
     Councilmember Armstrong               Yes
     Vice Chair Christopherson             Yes
     Councilmember Cochran                 Yes
     Councilmember Burgess                 Yes


     The motion passed 5- 0


     7.              OTHER MATTERS


             7.1     Resolution No. 20-20- A Resolution of the City of Taylorsville approving an
                     Interlocal Agreement between the City and Salt Lake County for participation as
                     co- permittees under UPDES Permit No. UTS000001


                     El Mr. Taylor turned the time over to Ben White who described the agreement
                     for the City Council. He stated that all entities in the Salt Lake Valley except for
                     Salt Lake City had the same permit with Salt Lake County. The entities had agreed
                     to work together since each had the similar needs and goals.     The permit expired

                     every 3- 5 years and now needed to be renewed.      The City' s portion of the media
                     campaign cost was $ 8, 600.


     MOTION:         Councilmember Burgess moved to approve Resolution 20-20, approving an
                     Interlocal Agreement between the City and Salt Lake County for participation
                     as   co- permittees   under   UPDES Permit No. UTS000001.          The motion was

                     seconded by Councilmember Cochran.
     Councilmember Burgess                  Yes
     Chair Harker                           Yes
     Councilmember Armstrong                Yes
     Councilmember Cochran                  Yes
     Vice Chair Christopherson              Yes


     The motion passed 5- 0


             7.2     Resolution No. 20- 25 — A Resolution of the City of Taylorsville consenting to a
                     Fourth Extension of the State of Emergency proclaimed in response to COVID- 19


                                                       14
Exhibit
    Taylorsville City Council Minutes
    June 17, 2020


                     9     The City Council was familiar with this agenda item as they had approved
                     similar extensions in the recent past.


    MOTION:          Councilmember Burgess moved to approve Resolution 20- 25, approving a
                     Fourth Extension of the Local State of Emergency proclaimed in response to
                     COVID- 19. The motion was seconded by Vice Chair Christopherson.

    Vice Chair Christopherson              Yes
    Councilmember Cochran                  Yes
    Councilmember Burgess                  Yes
    Councilmember Armstrong                Yes
    Chair Harker                           Yes


    The motion passed 5- 0


    S.        IR NEW ITEMS FOR SUBSEQUENT CONSIDERATION ( No Action)

           8. 1      Vice- Chair Christopherson— Mr. Taylor had introduced Mr. White to the citizen
           who had concerns about speed limits and streetlights. He would be visiting with her at the
           sites of her concerns to see if they could be addressed. There was a non-functioning speed
           radar sign that was meant for northbound traffic. It was near 4118 South 1300 West about
           one half block north of Meadowbrook Golf Course on the west side of the street.


           8.2       Councilmember Burgess —Expressed appreciation for the way the meeting was
           conducted. He felt it was important to make sure the public understood each item and why
           the councilmembers voted as they did.

           8. 3      Council Member Armstrong— nothing for subsequent consideration.


            8. 4     Council Member Cochran— nothing for subsequent consideration.


            8. 5     Council Chair Harker—nothing for subsequent consideration.


    9.        R      NOTICE OF FUTURE PUBLIC MEETING (NEXT MEETING)
            9. 1     Planning Commission Work Session— Tuesday, June 23, 2020 at 6: 00 pm
            9. 2     Planning Commission Meeting—Tuesday, June 23, 2020 at 7: 00 pm
            9. 3     City Council Briefing Session- Wednesday, July 1, 2020 at 6: 00 pm
            9. 4     City Council Meeting— Wednesday, July 1, 2020 at 6: 30 pm
            9. 5     Planning Commission Work Session— Tuesday, July 14, 2020 at 6: 00 pm
            9. 6     Planning Commission Meeting— Tuesday, July 14, 2020 at 7: pm
            9. 7    " Let' s Talk Taylorsville"— Wednesday, July 29, 2020 at 6: 00 pm


    10.     CALENDAR OF UPCOMING EVENTS


            10. 1    Taylorsville Dayzz Fireworks Extravaganza— " Stay Home, Look Up"— Saturday,

                     June 27, 2020 ( See the City' s website for more detailed information)

                                                       15
Exhibit
    Taylorsville City Council Minutes
    June 17, 2020




    11.     CLOSED SESSION ( Conference Room # 202) — For the purposes described in UCA
     52- 4- 205
    MOTION:         Vice Chair Christopherson moved to convene a Closed Session for 1) a strategy
                    session   to   discuss reasonably imminent litigation;     2)   a discussion of the
                    character,     professional     competence,   or physical or mental   health of an
                    individual;    and   3)   discussion regarding deployment of security personnel,
                    devices or systems.        The motion was seconded by Councilmember Cochran.
    Councilmember Armstrong                   Yes
    Councilmember Burgess                     Yes
    Chair Harker                              Yes
    Vice Chair Christopherson                 Yes
    Councilmember Cochran                     Yes


    The motion passed 5- 0


    12.    ADJOURNMENT


    The City Council meeting recessed at 8: 15 p. m. and a Closed Session convened shortly thereafter.
    The Closed Session adjourned at approximately 10: 30 p. m.



    Jamie Brooks, CMC
    City Recorder

    Minutes Approved: July 1, 2020




                                                        16
