                                     TAYLORSVILLE, UTAH
                                     ORDINANCE NO. 22- 06


AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF TAYLORSVILLE AMENDING TAYLORSVILLE
             MUNICIPAL CODE CHAPTER 2. 26: CITY YOUTH COUNCIL.


       WHEREAS, the Taylorsville      City Council ( the " Council") met during its regularly
scheduled meeting on March 16, 2022, to consider, among other things, amending TAYLORSVILLE
MUNICIPAL CODE Chapter 2. 26: City Youth Council; and

       WHEREAS, the City Youth Council was created to provide an opportunity for the youth
of the City to acquire a greater knowledge of and appreciation for the political system of local
government through activities, service, and participation in local government; and


       WHEREAS, thetheCityYouth
                 purpose
                 P rP    of this amendment is to update Council ordinance

for relevancy and consistency; and

       WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it would be in
the best interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the City' s citizens to amend TAYLORSVILLE
MUNICIPAL CODE Chapter 2. 26: City Youth Council as proposed.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Taylorsville City Council that the
proposed amendments to TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE Chapter 2.26: City Youth Council are
hereby approved and are designated by interlineating the words to be deleted and underlining the
words to be added, as follows:



                                 TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE

                                 Chapter 2. 26: City Youth Council

2. 26. 010: CREATION AND PURPOSE:

There is hereby created a city youth council. The city youth council is created as an advisory
body to the city with the following purposes:

  A.   To promote and provide an opportunity for the youth of the city to acquire a greater
knowledge of, and appreciation for, the political system of local government through activities
service., and participation in local government.


  B.  To obtain information and assistance from city youth regarding planning and
implementation of social, educational, cultural and recreational activities for youth in the city.

 C.      To, as an organization and body, with the consent of the city council, plan and implement
activities of service to the community of the city, as well as accept and act upon foreign
proposals to do acts of community service.




                                                   2
  D.   City Support Staff: With the consent of the City Council, the City Council Coordinator,
otherwise known as the City Youth Council Advisor, shall provide the City Youth Council with
such administrative staff support as he or she deems necessary to assist the City Youth Council
in carrying out its duties and responsibilities.


The city youth council shall report to and be responsible to the city council and the advisor. The
city youth council shall meet twice a month in a regular youth city council meeting, holding
additional work sessions when necessary. The city youth council shall not have authority to bind
the city or impose any condition on the city or its citizens. ( Ord. 14- 17,   10- 15- 2014)


2. 26. 020: STRUCTURE OF OFFICERS:
The city youth council shall consist of a minimum of ten ( 10) members to include, but not be
limited to, a youth mayor, five ( 5) youth city council members, a youth council chair, a youth
council vice chair, a youth city recorder, and a youth   city historian. (Ord. 14- 17, 10- 15- 2014)


2. 26.030: SELECTION AND APPOINTMENT:


 A.    The positions of youth council chair and vice chair, youth mayor, youth city recorder, and
youth city historian shall be determined by the election process. The general election shall occur
annually during the first regular city youth council meeting in August. Voters may have only one
ballot and may vote only one at a time. Votes will be counted immediately and the results will be
announced by the    .                                         advisor that same meeting. The newly
elected positions will take office during the first regular youth city council meeting, to be held in
September of each year.


 B.    The city youth council and youth mayor may create subcommittees to accomplish their
purposes.




 C.    Members of the city youth council are required to be residents of the city who attend
Taylorsville High School or who are homeschooled, or non-residents who attend Taylorsville High
School, and be in good standing academically and with regards to citizenship as determined by
their school.   : . -   . . -
                                      Ord. 14- 17, 10- 15- 2014)



2. 26.040: TERM; REMOVAL; VACANCY:


 A.    Subject to subsections 2.26.050A and B of this chapter, and excepting appointment by
reason of vacancy due to removal or resignation, the term of appointment for a member of the
city youth council shall be one year, beginning in September of the year he or she is elected.

  B.   A member of the city youth council may be removed with advice and consent of the city
council and the advisor for, among other things, excessive, unexcused absences/ not maintaining
an attendance record of eighty percent( 80%).



                                                   3
  C.    Any vacancy occurring on the youth city council, either by removal or by resignation, shall
be filled by the youth city council coordinator advisor with advice and consent of the city
council. The new member filling the vacancy shall have a term to end at the same time as the
current youth city council members. ( Ord.     14- 17, 10- 15- 2014)


2. 26. 050: OFFICERS:

Officers of the city youth council shall consist with the consent of the city council and advisor as
follows:


 A.     City Youth Mayor: Shall be elected annually with the advice and consent of the city
council and advisor. The city youth mayor shall be a high school senior and will serve as the
youth mayor from September to August.


 B.    City Youth Council Chair and Vice Chair: Shall be elected annually with the advice and
consent of the city council and advisor. The city youth council chair and vice chair shall be high
school juniors or seniors and will serve as the city youth council chair and vice chair from
September to August.


 C.    City Youth Recorder: Shall be elected annually with the advice and consent of the city
council and advisor. The City Youth Recorder shall be a high school junior or senior and shall
serve as the secretary of the city youth council and record all proceedings of the city youth
council meetings from September to August.


 D.     City Youth Historian: Shall be elected annually with the advice and consent of the city
council and advisor. The City Youth Historian shall be a high school junior or senior and shall
provide photos of all City Youth Council events. The City Youth Historian shall serve from
September to August. . • .   •.   •-   .   -   •




 E.     Other Officers: Other officers deemed necessary by the youth city mayor, youth city
council chair and vice chair, youth city recorder, and youth city historian shall be appointed
annually by the unanimous consent of the youth city mayor, youth city council chair and vice
chair, youth city recorder, and youth city historian and shall function as directed.




  F.   City Youth Council Advisor: A city council member or designee shall serve as an advisor
to the city youth council, along with the city council coordinator, and attend meetings of the city
youth council and provide leadership and support to the program. (Ord. 14- 17, 10- 15- 2014)

2. 26.060: RULES OF PROCEDURE:




                                                    4
The city youth council shall operate in accordance with " Robert's Rules of Order" unless the city
youth council develops rules of procedure that are approved by the city youth council advisor.
 Ord. 14- 17, 10- 15- 2014)


2. 26.070: OPERATIONS:

As allowed by this chapter and other applicable law, and with the prior approval of the city
council, the city youth council may:


  A.    Take opportunities to acquire a greater knowledge of, and appreciation for, the political
system of local government, through completion of planned projects and active participation in
local government.


  B.   Inform city government officials regarding planning and implementing of social,
educational, cultural and recreational activities        for youth. ( Ord. 14- 17, 10- 15- 2014)


        This ordinance, assigned Ordinance No. 22- 06, shall take effect as soon as it shall be
published or posted as required by law, deposited and recorded in the office of the City Recorder,
and accepted as required herein.

        PASSED AND APPROVED this                 j(„/'        day of                                  2022.




                                                   TAYLORSVILLE CITY                    I     NCIL




                                                  0VW/.                            r
                                                                                       4              /
                                                   Co r cil Chair'



                                                   VOTING:


                                                   Meredith Harker                      Yea /         Nay_
                                                   Ernest Burgess                       Yea     17Nay
                                                   Bob Knudsen                          Yea           Nay
                                                   Curt Cochran                         Yea               y
                                                   Anna Barbieri                        Yea           Nay

                                                                                                      S+
        PRESENTED        to   Mayor    of   Taylorsville        for her   approval     this   , 3 I           day of
  t                       2022.




        APPROVED this , g         ay        of       V,         G   ti     2022.
                                                                             ,




                                                          5
                                       j4.     15            g. (           c- e- ZrX c____.

                                        Mayor Kristie S. Overson
ATTEST:
                                                                                                     y OF TAYZ O
                                                                               i c;...•GpRPp9                       G




                                                                               1,` ../.••!...•
                                                                                                 i
                                                                                                     SFA          o. r„
                                                                                                                          i
         a..
        s. 4                                                                                               t 99    //
Jami e- Brooks, Recorder
                                                                                          44\         p`    i'



       DEPOSITED in the Recorder' s office this21   Sday    of   11,-) c-
                                                                       L             2022.


       POSTED this; 9,' clay of   1                 2022.




                                           6
