                                      TAYLORSVILLE, UTAH
                                      ORDINANCE NO. 22- 05


AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF TAYLORSVILLE AMENDING TAYLORSVILLE
 MUNICIPAL CODE CHAPTER 2. 26A: CITY YOUTH AMBASSADOR PROGRAM.

           WHEREAS, the Taylorsville City Council ( the " Council") met during its regularly
scheduled meeting on March 16, 2022 to consider, among other things, amending TAYLORSVILLE
MUNICIPAL CODE Chapter 2. 26A: City Youth Ambassador Program; and

           WHEREAS, the City' s Youth Ambassador Program is a valuable program that helps the
City' s    youth become successful, contributing members of the community by providing
opportunities for involvement, education, and experience in local government and policies; and


      WHEREAS, the purpose of this amendment is to update the City Youth Ambassador
Program for relevancy and consistency; and

           WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it would be in
the best interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the City' s citizens to amend TAYLORSVILLE
MUNICIPAL CODE Chapter 2. 26A: City Youth Ambassador Program as proposed.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Taylorsville City Council that the
proposed   amendments     to TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE Chapter 2. 26A: City Youth

Ambassador Program are hereby approved and are designated by interlineating the words to be
deleted and underlining the words to be added, as follows:


                                  TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE
                         Chapter 2. 26A: City Youth Ambassador Program


2. 26A.010: PURPOSES:

The purposes of the city youth ambassador program are to:

  A.       Prepare youth to become successful, contributing members of the community by promoting
involvement, education, and experience in local government and politics.


  B.      Match high school seniors                                  with mentors from various local
businesses and government offices to provide opportunities for youth to exercise mutual
understanding, develop leadership and interpersonal skills, and experience all facets of local
government including, but not limited to, services provided to city residents, current issues facing
the city, and city department contributions. ( Ord. 14- 16, 10- 15- 2014)



2. 26A.020: AMBASSADORS; TERMS:




                                                  2
  A.      Ambassadors: The city youth ambassador program shall consist of a            imum-ef no more
than four( 4) ambassadors.


  B. Term: City youth ambassadors shall serve for a one- year term beginning in October and
ending in August of the following year. City youth ambassadors may only serve for one selection
term.     '




2. 26A.030: AMBASSADOR ELIGIBILITY:

City youth ambassador applicants must meet the following requirements to be considered for
selection to the city youth ambassador program:


 A.      The applicant must be a high school senior .
thereVielear:

 B.      The applicant must have a minimum high school grade point average of 3. 02. A copy of the
applicant's high school transcript should be included in the application materials packet.
 C.      -- . . . •-.                                              The applicant must be a resident of
the city who attends Taylorsville High School or who is homeschooled, or a non-resident who
attends Taylorsville High School, and be in good standing academically and with regards to
citizenship as determined by their school.
  D. The applicant must have served on the city youth council for a minimum of one year.
 E.     The applicant must submit a written proposal for a service project the applicant will
implement the service project during their year as a city youth ambassador. The proposal must
include details and a time line for completing the service project.
  F. The applicant must submit two ( 2) letters of recommendation from any of the following
individuals: a teacher from the applicant's school, an official from the applicant's school, an
employer, a neighbor, a friend, ef-an ecclesiastical or community leader.
 G.      The applicant must submit a resume that includes all previous and current extracurricular
activities in which the applicant has participated or is participating.
 H.      The applicant must commit to participating in all city youth ambassador events during the
course of the applicant's one- year ambassador term.
 I.     The applicant must participate in an interview by a selection panel. ( Ord. 14- 16, 10- 15- 2014)


2. 26A.040: SELECTION AND APPOINTMENT:

The city youth ambassadors shall be chosen by a selection panel. The selection panel shall consist
of nn up to four (4) of the following individuals: the city mayor, a member of the city
council, the city council coordinator, a representative from a Taylorsville secondary school, a
Taylorsville resident at large, or a member of a local service organization. ( Ord. 14- 16, 10- 15-
2014)


2. 26A.050: SERVICE RESPONSIBILITIES:




                                                     3
The city youth ambassadors shall, during their term as ambassadors, fulfill the following service
responsibilities:




  A.  Participate in a workshop with city government and submit a written and oral report on the
workshop to the city council during a regularly scheduled city council meeting.

  B.  Volunteer at city events including, but not limited to, parades, local ribbon cuttings,
groundbreakings, city ceremonies, and Taylorsville Dayzz.

  C.    Plan and implement a service project to be completed within their one-year term of service
as an ambassador,.
                      The project must include details and a timeline including coordinating with
the city public information officer to ensure community awareness for the service project. The

applicant will present their service project before the City Council at its completion.

  D.   City youth ambassadors who successfully complete a one-year term shall receive a
scholarship, in an amount to be determined by the City, to any university of their choice, or receive
reimbursement for school expenses including, but not limited to, housing and/ or textbooks. City

                                                                                        The scholarship
will be available for up to four( 4) years following the City youth ambassador' s term of service to
the City of Taylorsville.

  E.   Provide leadership and mentoring at city youth council meetings, including, but not limited
to, arranging speakers and other presentations to educate the city youth council on government
processes. ( Ord. 14- 16,   10- 15- 2014)


        This ordinance, assigned Ordinance No. 22- 05, shall take effect as soon as it shall be
published or posted as required by law, deposited and recorded in the office of the City Recorder,
and accepted as required herein.

        PASSED AND APPROVED this            L        1`       qday   of   m, AX_P .-    , 2022.



                                                TAYLORS                   LLE CITY COUNCIL



                                                it            Alif:/ / i/ 416111rega..
                                                                                     Ar

                                                              Counci Chair Mir




                                                          4
                                                 VOTING:


                                                Meredith Harker                     Yea     VNay
                                                Ernest Burgess                      Yea /         Nay
                                                Bob Knudsen                         Yea     1/    Nay
                                                Curt Cochran                        Yea     VNay
                                                Anna Barbieri                       Yea /         Nay


                                                                                                 16"4-
      PRESENTED         to   Mayor   of    Taylorsville   for    her   approval   this    Q,                   day of
                        2022.




      APPROVED this (         j   qday    of   f Y1ev1,                 2022.



                                               ie;7's                  Li
                                                Mayor Kristie S. Overson
                                                                                                              y pF rAy4oN
ATTEST:                                                                                             G.;••, O RP`%9
                                                                                                                            os
                                                                                            it
                                                                                                    t S. d              o: m   s

                                                                                                        F19....

                                                                                                        Ik.      OW
Jam     oks, Recorder




                                                                                    a
      DEPOSITED in the Recorder' s--office this,          l      y of   (   Y1G                  022.


      POSTED this        I` aay of                            2022.




                                                   5
