                                   TAYLORSVILLE, UTAH
                                   ORDINANCE NO. 22- 08


     AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF TAYLORSVILLE A p1 0m
    AMENDMENT TO TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODEEO'IO1 13: 25.01, ,
    ESTABLISHING GENERAL LANDSCAPING STANDARDS FOR• ARIeS`I'                                   'S


       WHEREAS, the Taylorsville      City Council ( the " Council") met in regc t"
                                                                                  r` session on
August 3, 2022, to consider, among other things, approving a text amendment to the Taylorsville
Municipal Code Section 13. 25. 010, related to general landscaping standards for park strips; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE Section 13. 35. 040, notice of a
public hearing before the City' s Planning Commission was published on the city' s official website
on June 29, 2022; and


       WHEREAS, the notice of a public hearing before the City' s Planning Commission was
also published on the Utah Public Notice Website on June 29, 2022; and


        WHEREAS, the City' s Planning Commission held a properly noticed public hearing on
the proposed amendments on July 12, 2022, during which the Planning Commission voted 6- 0 to
recommend that the Council approve the proposed text amendment; and


       WHEREAS, although not required by City ordinances, the City Council heard courtesy
public comment on the proposed amendments during its regularly scheduled meeting on August
3, 2022; and


       WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Taylorsville to approve the proposed
amendments.




       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Taylorsville City Council that the
proposed text amendments to the Taylorsville Municipal Code Section 13. 25.010 are hereby
approved, as articulated in Exhibit" A."


       This ordinance, assigned Ordinance No. 22- 08, shall take effect as soon as it shall be
published or posted as required by law, deposited and recorded in the office of the City Recorder,
and accepted as required herein.

                                           17th
       PASSED AND APPROVED this                   day of August 2022.


                                             TAYLORS / L              C               OUNCIL


                                                                          A   ,   E
                                                       Anna Barbieri, Council Chair




                                                   3
        Q,          oRgT•/ e(<l                               VOTING:
     h.:•
                           Oi               //
             VO




                 CJ+, A            •             $            Meredith Harker                 Yea V' Nay
                                                              Ernest Burgess                  Yea r/ Nay
    tl • ,,                O   ,



    1111‘                                                     Robert Knudsen                  Yea V/' Nay
            1‘   64T E of r                                   Curt Cochran                    Yea     Nay
                                                                                                          r




                  Av.:wo
                                                              Anna Barbieri                   Yea if Nay


     PRESENTED to the Mayor                            of   Taylorsville for her   approval   this    f       '   day of
                  l'r              2022.
      pt/

     APPROVED this                     J'        day of     Cv-L7A       r             ,
                                                                                   2022.




                                                              Mayor Kristie S. Overson
ATTEST:




J   Broo s, Recorder



     DEPOSITED in the Recorder' s office this                        JV) day of 6A.,,          1" ,   2022.


     POSTED this ) Y/                   day of       64A.9it,,/Jt-      2022.
                                                                        ,




                                                                 4
                                        EXHIBIT A.
13. 25. 010: GENERAL LANDSCAPING STANDARDS:
The following standards shall apply to all districts:
   A. Preservation       Of Natural    Features: The preservation           of natural features that
        enhance the development and will benefit the community including trees, scenic
        points, view corridors, historic buildings or locations, unique geological formations,
        and other community assets shall be preserved and incorporated into the overall
        landscape plan.
   B.   Parking In Landscaped Areas: Parking is prohibited upon any front, side, rear, or
        interior landscaped areas or areas intended for landscape.
   C.   Park Strip Maintenance: Park strip maintenance shall be the responsibility of the
        adjacent property owner. Proper maintenance shall include the removal of all


        otherwise approved by the city, placement of concrete slabs or other impenetrable

        park strip is prohibited.
   C. Park Strips
        The park strip standards in this section are intended to maintain design flexibility
        and safety of park strips while ensuring access to public facilities, promote water
        conservation,     maintain    aesthetic   quality,   and   ensure    pedestrian   safety   and

        accessibility.
           1.    Applicability:
                 The requirements of this section apply to all park strips, defined as the area
                 within the street right of way situated between the back of curb and the
                 sidewalk or, if there is no sidewalk, back of curb and the right of way line.
                 These standards apply to all properties that have street curbs. Owners of
                 property on streets without curbs and gutters are not required to maintain
                 formal landscaping within the public right-of-way.
           2.    General Landscape Requirements:
                    a.   It is the property owner' s responsibility to landscape all park strips
                         adjacent to their property.
                    b.   All park strip landscaping must be maintained in a safe and well- kept
                         condition. Trash, debris, and noxious weeds are not permitted.
                    c.   Sufficient water shall be provided for vegetative ground cover,
                         annuals, perennials, shrubs, and trees to keep them in a healthy
                         condition.

                    d.   For surfaces with water meter lid, shutoff, or other utility or access,
                         landscaping must not inhibit access for a radius of at least twelve
                         12) inches. For surfaces around a fire hydrant, landscaping must not
                         inhibit access for a radius of at least three ( 3) feet.
            3.   Park Strip Ground Treatment:
                    a. Plant materials should cover twenty-five ( 25) percent or more of the
                       park strip surface when plants have reached maturity. For lots with
                       multiple street frontages, this standard shall be applied separately to
                       each    park  strip.  In new or replacement landscaping, it is



                                                   5
                recommended that water conserving plants are used. The use of drip
                irrigation rather than overhead spray systems is highly encouraged.
           b.   Installation of weed barrier fabric under mulch is required to inhibit
                weed growth. Weed barrier shall not be visible and must be covered
                with soil, mulch, or gravel.

           c.   Organic mulch materials such as bark may be used as water
                conserving mulch for plants and may also be used as the only
                material in portions of a park strip. It is recommended to use organic
                mulch that is three ( 3) to four (4) inches in depth for weed control.
        d.      Gravel, rocks, and boulders may be used on portions of the park
                strip. Large diameter rocks and boulders shall be kept a minimum of
                thirty ( 30) inches away from street trees that are in the park strip.
                Organic mulch or gravel shall be used near existing street trees.
        e.      Paving materials, limited to poured concrete, brick pavers, concrete
                pavers, or natural stone pavers, may be used in portions of a park
                strip subiect to the following:
                    i.     Paving materials shall be kept a minimum of thirty (30) inches
                           away from existing trees. Organic mulch or gravel shall be
                           used near existing street trees.
                    ii.    In   park strips     that are thirty- six ( 36) inches or less in width,

                           brick, concrete, or natural stone pavers may be used in ( one
                           hundred) 100 percent of the surface area. If concrete is used,
                           it shall be stamped with a brick, stone, or other decorative
                           pattern to distinguish it from the adjacent sidewalk. All hard
                           surface sections shall be installed to be flush with both the
                           sidewalk and curb and gutter. The use of water conserving
                           plants in combination with paving materials is encouraged.
                    iii.   In   park   strips    over     thirty- six ( 36) inches in width, paving
                           materials,    gravel,        rocks,    and boulders shall not exceed
                           seventy-five ( 75) percent of the total park strip surface area.
                           Poured concrete shall not be used except for pedestrian
                           pathways as outlined below.
4.   Pedestrian Pathways:
     For    safe,        convenient    access      to   vehicles   across   park   strips,   pedestrian

     pathways ( walkways through the park strip) are encouraged. The material
     used may be poured concrete, brick or concrete pavers, or natural stone
     pavers such as flagstone, or a combination of these. If poured concrete is
     used, the pedestrian pathway shall be not more than four ( 4) feet in width
     and shall be located to provide the most direct route through the park strip.
     The area of pedestrian pathway shall be included in calculating the
     percentage of inorganic surface in the park strip.
5.   Park strip prohibited materials include:
           a.   Asphalt;
           b.   Concrete, except as allowed in subsection ( 3) above;
           c.   Thorn- bearing plants;




                                                  6
                   d.    Except for trees, no plant, monument, boulder, or other object that
                         exceeds three ( 3) feet in height at maturity is permitted within the
                         sight visibility triangle.
                   e.    Retaining walls, fences, steps, and other similar structural
                         encroachments.

        6.    Flexibility Measures:
              The director may modify the standards of this section to better achieve its
              intent and address site- specific conditions such as, among other things,
              steep grades between the curb and sidewalk, the presence of canals or
              drainage      channels,     limited       access            to        irrigation,       and      urban              streetscape

              treatments.
J - Park     Strip      Hard Surface And Strectscapc Materials:
                                                              Park strip hard surface
   material includes material that is not plant material, does not need watering, and
   is   a    permanent       surface.     Examples              would             include         colored   concrete,               stamped

   concrete, e. g.,       Bomanite, concrete pavers, or rock and gravel mulch ( 1 inch minus
   in size).

                                                   ea   -   ..    -   -       -     -     •-
                                    e




   commercial, transit corridor, professional office, and mixed use. All other zones
   require      one      hundred     percent ( 100%)                  landscape                   materials.    In         general,      it   is
   preferable        to have no more than fifty percent ( 50%)                                 of the park strip area covered

                                                                                                                1 •-- •   -- -•



   to have the entire park strip arga covered in hard surface, the material must have
   physical separations every four ( I) to five feet ( 5'), including an expansion joint

   between the sections and adjacent to the sidewalk, curb, and gutter. Any surface
   around a water meter lid, shutoff, streetlight, or other cover or access must have
   at   least twelve inches ( 12")         of cl        r space around the entire cover, lid, etc. Any
   surface around a fire hydrant must have a three foot( 3') cl arancc. All hard surface


   and gutter. The use of colored concrete is allowed only when the sections arc

   preferable in order to blend with the landscape. Color should go through the entire
   depth      of   the   material   and   should        not      be       a       surface         color   only. No unpatterned
   concrete is allowed.
   Landscaped sections used in conjunction with hard surface sections should not
                                                        wide. If the park strip is five t ( 5')
   feet ( 5')
           wide, planting may include trees ( planted equidistant from the sidewalk
   and curb and gutter in a planter bed no smaller than 5 feet wide by 5 feet long),

   or   colored         mulch.   Planting within fifteen feet ( 15') of the driveway should not
   exceed       three feet ( 3')    in height. Drip irrigation systems arc highly encouraged and
   landscaping shall comply with applicable water efficiency guidelines. ( Ord. 12 15,
   7 11 2012)




                                                            7
