                                   TAYLORSVILLE, UTAH
                                    ORDINANCE NO. 23- 07


      AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF TAYLORSVILLE APPROVING A TEXT
      AMENDMENT TO TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE SECTION 8. 12. 140,
  RELATED TO PLACEMENT OF CHICKEN COOPS ON IRREGULARLY SHAPED
                                           PARCELS.


       WHEREAS, the Taylorsville City Council ( the" Council") met in regular session on June
7, 2023, to consider, among other things, approving a text amendment to the Taylorsville
Municipal Code Sections 8. 12. 140 related to the placement of chicken coops on irregularly shaped
parcels; and



       WHEREAS, pursuant to TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE Section 13. 35. 040, notice of a
public hearing before the City' s Planning Commission was posted at City Hall on April 29, 2023;
and




       WHEREAS, the notice of a public hearing before the City' s Planning Commission was
also published on the Utah Public Notice Website on May 5, 2023; and

        WHEREAS, the City' s Planning Commission held a properly noticed public hearing on
the proposed amendments on May 9, 2023, during which the Planning Commission voted 6- 0 to
recommend that the Council approve the proposed text amendment; and


       WHEREAS, although not required by City ordinances, the City Council heard courtesy
public comment on the proposed amendments during its regularly scheduled meeting on June 7,
2023; and


       WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Taylorsville to approve the proposed
amendments.




       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Taylorsville City Council that the
proposed text amendments to the Taylorsville Municipal Code Section 8. 12. 140, related to
placement of chicken coops on irregularly shaped parcels, are hereby approved, as articulated in
Exhibit" A."


       This ordinance, assigned Ordinance No. 23- 07, shall take effect as soon as it shall be
published or posted as required by law, deposited and recorded in the office of the City Recorder,
and accepted as required herein.




                                                 3
                                         EXHIBIT A

8. 12. 140:                 RESIDENTIAL CHICKEN PERMIT:
  A.  Where permitted by the land development code, persons may keep backyard
chickens on single-family owner occupied residential and agricultural lots in accordance
with the provisions of this section: ( Ord.   10- 07, 5- 19- 2010; amd. Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)
       1.
       Application; Obtaining Permit: It is unlawful for any person to keep backyard
chickens without first making application for and obtaining a backyard residential
chicken permit.

    2. At Large: It is unlawful for any person who is the owner, keeper, or temporary
custodian of any backyard residential chicken to allow the animal( s) to be at large, off
the premises or outside the approved enclosure.
    3.  Unsanitary Conditions: It is unlawful for any person to keep and maintain in an
unclean or unsanitary condition any coop, enclosure or other structure or area in which
any backyard chicken is kept. All droppings must be cleaned at least once a week.
    4. Nuisance: It is unlawful for the owner or keeper of any backyard chicken to
allow the animal( s) to be a nuisance to any neighbor, including, but not limited to,
creating noxious odors from the animals, their waste, coop, or related structure or
generating noise of a loud and persistent nature.
    5. Subject To Inspection: All places where any backyard chickens are kept shall be
subject to inspection prior to a permit being issued for cleanliness, health, and sanitation
purposes by a code enforcement official, animal control officer, or representative of the
Salt Lake Valley health department. A code enforcement official, animal control officer,
or representative of the Salt Lake Valley health department shall also be authorized to
inspect any property where backyard chickens are kept based on any complaint or
observation that the requirements of this section or conditional use permit requirement
are in violation.
    6.  Female Chickens Only: Only female chickens may be kept. No ducks, geese,
turkeys, peafowl, crowing hens, or roosters may be kept. No other bird species shall be
kept except as provided by this code and birds normally and generally considered
household or indoor pets. ( Ord. 10- 07, 5- 19- 2010)
       7.    Accessory Buildings: Chicken coops shall be considered accessory buildings
and are subject to the area provisions of the Taylorsville land development code. Height
and setback provisions shall be determined by this section but shall in no cases violate
setback or height limitations of the zoning ordinance with the exception of proximity to a
main structure. ( Ord.    10- 07, 5- 19- 2010; amd. Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)
       8.    Feed And Water Access: Chickens shall have access to feed and water at all
times in an area that is protected from wild birds, rodents, and other predators. Any
stored feed must be kept in a rodent and predator proof container.
       9.
        Personal Use Only: Backyard Residential chickens shall be for personal use
only. The selling of eggs or fertilizer or the breeding of chickens for commercial use is
prohibited.

       10.    Slaughtering Prohibited: The slaughtering of backyard residential chickens on
the premises is prohibited.
       11.
         Dead Birds; Rotting Eggs: Dead birds and rotting eggs shall be removed within
twenty four (24) hours and properly disposed of.


                                                  5
         e.         Chicken coops shall be maintained in good condition.
         f.    Chicken coops shall be constructed such that:
               1)     It is freestanding.
               2)     Is easily accessible for cleaning and maintenance.
               3)     Is enclosed on all sides and has a roof and door(s).
               4)     Doors must be able to be shut and locked.
               5)     No chicken coop shall exceed eight feet (8') in height.
               6)     The coop shall be covered with predator and bird proof wire with a
                                                1/
maximum  opening of one- fourth inch ( 4"). The wire shall be buried at least three inches
3") and bent outward at least another twenty four inches ( 24") to prevent rodents from
burrowing into the structure unless the coop is elevated off the ground at least twelve
inches ( 12").
               7)     All openings and vents shall be covered with predator and bird proof wire
with a maximum opening of one-fourth inch ( 1/ 4").
     g. Coops may be relocated from time to time within the back yard provided that it
remains within or adjacent to the enclosure and adheres to all setback standards.
    15.         Backyard Residential Chicken Permit Application Requirements:
         Prior to the issuance of any backyard residential chicken permit, the applicant
         a.

shall submit the following information:
               1)     A completed and signed application.
               2)     Appropriate fee.
               3)
           A site plan showing the exact location of the enclosure and coop, including
measured distances from all dwellings and property lines, including buildings on
adjacent properties.

               4)     A photograph or illustration of the proposed enclosure and coop, including
construction materials, height, and other dimensions.
               5)     Signed consent to an on site inspection of all enclosures, coops and
surroundings.

    16.         Side And Rear Setbacks:
         a.         Minimum rear yard: Three feet ( 3') minimum from any coop to any rear
property line.
          b.        Side yard setback: Three feet ( 3') minimum from any coop to any side property
line.
        17.     Maximum Number Of Chickens:
                     Lot Size ( Square Feet)                      Maximum Number Of Chickens
                     Lot Size ( Square Feet)                      Maximum Number Of Chickens

 Less than 5, 000                                         0

 5, 000 to 5, 999                                         2

 6, 000 to 6, 999                                         3

 7, 000 to 7, 999                                         4

 8, 000 to 8, 999                                         5

 9, 000 to 9, 999                                         6

 10, 000 to 11, 999                                       8

 12, 000 or more                                          10




                                                      7
