                                    TAYLORSVILLE, UTAH
                                     ORDINANCE NO. 23- 08

       AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF TAYLORSVILLE APPROVING A TEXT
      AMENDMENT TO TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE CHAPTER 13. 25 AND
  SECTIONS OF CHAPTER 13. 36 RELATED TO UPDATES TO WATER EFFICIENT
                                LANDSCAPING STANDARDS.


        WHEREAS, the Taylorsville City Council ( the " Council") met in regular session on June

21, 2023, to consider, among other things, approving a text amendment to Taylorsville Municipal
Code Chapter 13. 25 and sections of Chapter 13. 36 related to updates to water efficient landscaping
standards; and



        WHEREAS, pursuant to TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE Section 13. 35. 040, notice of a
public hearing before the City' s Planning Commission was posted at City Hall on June 2, 2023;
and




        WHEREAS, the notice of a public hearing before the City' s Planning Commission was
also published on the Utah Public Notice Website on June 2, 2023; and


        WHEREAS, the City' s Planning Commission held a properly noticed public hearing on
the proposed amendments on June 13, 2023, during which the Planning Commission voted 6- 0 to
recommend that the Council approve the proposed text amendment; and


       WHEREAS, although not required by City ordinances, the City Council heard courtesy
public comment on the proposed amendments during its regularly scheduled meeting on June 13,
2023; and


        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Taylorsville to approve the proposed
amendments.




        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Taylorsville City Council that the
proposed text amendments to the Taylorsville Municipal Code Chapter 13. 25, Sections 13. 36. 020,
13. 36.090, 13. 36. 130, 13. 36. 170 and 13. 36.210, related to updates to water efficient landscaping
standards, are hereby approved, as articulated in Exhibit" A."

        This ordinance, assigned Ordinance No. 23- 08, shall take effect as soon as it shall be
published or posted as required by law, deposited, and recorded in the office of the City Recorder,
and accepted as required herein.




                                                  3
            PASSED AND APPROVED this 21st day of June, 2023.


                                                            TAYLORSVILLE CITY COUNCIL


            7----
                07
                     P°
                          7oN                               By:     Z./
     V....„     0         6''"-. Z--
                                   r    jl'
                                                                  Robert Knudsen, Council Chair

        S                      I   rn




            e
                SAL          I                ,
                                                            VOTING:


   1449/.;:••.;••                                           Meredith Harker                     Yea    /Nay
      k‘,       0`       ZP 4                               Ernest Burgess                      Yea
                     e                                      Robert Knudsen                      Yea /
                                                                                                        Nay
                                                                                                        Nay
                                                            Curt Cochran                        Yea + - Nay
                                                            Anna Barbieri                       Yea     Nay 1


            PRESENTED to Mayor of Taylorsville for her approval this                    1.-/-         day of June, 2023.



            APPROVED this ,,Q                     day of June, 2023.


                                                                                                       l'"---
                                                                                                           4C- Cq__
                                                                       1s-
                                                                                                                      Th

                                                            Mayor Kristie S. Overson
ATTEST:




Jil ie Brooks, Recorder




            DEPOSITED in the Recorder' s office this 22nd day of June, 2023.

            POSTED this 22nd day of June, 2023.




                                                               4
                                                     EXHIBIT A




                                             CHAPTER 13. 25
                                  LANDSCAPING STANDARDS
SECTION:

13. 25. 010: General Landscaping Standards

13. 25. 020: Commercial, Office, Multi- Family, And Industrial Landscaping Requirements

13. 25. 030: Tree Stewardship



13. 25. 010: GENERAL LANDSCAPING STANDARDS:
The following standards shall apply to all districts:
  A.        Preservation Of Natural Features: The preservation of natural features that enhance the
development and will benefit the community including trees, scenic points, view corridors,
historic buildings or locations, unique geological formations, and other community assets shall
be preserved and incorporated into the overall landscape plan.

  B.        Parking In Landscaped Areas: Parking is prohibited upon any front, side, rear, or interior
landscaped areas or areas intended for landscape.

   C. Park Strips: The park strip standards in this section are intended to maintain design
flexibility and safety of park strips while ensuring access to public facilities, promote water
conservation, maintain aesthetic-quality quality, and ensure pedestrian safety and accessibility.

       1.
        Applicability: The requirements of this section apply to all park strips, defined as the area
within the street right of way situated between the back of curb and the sidewalk or, if there is no
sidewalk, back of curb and the right of way line. These standards apply to all properties that
have street curbs. Owners of property on streets without curbs and gutters are not required
reguired to maintain formal landscaping within the public right-of-way.
       2.        General Landscape Requirements:

            a.    It is the property owner's responsibility to landscape all park strips adjacent to their
property.

            b.    All park strip landscaping must be maintained in a safe and well- kept condition. Trash,
debris, and noxious weeds are not permitted.

            c.    Sufficient water shall be provided for vegetative ground cover, annuals, perennials,
shrubs, and trees to keep them in a healthy condition.
            d.    For surfaces with water meter lid, shutoff, or other utility or access, landscaping must
not inhibit access for a radius of at least twelve ( 12) inches. For surfaces around a fire hydrant,
landscaping must not inhibit access for a radius of at least three ( 3) feet.
       3.        Park Strip Ground Treatment:


                                                          5
          Plant materials should cover twenty-five ( 25) percent or more of the park strip surface
         a.

when plants have reached maturity. For lots with multiple street frontages, this standard shall be
applied separately to each park strip. In new or replacement landscaping, it is recommended
that water conserving plants are used. The use of drip irrigation rather than overhead spray
systems            is                     edrequired.


         b.        Installation of weed barrier fabric under mulch is required to inhibit weed growth. Weed
barrier shall not be visible and must be covered with soil, mulch, or gravel.

      c. Organic mulch materials such as bark may be used as water conserving mulch for
plants and may also be used as the only material in portions of a park strip. It is recommended
to use organic mulch that is three ( 3) to four (4) inches in depth for weed control.

         d.
          Gravel, rocks, and boulders may be used on portions of the park strip. Large diameter
rocks and boulders shall be kept a minimum of thirty (30) inches away from street trees that are
in the park strip. Organic mulch or gravel shall be used near existing street trees.

         Paving materials, limited to poured concrete, brick pavers, concrete pavers, or natural
         e.

stone pavers, may be used in portions of a park strip subject to the following:
         1) Paving materials shall be kept a minimum of thirty (30) inches away from existing
trees. Organic mulch or gravel shall be used near existing street trees.
               2)
             In park strips that are thirty-six ( 36) inches or less in width, brick, concrete, or
natural stone pavers may be used in ( one hundred) 100 percent of the surface area. If concrete
is used, it shall be stamped with a brick, stone, or other decorative pattern to distinguish it from
the adjacent sidewalk. All hard surface sections shall be installed to be flush with both the
sidewalk and curb and gutter. The use of water conserving plants in combination with paving
materials is encouraged.

               3)        In park strips over thirty-six ( 36) inches in width, paving materials, gravel, rocks, and
boulders shall not exceed seventy-five ( 75) percent of the total park strip surface area. Poured
concrete shall not be used except for pedestrian pathways as outlined below.

    4.        Pedestrian Pathways: For safe, convenient access to vehicles across park strips,
pedestrian pathways ( walkways through the park strip) are encouraged. The material used may
be poured concrete, brick or concrete pavers, or natural stone pavers such as flagstone, or a
combination of these. If poured concrete is used, the pedestrian pathway shall be not more than
four (4) feet in width and shall be located to provide the most direct route through the park strip.
The area of pedestrian pathway shall be included in calculating the percentage of inorganic
surface in the park strip.

    5.        Park strip prohibited materials include:
              a.        Lawn
              b.               a.   Asphalt;
              c_               b.   Concrete, except as allowed in subsection ( 3) above;
              d.               c.   Thorn- bearing plants;
              e.               d.   Except for trees, no plant, monument, boulder, or other object that exceeds
                        three ( 3) feet in height at maturity is permitted within the sight visibility triangle.
              f.               e.   Retaining walls, fences, steps, and other similar structural encroachments.
    6.        Flexibility Measures: The director may modify the standards of this section to better
achieve its intent and address site- specific conditions such as, among other things, steep


                                                                 6
grades between the curb and sidewalk, the presence of canals or drainage channels, limited
access to irrigation, and urban streetscape treatments. ( Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012; amd. Ord. 22-

08, 8- 17- 2022)

D.      Water Efficient Landscaping:

The city finds that it is in the public' s interest to conserve public water resources and promote
water efficient landscaping. The purpose of this section is to protect and enhance the
community's environmental, economic, recreational, and aesthetic resources by promoting
efficient use of water in the community' s landscapes, reduce water waste, and establish a
structure for designing, installing, and maintaining water efficient landscapes throughout the city.

        1.   Applicability:

       The following standards shall apply to:

                   a. Front and side yards in single- family ( R- 1) and two-family ( R- 2) residential
                   zoning districts.

                   b. In all other zones, these standards shall apply to the entire lot or parcel.

                   c_ Lots or parcels in the open space zoning district are exempt from the
                   standards in this section.

       2. Landscaping Standards

                   a. Irrigation should be appropriate for the designated plant material to achieve
                   the highest water efficiency. Each irrigation valve should irrigate landscaping with
                   similar site, slope and soil conditions, and plant materials with similar watering
                   needs.



                   b. Drip irrigation or bubblers in all landscaped areas except lawn areas are
                   required. Drip irrigation systems are to be equipped with a pressure regulator,
                   filter, flush- end assembly, and any other appropriate components.

                   c. Separate irrigation valves are to be used for lawn and planting beds.

                   d. Irrigation systems shall be controlled by a smart irrigation controller which
                   automatically adjusts the frequency and/ or duration of irrigation in response to
                   changing weather conditions. Controllers that are equipped with automatic rain
                   delay or rain shut-off capabilities are recommended.

                   e. Above- ground irrigation shall only be permitted between the hours of eight
                   o' clock (8: 00) P. M. and ten o' clock ( 10: 00) A. M. to reduce water loss from wind
                   and evaporation. Special exceptions may be granted by the Director when more
                   frequent watering is necessary to establish newly planted landscape areas.

                   f. Lawn shall not be installed in park strips, paths, or on slopes greater than 25%
                   or 4: 1 grade and be less than 8 feet wide at its narrowest point. Lawn limitations
                   do not apply to small residential lots with less than 250 square feet of landscaped
                   area.



                   q. Lawn areas in single- family ( R- 1) and two-family ( R- 2) zoning districts shall not
                   exceed   35% of the total landscaped area of the front and side yards.




                                                       7
                    h. Outside of active recreation areas, in commercial, industrial, institutional, and
                    multi- family development common area landscapes, lawn areas shall not exceed
                    20% of the total landscaped area of the lot.

                    i. At least 3- 4 inches of mulch, permeable to air and water, are to be used in
                    planting beds to control weeds and improve the appearance of the landscaping.

                    j. At maturity, landscapes are recommended to have enough plant material
                     perennials and shrubs)   to create at least 25% living   plant cover at maturity at the
                    ground plane, not including tree canopies.

                    k. Plants selected for landscaping should consist of plants that are well suited to
                    the microclimate and soil conditions.


13. 25. 020: COMMERCIAL, OFFICE, MULTI- FAMILY, AND INDUSTRIAL
LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
 A.   Front Yard: Front yard landscaping is measured from the front property line( s) after any
required street dedication. This standard shall apply to all street frontages.
    1.  All Commercial, Office, Multi- Family, And Industrial Districts: In all commercial and
industrial zones, a minimum of fifteen feet ( 15') of front yard landscaping shall be required.
    2.       Berming: The use of berms ( random sculptured mounds), twelve ( 12) to eighteen inches
 18") high above the curb level, are required in all front landscape areas where found to be
practical by the director.
    3.       Street Trees: Two inch ( 2") minimum caliper street trees shall be planted in the front
park strip area ( centered between the sidewalk and the curb to minimize tree conflicts and to
maximize tree root zone) where the park strip is a minimum of five feet (5') in width, according to
the varieties and spacing specified in applicable standards. Where the sidewalk has been
placed against the curb, street trees shall be planted four feet (4') behind the sidewalk.

    4.       Front Landscape: Front landscape areas shall include a combination of trees, rocks,
gravel, and plant materials.       Plant materials shall cover a minimum of 25% of the landscaped
area. sod as well as areas of trees, shrubs, ground covers, and mulch.



park strip in a commercial district allowing the sidewalk to be placed against the curb. If the
elimination of the park strip is approved by the planning commi- cion, the sidewalk against the
curb shall be increased in width to six feet ( 6') or wider as per applicable standards. In these



       6.    Nonexistent Park Strips: Where a sidewalk exists directly adjacent to a public right of
way, the front landscaping shall be a minimum of twenty feet ( 20') in depth.

  B.        Side And Rear Yards:

       1.    There shall be a minimum of five feet (5') of landscaping between parking areas and
side or rear property lines ( except between commercial uses where said landscaping is not
visible from areas of public access) and a minimum of five feet (5') of landscaping between an
access driveway and a side or rear property line unless said driveway is to be used for common
access by an adjacent lot.




                                                       8
       2.    Areas not visible from the street shall have one landscape area in the amount of one
hundred ( 100) square feet for every seventy five (75) linear feet of property line not visible from
the public right of way.

  C.        Landscaping Within Parking Areas:
       1.        Landscaping within all parking and driveway areas shall comprise a minimum five
percent ( 5%)          of the total square footage of those areas. In addition, the required front, side, and
rear landscaping ( parking area shall be defined to include all asphalt areas with parking spaces
and  driveways). The placement of this landscaping shall be within parking areas to break up the
mass of asphalt as well as adjacent to the building for foundation landscaping. Such
landscaping shall not contain lawn and shall be composed of natural elements including ground
cover, shrubs, trees ( evergreen and           deciduous), and combinations of mulch.

       2.    All traffic islands shall be landscaped and be considered as a portion of the required five
percent ( 5%)          parking lot landscaping and shall be a minimum of five feet (5') in width.
       3.
        Landscape planters and/ or raised barrier sidewalks shall be installed along buildings
 except where not visible from public access areas or loading areas) and any paved areas
where visible from the street to provide safety to pedestrians, to protect the structure, and to
provide foundation landscaping to soften a structure' s appearance.
    4. All landscaped areas abutting any paved area shall include a six inch ( 6") high concrete
curb. Concrete bumper stops are not acceptable.

       5.    At intersections of streets, driveways, sidewalks, etc., landscaping shall be limited to a
height of not more than three feet ( 3') above street level within the area required for minimum
sight distances for local roads and streets.

  D.        Undeveloped Areas:

       1.        All undeveloped areas shall be maintained free of weeds and trash.

       2.        All expansion areas or pad sites shall be maintained with drought tolerant sodnative
seed mix, mulch, or other materials as approved by the director until such time as construction
is started on that building pad.
  E. Adjacent To Residential Districts: A minimum ten foot ( 10') width of landscaping shall be
provided on an applicant's property, including a combination of trees and shrubs ( evergreen and
deciduous), and ground covers shall be provided to create a buffer for the adjacent residential
district.

  F.        Installation:

       1.
      It shall be the responsibility of the developer to grade, place topsoil, seed or sod, install
automatic sprinkler irrigation systems, and properly plant trees, shrubs, and other approved
plant materials.


       2.        All trees planted on site less than two inch ( 2") caliper shall be double staked.

       3.
       All landscaping shall be completed in accordance with the plans submitted and
approved by staff.
            a.     All landscape work must be installed prior to a certificate of occupancy of the building
being issued or as otherwise approved by the director as seasonal conditions may dictate.


                                                           9
            b.     The developer shall bond for such landscape improvements as part of the private
improvement bond to ensure that installations are completed as submitted and approved.

  G.         Maintenance:

       1.
        It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to properly maintain landscaped areas
in accordance with the approved site plan and landscape plan which includes watering, mowing,
proper pruning, fertilizing, the removal and replacement of dead plant materials in a timely
manner, and the maintenance of the irrigation systems to eliminate waste of water.

       All pruning shall be accomplished according to good horticultural standards. Trees shall
       2.
be pruned to promote healthy trees and to accommodate street maintenance and garbage
collection ( minimum height over street 131/ 2 feet and over sidewalks 7 feet) and as necessary to
promote healthy growth.

        Unless approval is otherwise provided by the director, trees shall be allowed to attain
       3.
their normal size and shall not be severely pruned up from the ground or " hat racked" in order to
permanently maintain growth at a reduced height. Pruning trees solely for the purpose of
exposure is prohibited.

       4.        Pruning trees for traffic safety reasons shall be reviewed and approved by the city
engineer.


  H.        Vegetation Removal:

   1.  Once the required landscaping has been installed, it shall not be removed without the
approval of the community development department.
    2. Removed vegetation shall be replaced with equal or better quality plant materials. Trees
that are necessarily removed shall be replaced with trees with comparable total caliper. Street
trees that are necessarily removed shall be replaced with comparable original landscape plan
caliper in compliance with the city street tree guide unless otherwise approved by the director.

        When utility connections or other disturbances are made to existing landscaped areas,
       3.
the existing landscaping must be replaced to its previous condition. Other modifications of
landscaped areas shall require approval by the director.
  I.        Minimum Tree Size: The minimum size of all trees planted on a development site shall be
as follows:

       1.        Street Trees: Two inch ( 2")   caliper minimum as measured eighteen              inches ( 18") above
grade.


                                                                                      11/
       2.        All Other Trees: All other trees on site, one and one- half inch (         2")   caliper minimum as

measured eighteen             inches ( 18")   above grade.


       3.        Evergreen Trees: Six foot (6') minimum height above grade.

  J.        Tree Mix: There shall be a mix of evergreen and deciduous trees on all development sites
to allow for a green winterscape. A minimum of forty percent ( 40%) of all trees on the proposed
site shall be evergreens where found to be practical by the director.

  K.         Existing Trees:




                                                             10
        1.
        The retention of existing healthy, desirable tree species on site is strongly encouraged.
Buildings and parking areas should be designed around existing trees, wherever possible.
        2.         A tree survey on an existing site may be required as determined by the director.
   L.Minimum Number Of Trees: A minimum ratio of one tree per every five hundred ( 500)
square feet of on site landscaping shall be provided on the overall site plan.
  M.              Documentation To Be Submitted For Plan Approval: A landscape plan documentation
package shall be submitted to and approved by the director prior to the issuance of any permit.
A copy of the approved landscape plan documentation package shall be provided to the
property owner or site manager and to the local retail water purveyor. The landscape plan
documentation package shall be prepared by a registered landscape architect or a landscape
designer. The irrigation plan shall be prepared by an irrigation designer or a landscape architect.
The landscape plan documentation package shall consist of the following items:

             1.     Project Data Sheet: The project data sheet shall contain the following:
                   a.    Project name and address;
                   b.    Applicant or applicant' s agent' s name, address, phone, e- mail, and fax number;
                   c.    Landscape designer/ landscape architect's name, address, phone, e- mail, and fax
                         number; and Landscape contractor's name, address, phone, e- mail and fax number.

              2.        Planting Plan: A detailed planting plan shall be drawn at a scale that clearly identifies
the following:
                   a.    Location of all plant materials, a legend with botanical and common names, and size
                         of plant materials; Property lines and street names
                   b.    Existing and proposed buildings, walls, fences, light poles, utilities, paved areas, and
                         other site improvements; Existing trees and plant materials to be removed or
                         retained; and

                   c.    Designation of hydrozones.

              3.        Irrigation Plan: A detailed irrigation plan shall be drawn at the same scale as the
planting plan and shall contain the layout of the irrigation system and a legend summarizing the
type and size of all components of the system, including manufacturer name and model
numbers.


Xeriscape:

        1.         Xeriscape is encouraged in required landscape areas. A true xeriscape may include a

some dry landscape materials.
        2.         All xeriscape design and installation shall be completed by a profccsional landscape
designer and installer certified in the design and installation of xeriscape. ( Ord. 12 15, 7 11
20-1- 2-)

13. 25. 030: TREE STEWARDSHIP:
  A.              Purpose: The city prides itself on its many areas of public and private landscapes, both
natural and enhanced, and recognizes the importance of trees within the community. It is
declared to be a policy of the city that:
        1.         City property will be landscaped to enhance the natural beauty of the city.




                                                               11
       2.    Responsibilities of city departments be coordinated to encourage quality landscaping.
       3.    Landscaped city properties be effectively managed.
       4.    The city plant species of trees that are aesthetically pleasing, require less maintenance
so as to prevent damage to sidewalks and streets and reduce risks to pedestrians and
motorists), work with utilities, and conserve natural resources.


       5.    The street environment be made hospitable through landscaping.
       6.Residents of the city be encouraged to participate in beautification efforts through
installing and maintaining quality trees and landscaping on private property.

To fulfill this policy, this section is enacted and intended to establish a tree stewardship
ordinance. This section may be referred to as the TREE STEWARDSHIP ORDINANCE.
  B.        Urban Forester: The city shall designate a qualified person or entity as the city's urban
forester, who shall:

       1.
       Be responsible for the long term management, health, maintenance, inventory, planting,
and design of city trees in cooperation with the director.
    2.       Foster and maintain partnerships between public and private parties for the benefit of
trees.

       3.Facilitate communication, coordination, cooperation, and education for the stewardship
of city and private trees.
    4.       Keep abreast of new information and research in arboriculture.
       5.    Train and supervise city crews or contract providers so the best methods of tree care are
practiced in the community.

       6.    Work with engineers, architects, and the community development department during the
design phase of development.

  C.   Citizen Responsibilities: Citizens/ property owners, occupants, and their agents shall have
the following responsibilities for the protection of trees in park strips abutting their real property
except in those park strips that are maintained by the city.
       1.    Periodic watering and fertilization of city trees as necessary to maintain good health and
vigor.


       2.    Protect city trees in park strips from damage caused by lawn mowers, weed trimmers,
snowblowers, and similar equipment.


       3.    Protect city trees in park strips from damage caused by attachment of any items such as
signs, nails, wires, ropes, and chains.


    4. The species of trees planted in the park strips should comply with the city street tree
guide or otherwise approved by the director.

       5.    Remove private trees or limbs that have fallen upon a city street, property, or sidewalk.

       6.    Maintain ground covers except in those park strips maintained by the city.




                                                      12
       7.    Notify the city of any hazard tree.
       8.    Raking, cleanup, and properly disposing of leaves that fall from city and private trees so
leaf fall does not impede the stormwater system.

    9.  The city shall have no liability for the failure of any tree or landscaping installed by
private parties on other than city maintained property.
  D.        City Responsibilities: The city shall assume responsibility for:
     1.  Tree care in city owned and operated parks, on the grounds of city buildings, and in park
strips that the city administration has designated will be maintained by the city.
    2.       Pruning of city trees, as necessary, after appropriate notification to property owners.
    3.       Pruning of city trees in the public rights of way and utility easements.
   4.        Removal of diseased or dying city trees that are beyond reclamation.
    5.       Removal of city trees and/ or limbs that the city determines to be a hazard after
appropriate notification.


    6.       Maintenance of planted areas on city property and specifically designated city rights of
way.

  E. Responsibility For Correcting Private Hazard Trees: Where a hazard tree exists upon
private property, the property owner and all other persons having control of the property on
which such hazard tree exists shall be responsible to mitigate, abate, remove, or correct the
hazard. Any tree that is a hazard tree is a public nuisance.

    1.  It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, either as owner, agent, or occupant, to
create, aid in creating, or maintain a hazard tree.
   2.   If the city determines that a particular tree is a hazard tree, the city may give a written
notice to the owner, occupant, or agent of any lot, building, or premises in or upon which a
hazard tree is found, or to the person who may be the cause of such hazard tree to remove,
mitigate, abate, or correct the hazard, including its recommendation as to the most effective
method of doing so.
    3.       Notice under this section may be served by personal service or by mailing the notice to
the person, firm, or corporation by certified mail ( return receipt requested), and posting a copy
on the property a minimum of twenty eight (28) calendar days in advance of further action.
   4.   If the hazard tree is not mitigated, abated, removed, or corrected within twenty eight (28)
additional calendar days after the notice is complete, the city may mitigate, abate, correct, or
remove the hazard tree at the expense of such person, firm, or corporation or may take further
action as determined.

    5. The city may recover the costs and expenses incurred in mitigating, abating, correcting,
or removing the hazard tree, serving notice, and the costs of a lawsuit, if any.
       6.    If the person, firm, or corporation disputes or denies the city's determination that the tree
is a hazard tree or refuses to remove or permit removal, the city may bring an action to abate
the hazard tree as a public nuisance. If the city is granted a judgment, the city may recover the
costs of having the public nuisance abated.



                                                       13
       7.        The city, its agents, or employees, if acting in good faith, incur no liability for causing
removal of a hazard tree.

    8. Notice of appeal of the city's determination that a tree is a hazard tree may be filed with
the city recorder within ten ( 10) days of service of the notice to abate. Appeals of the urban
forester's decisions shall be heard by the mayor or his designee within fifteen ( 15) days of
receipt of the appeal, which decision is final.

  F.        Protection Of City Trees:
       1.        It shall be unlawful for any person to do any of the following:

            a.     Construct a concrete, asphalt, brick, or gravel sidewalk within eighteen inches ( 18") of
a city tree that damages any part ( roots, crown, trunk) of the tree so as to cause injury or death
to the tree.

            b.     Fill up the ground area around any city tree so as to shut off air, light, or water from its
roots.


     c.  Pile building material, equipment, or other substance on or near a city tree so as to
cause injury to the tree.
            d.     Pour or spray any injurious matter on or around a city tree.
    e.  Injure any city tree, tree stake, or guard with any vehicle or animal, or in any other
manner causing injury to any city tree, shrub, ground cover, or lawn.
            f.
           Post any sign, tree stake, or guard, or by fastening any guywire, cable, or rope to any
city tree, tree stake, or guard.

            g.     Prune trees for commercial exposure.

       2.Any person doing construction, excavation, or demolition work in the near vicinity of a
city tree shall protect the tree from injury or damage with a substantial protective barrier. Said
barrier shall not be less than four feet (4') high and have a two foot ( 2') radius or to a distance in
feet from the tree equal to the diameter of the tree trunk in inches measured four and one- half
feet (41/ 2') aboveground, whichever is greater. All building materials, extra dirt, or other debris
shall be kept outside the barrier. The city engineer must be consulted about any deviation to this
standard.


       3.        No person shall use a city tree for any unauthorized purpose.

  G.         Trees Planted In Park Strips: Trees planted in park strips or other public rights of way
should be in conformance with the streetscape plan.

  H.  Interference With Service: It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with city
personnel or city contractors under the direction of the city's designee in the performance of
their duties.

  I.Preservation Of Trees During Development: Tree surveys must identify both city and
      trees or groves of trees of at least two inch ( 2") caliper and shall indicate which, if any,
private

may be preserved or relocated. Where practically possible, site designs should be modified to
accommodate significant tree cover. Proper care should be taken during the construction phase
to protect tree root zones from compaction and excessive excavation. Clear cutting an area of
trees on a site will not be allowed unless determined appropriate by the director.


                                                            14
  J.  Violation And Penalty: Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of an infraction. In addition to other remedies provided for herein or otherwise provided by law, if
the violation of any provision of this chapter causes the injury, mutilation, or death of a tree,
shrub, or other plant located on city owned or maintained property, the violating party shall pay
the cost of repair or replacement of such tree, shrub, or other plant. The replacement value of
trees and/ or shrubs shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of the " Guide For
Plant Appraisal" as published by the International Society Of Arboriculture. The city may pursue
criminal or civil actions against any person or entity who violates this chapter as is deemed
appropriate, including abatement or injunctive relief. (Ord. 12- 15, 7- 11- 2012)


  A.        Purpose: The city finds that it is in the public' s interest to conserve public water resources




  B.        Commercial, Industrial, And Multi Family Development:
       1.        Applicability: The provisions _


installed landscaping in single family projects that required project review and approval by the



registered historical sites.

       2.        Documentation To Be Submitted For Plan Approval: A landscape plan documentation
package shall be submitted to and approved by the director prior to the issuance of any permit.
A copy of the approved landscape plan documentation package shall be provided to the
property owner or site manager and to the local retail water purveyor. The landscape plan
documentation package shall be prepared by a registered landscape architect or a landscape
designer. The irrigation plan shall be prepared by an irrigation designer or a landscape architect.
The landscape plan documentation package shall consist of the following items:
            a.     Project Data Sheet: The project data sheet shall contain the following:
                 Project name and address;

                 Applicant or applicant' s agent' s name, address, phone, e mail, and fax number;



number; and


                 Landscape contractor' s name, address, phone, c mail and fax number.

            b.     Planting Plan: A detailed planting plan shall be drawn at a scale that clearly identifies


                 Location of all plant materials, a legend with botanical and common names, and size of
plant materials;



                 Property lines and street names;



                                                          15
              Existing and proposed buildings, walls, fences, light poles, utilities, paved arcyas, and
other site improvements;


              Existing trees and plant materials-to be removed or retained; and
              Designation of landscape zones.

         c.     Irrigation Plan: A detailed irrigation plan shall be drawn at the same scale as the
planting plan and shall contain the following information:

      Layout of the irrigation system and a legend summarizing the type and size of all
components of the system, including manufacturer name and model numbers;
              Static water pressure in pounds per square inch ( psi) at the point of connection to the
public water supply; and

              Flow rate in gallons per minute and design operating pressure in psi for each valve and
precipitation rate in inches per hour for each valve with sprinklers.

         d.
          Grading Plan: A grading plan shall be drawn at the same scale as the planting plan
and shall contain the following information:

              Property lines and street names, existing and proposed buildings, easements, walls,
fences, utilities, paved areas, and other site improvements; and

              Existing and finished contour lines and spot elevations as necessary for the proposed
site improvements.



consisting of gra' s or similar turf exceed thirty three percent ( 33%) of the overall landscaped
or a. The soils report shall describe the depth, composition, and bulk density of the topsoil and
subsoil at the site and shall include recommendations for soil amendments. The planting plan


        f. Irrigation Schedule: A monthly irrigation schedule shall be prepared that covers the
initial ninety ( 90) day plant establishment period and the typical long term use period. This
schedule shall consist of a table with the following information for each valve:
              Plant type, e. g., turf, trees, low water use plants;

              Irrigation type, e. g., sprinklers, drip, bubblers;

              Flow rate in gallons per minute;

              Precipitation rate in inches per hour ( sprinklers only);

              Run times in minutes per day;

              Number of water days per week; and

              Cycle time to avoid runoff.

    3.        Landscape Design Standards:




                                                           16
         a.     Plant Selection: Plants selected for landscape zones shall consist of plants that arc
well suited to the microclimate and soil conditions at the project site. Plants with similar water
needs shall be grouped together as much as pos. Able in landscape zones.



nonirrigated),       extra drought tolerant plants shall be selected that will blend with the native



or debris shall be avoided.

              Areas with slopes gr        thirty percent ( 30%) shall be landscaped with deep
                                     ater than

rooting water conserving plants for erosion control and soil stabilization. Irrigation devices are
limited to drip emitters, bubblers, or sprinklers with a maximum precipitation rate not to exceed
0. 85 inch per hour.

              Park strips and other landscaped ar as less than eight feet ( 8') wide shall be



         b.    Mulch: After completion of all plantings, all irrigated nonturf areas shall be covered with


soil temperature. Nonporous material shall not be placed under the mulch.

         c.    Soil Preparation: Soil preparation shall be suitable to provide healthy growing
conditions for the plants and to encourage water infiltration and penetration. Soil preparation
shall   include scarifying the soil to a minimum depth of six inches ( 6") and amending the soil with


architect based on the soils report.

    4.        Irrigation Design Standards:

         a.    Standards: Irrigation design standards for this title shall be as outlined in the latest


also be applicable.

         b.    Prec'sure Regulation: If using a dedicated water meter for irrigation, a pressure
regulating valve shall be installed and maintained by the consumer if the static service pressure
                                                     e •        e-   -


located between the landscape water meter and the first point of water use, or first point of



         c.    Automatic Controller: All irrigation systems shall include an electric automatic controller
with multiple program and multiple repeat cycle capabilities and a flexible calendar program. All


         d.    Slopes: On slopes exceeding thirty percent ( 30%), the irrigation system shall consist of


adjusted sprinkler cycle to eliminate runoff.

         e.     Similar Conditions: Each valve shall irrigate a landscape zone with similar site, slope


be irrigated on separate valve( s).

         f.    Drip Emitters And Bubblers: Drip emitters or a bubbler shall be provided for each tree,
where practicable. Bubblers shall not exceed 1. 5 gallons per minute per device. Bubblers for




                                                       17
trees shall be placed on a separate valve unless specifically exempted by the public utilities
department due to the limited number of trees on the project site.


         g.    Matched Precipitation Rates: Sprinklers shall have matched precipitation rates with
 ach control valve circuit.


         h.    Elevation Differences: Check valves shall be required where elevation differences will
cause low h ad drainage. Pressure compensating valves and sprinklers shall be required where
a significant variation in water pressure will occur within the irrigation system due to elevation
differences.




Filters and end flush valves shall be provided as necessary.

         j.    Irrigation Times: Irrigation zones with overhead spray or stream sprinklers, except drip
or bubbler zones, shall be designed to operate between six o' clock ( 6: 00) P. M. and ten o' clock
 10: 00) A. M. to reduce water loss from wind and evaporation.

      k. Program Valves: Program valves for multiple rep at cycles where neces..ary to reduce
runoff, particularly slopes and soils with slow infiltration rates.
    5.        Plan Review, Construction Inspection, And Postconstruction Monitoring:
      a. As part of the site plan approval and building permit process, a copy of the landscape
plan documentation package shall be submitted to the city for review and approval before

water allowance worksheet shall be completed by a landscape designer and submitted to the


         b.    All landscape plan documentation packages submitted must be certified by a licensed
landscape architect or an approved landscape designer. The irrigation plan must be prepared
by an approved irrigation designer or a landscape architect.
         c.All landscape irrigation systems shall be installed by an irrigation contractor. The
person representing the contracting firm shall be a full time employee of the firm and shall be
directly involved with the project including at least weekly site visits during construction.
         d.    All installers, designers, and auditors shall meet state and local license, insurance, and
bonding requirements and be able to show proof of such upon demand.
         e.    During construction, site inspection of the landscaping may be performed by the city.
         f.    Following construction and prior to the rot ase of the bond guarantee posted for the


specifications shall be completed by the property owner, contractor, or landscape
designer/ landscape architect and submitted to the city.

  C.      Residential ( Single Family) Development:


landscaping for single family residential dwellings. This subsection C does not apply to
residential developments with developer installed landscapes nor registered historical sites.




                                                      18
    2.        Provisions For New Or Reconstructed Landscapes: A copy of the landscape education




         a.    Principals of water efficient landscape design;

         b.    List of water conserving plants;
         c.    List of certified landscape designers, certified irrigation system designers and
suppliers, and certified     landsc                e.. _   _   _   _   ; --           e




         d.    Information packet about the various area demonstration gardens. ( Ord. 12 15, 7 11
2812)


                                                 CHAPTER 13. 36
                                                        DEFINITIONS
13. 36. 020: " A" DEFINITIONS:

Active Recreation Areas: Areas of the landscape dedicated to active play where lawn is typically
used as the playing surface ( ex. sports fields and play areas).

13. 36. 090: " H" DEFINITIONS:

HARDSCAPE:             -     e--   , --    e   e- • ;      ee           -        --   e   -. .   , --   - -   , -•:


sidewalks. Durable landscape materials, such as concrete, wood, pavers, stone, or compacted
inorganic mulch.

HYDROZONE: A portion of the landscaped area having plants with similar water needs, areas
with similar microclimate,          i. e., slope, exposure, wind, etc., and soil conditions and areas that will
be similarly irrigated. A hydrozone can be served by one irrigation valve or a set of valves with
the same schedule.




13. 36. 130: " L" DEFINITIONS:

LANDSCAPED ZONE: A portion of the landscaped ar a having plants with similar water needs,

that will be similarly irrigated. A landscape zone can be served by one irrigation valve or a set of
valves with the same schedule.

Lawn: Ground that is covered with grass or turf that is regularly mowed.

13. 36. 170: " P" DEFINITIONS:
Planting Bed: Areas of the landscape that consist of plants, such as trees, ornamental grasses,
shrubs, perennials, and other regionally appropriate plants.

13. 36. 210: " T" DEFINITIONS:

Total Landscaped Area: Improved areas of the property that incorporate all of the completed
features of the landscape. The landscape area does not include footprints of buildings or
structures, sidewalks, driveways, and other non- irrigated areas intentionally left undeveloped.




                                                                            19
