  0)4.
 CIT
  CITY COUNCIL
AGENDA SUMMARY FORM
MEETING DATE: August 7,2024
AGENDA ITEM:        ORDINANCE No.24-06:AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF TAYLORSVILLE
AMENDING
 TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE CHAPTER 2.28:EMPLOYEE APPEAL BOARD
PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED: 0 Yes No
     ORDINANCE REQUIRED: H Yes           No
  RESOLUTION REQUIRED: 0 Yes Q No
  PRESENTER: Jay Ziolkowski
  SUMMARY: The City desires to amend its ordinances relating the employee appeal board to
     remove the appeal board as the appeal authority for employee discipline and replace
     the board with the Administrative Law Judge as the employee discipline appeal
     authority.
 REVIEW BY ATTORNEY'S OFFICE: El Yes 0 No
ATTACHMENTS:
 1
                                       TAYLORSVILLE, UTAH
                                       ORDINANCE NO. 24- 06


AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF TAYLORSVILLE AMENDING TAYLORSVILLE
              MUNICIPAL CODE CHAPTER 2.28: EMPLOYEE APPEAL BOARD


         WHEREAS, the Taylorsville    City Council ( the " Council") met during its regularly
scheduled meeting on August 7, 2024, to consider, among other things, amending TAYLORSVILLE
MUNICIPAL CODE Chapter 2. 28: Employee Appeal Board; and


         WHEREAS, the City is in the process of updating its Employee Policy Manual; and

        WHEREAS,      amendments added to the updated Employee Policy Manual include
removing the employee appeal board as the entity authorized to hear employee disciplinary appeals
and instead authorizes the City' s duly appointed hearing officer to hear employee disciplinary
appeals; and



        WHEREAS, the proposed amendments to TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE Chapter 2. 28:
Employee Appeal Board, as detailed herein below, eliminate the employee appeal board and
instead authorizes the City' s duly appointed hearing officer as the entity authorized to hear
employe disciplinary appeals consistent with the procedures set forth in the updated Employee
Policy Manual; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it would be in
the best interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the City' s citizens to amend TAYLORSVILLE
MUNICIPAL CODE Chapter 2: 28: Employee Appeal Board as proposed.


        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Taylorsville City Council that the
proposed amendments to TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE Chapter 2. 28: Employee Appeal Board
are hereby approved and are designated by interlineating the words to be deleted and underlining
the words to be added, as follows:


                                 TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE
                           Chapter 2. 28: Employee Appeal Beafd Hearing

2. 28.010: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to    . - ..    . . . . .. .      .   .... :         appoint a hearing officer to
                                                                                           •. - UTAH CODE ANN. §§
satisfy the employee appeal requirements of - .,-                .: -   •.-.-: .   :   -

10- 3- 1105 anc1-- 1106.


2. 28. 020:                            APPOINTMENT OF EMPLOYEE APPEAL HEARING
OFFICER:

                                                   The City hereby designates its duly appointed
Administrative Law Judge as the hearing officer authorized to hear employee disciplinary appeals.

of whom       is an employee of the City.        The members of the employee appeal board shall be




                                                        2
council as the chair of the employee appeal board.


2. 28. 030: TERMS AND DUTIES OF BOARD HEARING OFFICER:
                                                                             The hearing officer shall
serve for a term consistent with that for which the hearing officer is appointed as the hearing officer
for the City as a whole. three( 3) years, and, except with the unanimous consent of the city council,
                                                                                         The employee-appeal-heard hearing
officer shall have jurisdiction to hear appeals from employees with appeal rights who have been
discharged terminated,             suspended      for more than two ( 2)                 days without pay, or involuntarily
transferred from one position to another with lesser remuneration compensation.


238.040: ! - !
                                                                                                                m   -



three( 3) members are present. A majority vote at a meeting constitutes the action of the employee
appeal   board.        In the event of a preemptory challenge, as provided below, or the inability or
unwillingness of a member of the employee appeal board to serve, then with respect to a


for that specific appeal or with respect to the inability or unwillingness of a member of the



         I.   1.   ,     I '   •




The employee appealing to the employee appeal board may preemptory challenge one of the


before the hearing starts.

2. 28.0640: ELIGIBILITY TO APPEAL                                                        TERMINATION, SUSPENSION
WITHOUT PAY, OR INVOLUNTARY TRANSFER.


         A.        For purposes of this chapter, an " employee without appeal rights" is defined as an
exempt person employee as identified in _ ..
                                                                    i.   .   .   .   .   -
                                                                                                      UTAH CODE ANN. § 10- 3-
1105( 2), as amended from time to time, and probationary, temporary, or seasonal employees.      An
employee without appeal rights shall have no rights to appeal disciplinary action under this chapter.

         B.        For purposes      of   this   chapter,   an " employee            with    appeal   rights"       means   all   other

employees of the city.

         C. An employee without appeal rights who is discharged terminated, suspended for more
than two( 2) days without pay, or involuntarily transferred from one position to another with lesser
remuneration compensation for any reason may not appeal the discharge termination, suspension
without pay, or        involuntary transfer to the                                           hearing officer.




                                                               3
       D. An employee with appeal rights who is d'huged terminated, suspended for more than
two ( 2) days without pay, or involuntarily transferred from one position to another with lesser
femuneranen compensation for any reason may appeal the discharge termination, suspension
without pay, or involuntary transfer to the                      hearing officer.

2. 28. 070: PROCEDURE FOR CONDUCTING EVIDENTIARY HEARING


       A.   Pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. § 10- 3- 1106( 3)( a)( i), personnel have ten( 10) business

days from the date of their disciplinary notice in which to file a written appeal with the City
Recorder. Personnel who fail to do so within the timeline specified have irrevocably waived the
right to appeal the major discipline.


       B.   The employee appeal shall include a short statement explaining his or her position on
the disciplinary matter and the relief sought.The appeal shall also include any related policies.,
evidence, witness statements, or other relevant materials which the employee intends to introduce
at the AU appeal hearing.

       C.  Once the employee appeal has been filed, the All hearing officer shall have ten ( 10)
business days to schedule a hearing date of said appeal.

       D.    The city administration is responsible for forwarding all relevant documentation.,
exhibits, recordings, etc. to the All hearing officer in relationship to the original complaint,
inquiries or investigations, and findings in connection with the issued discipline and leading up to
the All appeal hearing.

       E.   Within ten ( 10) business days of the scheduled hearing, the AU hearing officer shall
issue in writing, and forward to the Mayor of the City, his or her opinion as to the findings of fact
and conclusions of law in relationship to the cause( s) and action(s) leading up to the issuance of
the major discipline, with a recommendation to either uphold, amend, or overrule the previous
decision of said issuance, based on specific criteria as outlined in Utah Code.


       F.   Apart from Section 2.28. 070( A)above, the timelines herein may be modified if
mutually agreed upon by both the employee and the city administration.




                                                          II.
                                                     I

matters incident thereto, such as holding scheduling conferences, entering orders regarding




            S




                                                 4
                                                                                   D'




being appealed, the employee appeal board may in its discretion suspend the proceedings and



supplemental written decision, the employee appeal board shall then reconvene and hear the




A record of the proceeding shall be kept.

2. 28.080: STANDARD OF REVIEW:
Consistent with the parties' respective burdens of proof and proceeding as set forth in section
2. 28. 070 of this chapter, tThe disciplinary decision being reviewed by the hearing officer can only
be overturned if the disciplinary decision is not supported by substantial evidence           that the

disciplinary decision is disproportionate to the alleged misconduct, or( ii) the disciplinary decision
is inconsistent with sanctions imposed against others similarly situatedien employees with appeal
rights. " Substantial evidence" means quantum or quantity of relevant evidence that is adequate to

convince a reasonable mind to support a conclusion.


2. 28.090: REMEDIES:
Unless the employee- appeal- beard hearing officer finds that there is no substantial evidence to
support the city' s disciplinary decision, the                        hearing officer shall uphold
the disciplinary decision.    If the                          hearing officer does not uphold the
disciplinary decision, then the city shall compensate the employee as required by state law. The
                         hearing officer shall not provide any remedy beyond that required by state
law or as authorized by this chapter.

2. 28. 100: APPEAL OF BOARD DECISION:
                          board' s
Theemployee                     hearing officer' s decision may be appealed by the city or an
                appe.,'




employee with appeal rights as provided by state law.

       This ordinance, assigned Ordinance No. 24- 06, shall take effect as soon as it shall be
published or posted as required by law, deposited, and recorded in the office of the City Recorder,
and accepted as required herein.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this                       day of                            2024.




                                                  5
                                                 TAYLORSVILLE CITY COUNCIL



                                                 By:
                                                        Council Chair



                                                 VOTING:


                                                 Meredith Harker                  Yea     Nay
                                                 Ernest Burgess                   Yea     Nay
                                                 Bob Knudsen                      Yea     Nay
                                                 Curt Cochran                     Yea     Nay
                                                 Anna Barbieri                    Yea     Nay


      PRESENTED          to   Mayor    of   Taylorsville   for her   approval   this            day of
                         2024.




      APPROVED this                   day of                            2024.




                                                 Mayor Kristie S. Overson




ATTEST:




Jamie Brooks, Recorder



      DEPOSITED in the Recorder' s office this                day of                    2024.


      POSTED this             day of                        2024.




                                                    6
