                                     TAYLORSVILLE,             UTAH
                                      ORDINANCE            NO. 25- 09


AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF TAYLORSVILLE AMENDING TAYLORSVILLE
            MUNICIPAL CODE CHAPTER 2. 24: COMMITTEES.


       WHEREAS,        the   Taylorsville   City   Council ( the " Council")
                                                               met during its regularly
scheduled meeting on September 17, 2025, to consider, among other things, amending the
Taylorsville Municipal Code Chapter 2. 24: Committees; and


       WHEREAS, the City desires to update its municipal code regarding committees to allow
for more flexibility and specificity depending on City needs; and

         WHEREAS, the proposed amendments are intended to recognize the need for either joint,
legislative, or executive committees without referencing any specific committee in particular and
that some committees form or dissolve based on their nature or needs within the community; and

       WHEREAS, the proposed amendments also contemplate keeping functioning committees
as executive committees, with their respective council representatives while allowing for the
formation and dissolution    of select committees    on an as- needed basis; and


       WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it would be in
the best interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the City' s citizens to amend the Taylorsville
Municipal Code as proposed.

       NOW,     THEREFORE,     BE IT ORDAINED by the Taylorsville City Council that
Taylorsville Municipal Code Chapter 2. 24: Committees is hereby rescinded in its entirety, and the
proposed, updated Taylorsville Municipal Code Chapter 2.24: Committees, attached hereto as
Exhibit" A" and incorporated herein by this reference, is hereby approved in its entirety.

       This ordinance, assigned Ordinance No. 25- 09, shall take effect as soon as it shall be
published or posted as required by law, deposited, and recorded in the office of the City Recorder,
and accepted as required herein.


       PASSED AND APPROVED this 17th day of September 2025.



                                                   TAYLORSVILLE          CITY COUNCIL




                                                   By:
                                                          Chair Harker




                                                      2
           rG\AY OF Y ,
                               T

                                   m;           VOTING:
                c                  c•       0
    ee •
           cA
                           4            m

                      r96                       Meredith Harker            Yea "        N ay
                          9.   =
        igtt         o...                       Ernest Burgess
                                                                           Yea Zel Nay
               a04    TAO
                                                Bob Knudsen                Yea V Nay
                                                Curt Cochran               Yea     1'   Nay
                                                Anna Barbieri              Yea I Nay


           PRESENTED to Mayor of Taylorsville for her approval this 17th day of September 2025.



           APPROVED this 17th day of September 2025.



                                                Mayor Kristie S. Overson




ATTEST:




Ja ie      rooks,     Recorder




           DEPOSITED in the Recorder' s office this 18th day of September 2025.

           POSTED this 18th day of September 2025.




                                                  3
EXHIBIT   A— Taylorsville   Municipal   Code (   COMMITTEES)




                            4
CHAPTER 2. 24
COMMITTEES

SECTION:

2. 24.005: Purpose And Procedure

2. 24. 010: Formation And Function of Joint Committees

2. 24. 020: Formation And Function of Legislative           Committees

2. 24. 030: Formation And Function of Executive Committees




2. 24. 005: PURPOSE AND PROCEDURE:

   A.    Intent And Purpose: It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to encourage citizen
         involvement and obtain citizen advice and input. Citizens are encouraged to share
         their opinions and expertise by joining any committees organized by the city.
            a.
                 Any committee formed and organized by the city shall have an appointment
                 chairperson. The chair may invite interested individuals to share their
                 experience and advice with the committee, after consulting with the
                 appropriate city official or their designee.
            b.   All committees established pursuant to this chapter have no authority to
                 bind the city or impose any conditions on the city or its citizens and are not
                 vested with the authority to make decisions regarding the public' s business.
   B.    Rules Of Procedure: The committees shall operate in accordance with " Robert' s
         Rules of Order" unless the committee develops rules of procedure that are approved
         by the city administration.

   C.    City Staff Support: The mayor may provide the committee with such administrative
         staff support and materials as deemed necessary to assist in carrying out the duties
         and responsibilities   of each committee.

   D.    Limit Of Membership: Membership, subject to the appointment process set forth
         herein on any committee shall be limited to the city residents or qualified
         individuals who have demonstrated an interest in promoting the welfare of the city.
            a.   An appointment with a committee shall expire if a member misses more than
                 three ( 3) meetings   without    reason.


            b.   If a member' s term expires, that member may reapply at a future date;
                 however, the opening on the committee may or may not still be available.
    E.   Meetings: The committees shall set their own meeting schedule. Committee
         meetings   shall be open   to the   public. ( Ord. 13- 33, 12- 4- 2013)
2. 24.010: FORMATION AND FUNCTION OF JOINT COMMITTEES:
   A.
        The City Council and the mayor may form joint committees by joint resolution ( e. g.,
        Ordinance Review Committee). Said resolution shall state that the committee is a

        joint committee being formed pursuant to this chapter, the name of the committee,
        the duties and responsibilities of the committee, whether the committee is an
        ongoing or special purpose committee, and if it is a special purpose committee, its
        duration.

   B.   A chair and vice chair, as well as members of the committee, shall be appointed and
        removed by the mayor or the chair of the City Council, with the advice and consent
        of the City Council. Other than a special purpose committee, the chair and vice chair
        shall serve a one-year term. If at the end of the one-year term, the committee
        members vote to continue with the same chair and vice chair, those individuals may
        be reappointed by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council.
   C.
        Members of joint committees who are appointed by the mayor may be removed by
        the mayor at any time without cause. Members of joint committees appointed by the
        City Council may be removed by the City Council at any time without cause. In the
        case of removals or vacancies for other causes, such vacancy shall be filled by the
        appointment process previously set forth herein.
   D.   Joint committees shall have appointed thereto a City Council member to serve as an
        advisor. Appointment and removal of such advisor shall be made by the chair of the
        City Council. ( Ord. 13- 33, 12- 4- 2013)

2. 24. 020: FORMATION AND FUNCTION OF LEGISLATIVE COMMITTEES:

  A.
        In addition to the committees created by this chapter, the City Council may establish
        legislative committees by resolution to assist, provide counsel and investigate the
        conduct of any officer, department, or agency of the city or any matter relating to the
        welfare of the city. Appointment to such legislative committees shall be made by the
        chair of the City Council with advice and consent of the City Council. Legislative
        committees shall report to, and coordinate with the City Council or its designee, and
        shall have such power of inquiry as the Council deems necessary.
  B.    A chair and vice chair, as well as members of the committee, shall be appointed and
        removed by chair of the City Council, with the advice and consent of the City Council.
        The chair and vice chair shall serve a one- year term. If at the end of the one- year
        term names can be recommended and submitted to the City Council and appointed
        with the advice and consent of the City Council.
  C.
        Members of legislative committees may be removed at any time by the City Council
        without cause. In the case of removals, or vacancies for other causes, such vacancy
        shall be filled by the appointment process previously set forth herein.
  D.    Legislative committees shall have appointed thereto a City Council member to serve
        as an advisor. Appointment and removal of such advisor shall be made by the chair
        of the   City Council. ( Ord. 13- 33, 12- 4- 2013)
2. 24. 030: FORMATION AND FUNCTION OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES:

  A.    The mayor may establish executive committees by executive order to assist and
        provide counsel. Appointment to such executive committees shall be made by the
        mayor with advice and consent of the City Council. Executive committees shall
        report to, coordinate with, or have a city liaison through the mayor or their designee
        who shall also serve as the advisor to the committee.

  B.    A chair and vice chair shall be appointed and removed by the mayor with the advice
        and consent of the City Council. The chair and vice chair shall serve a one- year term.
        If at the end of the one- year term the committee members vote to continue with the
        same chair and vice chair, those individuals may be reappointed by the mayor, with
        the advice and consent of the City Council.

   C.   Applicants to these committees are required to fill out a volunteer application form.
        Once completed, the application will be given to the mayor for initial review and
        approval for further consideration by the committee chair. If the committee chair
        finds the appointment is in the best interest of the committee and city, the mayor
        may recommend the applicant to the City Council for appointment to the committee.
   D.   Some committees may have membership capacity limits for specified reasons. If an
        applicant' s committee of choice is full, that applicant will be asked to consider
        appointment with a different committee and/ or asked if the applicant would like to
        keep their application on file in case a spot opens on the committee of choice.
   E.   Members of executive committees may be removed by the mayor at any time
        without   cause. (   Ord. 13- 33, 12- 4- 2013)
