                                      TAYLORSVILLE,           UTAH

                                       ORDINANCE NO. 25- 02


    AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF TAYLORSVILLE                              APPROVING A ZONING
   TEXT AMENDMENT               TO THE TAYLORSVILLE            MUNICIPAL         CODE,    CHAPTER

    13. 44, ADOPTING         STANDARDS       FOR THE " SSD- R TAYLOR             VILLAS    ZONING
                                             DISTRICT."


        WHEREAS,          the Taylorsville
                                     City Council ( the " Council") met in regular session on
January 22, 2025, to consider, among other things, approving a zoning text amendment to the
Taylorsville Municipal Code,       Chapter 13. 44, adopting   standards    for the " SSD- R Taylor Villas
Zoning District;"   and


        WHEREAS, pursuant to TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE Section 13. 35. 050, notice of a
public hearing before the City' s Planning Commission was published on the city' s official website
on November     1, 2024; and


       WHEREAS, the notice of a public hearing before the City' s Planning Commission was
also published on the Utah Public Notice Website on November 1, 2024; and

        WHEREAS, the City' s Planning Commission held a properly noticed public hearing on
the proposed amendments on November 12, 2024. The Planning Commission voted 7- 0 to
continue the item to the December 10, 2024 meeting, during which the Planning Commission
voted 4- 1 to forward a positive recommendation to the Council regarding the proposed text
amendment; and


        WHEREAS, although not required by City ordinances, the City Council heard courtesy
public comment on the proposed amendments during its regularly scheduled meeting on January
22, 2025; and


        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Taylorsville to approve the proposed
amendments.




        NOW, THEREFORE,             BE IT ORDAINED by the Taylorsville City Council that the
proposed text amendment to Chapter 13. 44, adopting standards for the SSD-R Taylor Villas
Zoning District, are hereby approved, as articulated in Exhibit" A."

        This ordinance,     assigned Ordinance No. 25- 02, shall take effect as soon as it shall be

published or posted as required by law, deposited, and recorded in the office of the City Recorder,
and accepted as required herein.




                                                   1
                             PASSED AND APPROVED this 22nd day of January 2025.


                                                   TAYLORSVILLE      CITY COUNCIL


                    Oft•FtPYCcS':
                                 cc\•
                                        Q
                                                                              47116-7----
                                                                             d<            7
                                                      Council Chair Harker
                     EA
      0I • 6                                o
            d>:'•                                  VOTING:
       t+
                     yr•   1 g

             t‘®\
                    F OF 01Pa-                     Meredith Harker             Yea
                                                                                     4Nay
                                                   Ernest Burgess              Yea V Nay
                                                   Robert Knudsen              Yea /     Nay
                                                   Curt Cochran                Yea   /   Nay
                                                   Anna Barbieri               Yea       Nay



            PRESENTED to Mayor Overson for her approval this 22nd day of January 2025.



            APPROVED this 22nd day of January 2025.




                                                   Mayor Kristie S. Overson
ATTEST:




Jar    Brooks, Recorder




            DEPOSITED in the Recorder' s office this 23rd day of January 2025.

            POSTED this 23rd day of January 2025




                                                      2
                                         EXHIBIT A


CHAPTER 13. 44
SSD- R- TAYLOR VILLAS ZONING DISTRICT

SECTION:

13. 44. 010: Purpose


13. 44. 020: Applicability

13.44.030: Land Use And Density
13. 44. 040: Architectural Design


13. 44.050: Site Planning

13. 44. 060: Grading And Drainage

13. 44.070: Vehicular Circulation And Parking

13. 44.080: Pedestrian Mobility And Circulation
13. 44. 090: Walls And Fences


13. 44. 100: Exterior Site Lighting
13. 44. 110: Other Development Standards

13. 44. 120: Figures




13. 44. 010: PURPOSE:

The Site Specific Development- Residential- Taylor Villas District ( SSD- R- Taylor Villas) is
established to promote the public health, safety, and welfare of the community by facilitating
the creation of a residential community that is complementary and compatible with its
setting. It is the purpose of this section to encourage quality design and development of land
in a manner that suits the unique needs of the property and contributes to orderly traffic
circulation and compatibility with surrounding buildings and land uses. All new development
within the SSD- R- Taylor Villas Zoning District shall be in conformity with this title.
Specifically, this zone intends to:

 A.
     Enhance and protect the quality of life and community image of the City of Taylorsville
through clearly articulated development design policies and standards;
 B.   Protect and promote Taylorsville' s long-term economic viability through design
standards which encourage and reward high quality development and discourage less
attractive and less enduring alternatives;
 C.   Minimize adverse impacts of vehicular circulation and parking to existing neighborhoods
and to the surrounding physical environment;


                                                  1
 D.    Enhance and protect the security, health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the City
of Taylorsville; and

 E.    Facilitate an understanding of the City' s expectations and notify and assist developers in
compiling       complete   and efficient applications. (   Ord. 25- 02)


13. 44. 020: APPLICABILITY:


The provisions in this chapter shall apply to existing development, new development,
redevelopment, exterior remodels, additions to existing structures, signs, and accessory
structures within the SSD- R- Taylor Villas Zoning District. This chapter includes development
standards and will be used by City staff and, if applicable, the Planning Commission to review
development applications. The policies established in these provisions shall be met through
actual compliance with each design standard.

 A.    Boundary Description: The SSD- R- Taylor Villas Zoning District is limited to a specific
area   in the   City as illustrated   in section   13. 44. 120, figure 1, " SSD- R- Taylor   Villas Zoning
District," of this chapter which is described as:

A TRACT OF LAND BEING SITUATED IN THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 19, TOWNSHIP 2
SOUTH, RANGE 1 WEST, SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN, SAID TRACT OF LAND BEING MORE
PARTICULARLY        DESCRIBED     AS FOLLOWS:

BEGINNING AT A POINT WHICH IS SOUTH 00° 06' 29" EAST 33. 00 FEET FROM THE NORTH QUARTER
CORNER OF SAID SECTION 19, SAID POINT BEING ON THE PROLONGATION OF THE WESTERLY LINE
OF MISTY HILLS NO. 8 PLAT " C" SUBDIVISION,            ON FILE WITH THE OFFICE OF THE SALT LAKE
COUNTY RECORDER IN BOOK 83- 7, AT PAGE 88 OF PLATS, AND RUNNING THENCE SOUTH 00° 06' 29"
EAST ALONG SAID LINE AND A PROLONGATION THEREOF A DISTANCE OF 524. 37 FEET TO THE
NORTHEAST CORNER OF MISTY HILL NO. 9 PLAT " B" SUBDIVISION, ON FILE WITH THE OFFICE OF
THE SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER IN BOOK 84- 3, AT PAGE 47 OF PLATS; THENCE SOUTH
89° 55' 40" WEST ALONG THE NORTHERLY LINE OF SAID SUBDIVISION A DISTANCE OF 443. 95 FEET
TO THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF THE TRACT OF LAND DESCRIBED IN THAT CERTAIN WARRANTY
DEED ON FILE WITH THE OFFICE OF THE SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER AS ENTRY NO. 10411728,
IN BOOK 9599, AT PAGE 8798; THENCE ALONG SAID WARRANTY DEED THE FOLLOWING TWO ( 2)
COURSES, 1) NORTH 00° 09' 13" WEST 512. 08 FEET, 2) NORTH 44° 52' 49" EAST 9. 06 FEET TO THE
SOUTHERLY RIGHT- OF- WAY LINE OF 6200 SOUTH STREET; THENCE ALONG SAID SOUTHERLY LINE
THE FOLLOWING THREE ( 3) COURSES, 1) SOUTH 89° 55' 30" EAST 202. 82 FEET, 2) NORTH 00° 06' 29"
WEST 7. 00 FEET, 3) SOUTH 89° 55' 30" EAST 235. 13 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.

CONTAINS 231, 670 SQUARE FEET OR 5. 318 ACRES, MORE OR LESS.

Also identified as Salt Lake County Tax Parcel Nos.: 21- 19- 200- 052 and 21- 19- 200- 027
13. 44. 030: LAND USE AND DENSITY:

 A.    Density: Overall density within the SSD- R- Taylor Villas classification shall be limited to
no more than ten ( 10) units per acre, subject to compliance with the other provisions of the
SSD- R- Taylor Villas Zoning District.
  B.   Uses: Uses permitted under this chapter shall conform to the development standards
provided elsewhere in this Development Code, the application procedures for development,
                                                           2
and any overlay districts as applicable; provided, however, that in the event of a conflict or
inconsistency between said Development Code provisions, on the one hand, and the
provisions of this SSD- R- Taylor Villas Zoning District, the provisions of this SSD- R- Taylor
Villas Zoning District shall govern. Uses permitted as a conditional use shall comply with the
requirements for administrative conditional use permits and/ or non- administrative
conditional use permits as applicable.

The approval of any additional land uses beyond those allowed shall require and be
contingent upon the favorable exercise of future legislative discretion by the City Council
following all required public notice and hearings before the Planning Commission and City
Council.

  C.
       Table Of Uses: All uses not included in the table below shall be deemed not permitted.
         P=     Permitted
         NC=    Non administrative     conditional     use
         AC = Administrative      conditional use
         N=    Not permitted
         Land Use ( SSD- R Taylor Villas District)

         Accessory apartments                                                         N

         Accessory structure                                                          P

         Animals ( household pets)                                                    P

         Backyard      chickens                                                       P

         Bed and breakfast                                                            N

         Dwelling, Single- Family Attached                                            P

         Dwelling, Single- Family Detached                                            P

         Home occupation                                                              P

         Private park or open     space                                               P

         Residential    facility for elderly persons                                  P

         Residential    facility for persons   with a disability                      P

         Residential lease, short    term                                             N


 Ord. 25- 02)

13. 44. 040: ARCHITECTURAL           DESIGN:

 A.  Purpose And Intent: Architectural design seeks to add to community character while
providing flexibility to avoid rigid uniformity of design. All elements including the scale and
mass of buildings, materials, color, roof styles, door and window openings, and details should
be responsive to functional architectural design and promote a cohesive design statement.
Building masses shall respond to " human scale" with materials and details that are
proportionate to human height and provide visual interest at the street and sidewalk level.


                                                        3
 B.      Single-                              Architectural design, building massing, roof forms,
                   Family Attached ( townhomes):
color, materials, orientation, and fenestration for single- family attached dwellings
 townhomes) shall be consistent with or reasonably similar to the designs and features shown
in Section       13. 44. 120, figure 2A, " SSD- R- Taylor      Villas   Architectural Design," of this chapter. For
the    four ( 4) end units (      outer   units)   identified in Section   13. 44. 120, figure 3C, " SSD- R- Taylor

Villas Site Plan -        Product Location,"       of this chapter, the exterior elements on the sides of those
single- family attached units ( calculated for each building facade) shall be comprised of no
more      than     fifty percent ( 50%) stucco finish, and shall have at least twenty percent (20%)
brick/ stone          coverage   and at least thirty percent ( 30%) Hardie ( or similar product) coverage.
Developer reserves the right to determine, on a lot by lot basis, whether to include a basement
with the dwelling constructed on each lot.
 C. Single- Family Detached: Architectural design, building massing, roof forms, color,
materials, orientation, and fenestration for single- family detached dwellings shall be
consistent with or reasonably similar to the designs and features shown in Section 13. 44. 120,
figure 2C, " SSD- R- Taylor Villas Architectural             Design -    Single Family Detached Homes,"     of this

chapter. No single family detached home shall have the same elevation style as any other
home on the same row (block face) of single family detached homes. Developer reserves the
right to determine, on a lot by lot basis, whether to include a basement with the dwelling
constructed on each lot.

  D.     Maximum         Building Height: Thirty- Five feet( 35'), measured from average finished grade
to the highest point of the roof.
  E.     Mechanical Units: Roof- mounted mechanical units ( including evaporative coolers, HVAC
units,    vents, etc.) shall be located or screened so they are not visible from adjacent public


and/ or private streets as well as from adjacent properties.
  F.     Solar: Buildings may be designed and sited to maximize the use of solar gain for energy
savings, and shall respect the solar access requirements of adjacent ( existing and proposed)
buildings. Solar equipment is permitted subject to the standards set forth in section 13. 11. 200
of this    title. (   Ord. 25- 02)

13. 44.050: SITE PLANNING:

  A. Purpose And Intent: Buildings shall be located to maximize the presentation of
streetscaping, to provide clear orientation and access for both vehicles and pedestrians, to
facilitate internal pedestrian circulation, and to place structures in consideration of the
existing built context, the location of adjoining uses, and the location of roads.
  B. Product Mix: Lots for single- family detached houses shall be located along the southern
and eastern sides of the development next to existing single family homes in the surrounding
neighborhood. Single- family attached dwelling units are allowed in the rest of the
development consistent with section                  13. 44. 120, figure 3, " SSD- R- Taylor Villas Site Plan,"   of

this chapter.


  C. Locations: All building locations, building orientation, roadways, driveways, pedestrian
ways, park spaces, landscape areas, vehicular parking areas, dumpster locations, and sign

                                                               4
locations, shall be consistent             with section 13. 44. 120, figure 3, " SSD- R- Taylor Villas Site Plan,"
of this chapter.

  D.         Stormwater: Stormwater detention/ retention areas shall either be landscaped or be
located beneath improved surfaces ( such as the parking area in the southeastern area of the
Development) .

  E.        Landscape Design:

       1.
                 Purpose And Intent: Landscaping shall be required within the subject site to:
            a.    Enhance the aesthetics of the development;

            b.        Create a pedestrian- friendly environment;
            c.
                  Break up the mass of buildings;

            d.    Soften architectural    materials;

            e.
                  Provide screening for utilities and service areas;
            f. Enhance streetscapes;


            g.    Provide areas of shade; and

            h.    Create attractive entrances to the project.

All landscaping within the SSD- R- Taylor Villas shall be consistent with section 13. 44. 120,
figure 4, " SSD- R- Taylor Villas Landscape Plan," of this chapter.

   2.            Sight Lines: Adequate sight lines shall be consistent with Section 13. 02. 120 of this title.

   3.            Landscape Irrigation/ Water Conservation: Reasonable effort shall be made to conserve
water by utilizing alternative means for maintaining a suitable landscape environment. Low
water use and water conservation concepts may be incorporated into the landscape design of
each development without compromising the intent to establish significant visual amenities
through landscaping.
   4.            Landscape Standards:

        a.
                  Plans: Any landscape plans shall be prepared by a licensed professional;
        b.
                  Installation: The installation of any landscaping shall be done by a licensed landscape
contractor;



        c.
                  Artificial Plants: Artificial plants of any type, size or color are prohibited as exterior
landscaping within any lot;
        d.        Mulching:
                 1)     All planting beds shall be mulched with either wood, decorative rock, or other
ground cover to stabilize soils, control erosion, and conserve water use; and

                 2)     Rock mulch shall be restricted   to   less than   three   inches ( 3")   in size.

                                                                5
           e.    Parking: Parking is prohibited within landscaped areas on a site.
                6.   Landscape Maintenance And Replacement: The developer, or management
association upon completion of the project, shall be responsible for providing, protecting and
maintaining landscaping in a healthy and growing condition. The following requirement shall
be noted on the landscape plan:

        Dead or diseased plant materials shall be removed and replaced within a reasonable
           a.

time or within one month with the same type, size, and quantity of plant material as originally
installed unless incompatible with the soil or weather conditions.

      7.        Site Furniture And Features: Site furnishings, including, but not necessarily limited to,
benches, waste receptacles, exterior lighting, planters, railings and bollards, shall be visually
consistent throughout the SSD- R- Taylor Villas zoning classification including color, materials,
and design style. All components of outdoor site furniture shall be low maintenance, highly
durable and resistant to weather, vandalism, graffiti, and theft.
 E.        Utilities And Mechanical Equipment: The visual and noise impacts of utilities and
mechanical equipment shall be mitigated in the following manner and shall apply to all public
and private rights- of-way and pedestrian areas within the development:
      1.        All new permanent utility lines shall be installed underground;
      2.        Abandoned utility boxes, meters and pedestals shall be removed;
      3.        Damaged utility boxes, meters, and pedestals shall be repaired;
      4.        Utility box and pedestals shall be placed such that they do not block pedestrian travel or
required visibility triangles at street intersections and driveways;
      5.        Utility boxes, pedestals, and meter panels shall be painted to blend in with its
immediate surroundings. All utility boxes and meter panels on walls shall be painted to match
                                                                       and
the    building walls ( subject to utility company       approvals);



      6.        All utility boxes and pedestals shall be screened from view by means of vegetation or
enclosures to minimize visual and auditory impacts. Such enclosures or landscaping
treatments shall be consistent with the design theme of the development.

 F.        Service, Refuse, And Storage Areas: Service, delivery, refuse and storage areas shall not
be visually obtrusive. The visual impact of such areas shall be minimized.
13. 44. 060: GRADING AND DRAINAGE:

 A.         Water Quality Control And Drainage: The project shall comply with title 17 of the
Taylorsville Code of Ordinances, as amended. Stormwater shall be detained for the 100- year
24- hour storm event and detained for the 80th percentile storm. A stormwater detention basin
in the southeast corner of the project will be provided, and an adequate storm drain overflow
and discharge route approved by the City Engineer must be provided.




                                                         6
  B.
            Site Grading And Excavation: Buildings shall be designed to relate to adjacent grade
conditions. Site grading designs shall allow for easy pedestrian access from sidewalks,
pathways,         trails,   and parking areas. ( Ord. 25- 02)


13. 44. 070: VEHICULAR CIRCULATION AND PARKING:

  A.
      Purpose And Intent: The on- site vehicular circulation and parking system is deemed a
critical factor in the safety and success of any development. The parking/ access/ circulation
systems provide for the safe, efficient, convenient, and functional movement of multiple
modes of transportation both on and off the site where pedestrian/ bicycle/ vehicle conflicts
are minimized.

  B.        Vehicular Access: Roadway location and widths shall be consistent with section
13. 44. 120, figure 3, " SSD- R- Taylor Villas Site Plan," of this chapter. Roadways within the site

will be private, not public, and will be maintained by a management company or homeowners
association.


  C.
      Service/ Delivery And Emergency Access: Service circulation within the development
shall be designed to provide safe movements for all anticipated vehicles. The design of
individual lots to accommodate truck access shall meet all regulatory requirements for
turning radii without sacrificing other standards.
       1.
     Access roads and parking aisles shall include the necessary dimensions for the on- site
maneuvering of refuse vehicles and firetrucks as determined by the City Engineer and
applicable       fire authority;    a minimum
                                                    twenty foot ( 20')
                                                    wide, unobstructed driveway, lane, or
other access way and turnaround may be required for this purpose.
  D.
            Vehicle Parking: Vehicle parking shall be provided as illustrated in section 13. 44. 120,
figure 3, " SSD- R- Taylor Villas Site Plan," of this chapter:

       1.
      The overall project will provide parking at a rate of four ( 4) vehicle parking stalls per
residential unit. Two ( 2) car garages shall count as two ( 2) parking stalls; and driveways at
least twenty- two ( 22')         feet long in front of the garages shall count as two ( 2) additional
parking stalls. There shall be at least seven ( 7) guest parking stalls in the southeastern corner
of the project and at least three ( 3) guest parking stalls in the northeastern portion of the
project in the locations depicted              in section   13. 44. 120, figure 3, " SSD- R- Taylor Villas Site Plan,"

of this chapter. There shall also be five ( 5) guest parking stalls ( parallel parking) on the north
side of the center block of the singe family attached townhomes and five ( 5) guest parking
stalls ( parallel parking) on the south side of the center block of the singe family attached
townhomes,          as   depicted in section     13. 44. 120, figure 3, " SSD- R- Taylor Villas Site Plan."


   2.        Minimum parking stall dimensions, exclusive of driveways, shall be 9' x 18'.
   3.
      All parking or roadway areas shall be paved with a solid surface and shall be arranged
and striped to provide orderly and safe loading, unloading, and parking of vehicles.
   4.
             Parking lot and road striping shall be maintained on a regular basis so that striping is
visible      for the safe ingress/    egress    and parking of vehicles. ( Ord. 25- 02)




                                                               7
13. 44.080: PEDESTRIAN MOBILITY AND CIRCULATION:

 A. Purpose And Intent: Pedestrian systems shall be designed to be safe and to encourage
walking throughout the project. Individual lots shall be integrated with adjacent properties
designed to form a comprehensive system and to provide convenient access to public rights-
of-way. Pedestrian spaces and routes shall be designed to invite walking throughout the
development. Routes shall be integrated to form a comprehensive circulation system,
providing convenient, safe and visually attractive access to all destinations on the site
consistent with       section   13. 44. 120, figure 3, " SSD- R- Taylor   Villas Site Plan,"   of this chapter.
 Ord. 25- 02)

13. 44.090: WALLS AND FENCES:

 A.        Purpose And Intent: All fences and walls shall be decorative and contribute to the visual
quality of the development. When not required for security, screening, or grade transitions,
fences and walls shall be as inconspicuous and low as possible.

 B.        Perimeter Fence Design And Materials: a perimeter fence shall be installed along the
southern and eastern boundaries of the development where the development is adjacent to
the backyards of neighboring properties. The perimeter fence shall be six ( 6) feet high and
reasonably similar in design and materials to the fencing products depicted in section
13. 44. 120, figure 2B, " SSD- R- Taylor Villas Architectural        Design -    Perimeter Fence," of this

Chapter. For the single- family attached homes, three ( 3) rail fencing shall be installed along
the front lots consistent with the 3- rail fencing shown in section 13. 44.120, figure 2B, "SSD- R-
Taylor Villas Architectural        Design -   Front Yard Fencing," of this Chapter. ( Ord. 25- 02)


 C.        Screening Requirements: The development shall include screening of service areas,
refuse, and waste removal areas, where applicable.

      Uses being screened shall not be visible above the screen wall enclosure as viewed from
      1.

the public rights)- of-way and shall be constructed of materials similar to the primary
structures; and

    2. Gates and/ or access doors shall have self-latching mechanisms and shall be opaque

metal or another low maintenance material which is durable. Chain link gates with or without
slats are not permitted. (Ord. 25- 02)



13. 44. 100: EXTERIOR SITE LIGHTING:

 A. Purpose And Intent: Exterior lighting shall be used to provide illumination for the
security and safety of entry drives, parking, pathways, and park space, without intruding on
adjacent properties. Site lighting shall be architecturally compatible and consistent in design
throughout the SSD- R- Taylor Villas Zoning District.

  B.       Fixture Design: Exterior lighting placement and design shall comply with an exterior
lighting plan to be reviewed and approved as part of the platting process for this project.
Exterior light fixtures shall be compatible and relate to the architectural character of the
buildings on site. Site lighting shall be provided at the minimum level to accommodate safe
pedestrian and vehicle movements, without causing excessive off-site glare.

                                                          8
       1.
              The maximum height of lighting poles within landscaped and park areas is twenty feet
 20'),
              measured from finished grade. Poles within these areas may be set on bases no more
than eight inches ( 8")       in height.

  C.
            Decorative Architectural Lighting: Special lighting that accents building features and
creates visual interest is permitted, provided that design continuity is maintained among
buildings.

       1.
              Neon tubing is not acceptable as a building accent or to accentuate the building' s form.
       2.
      Lighting fixtures mounted directly on structures may be allowed when utilized to
enhance specific architectural elements or to help establish scale or provide visual interest.
       3. "    Wall pack lights" are not permitted.
       4.
       Using lighting to highlight entrances, art, terraces, and special landscape features is
highly recommended.
  D.
            Pedestrian Area Lighting: Walkway lighting shall be scaled to the pedestrian to provide
for safe use of pathways and pedestrian areas. Any walks, stairs, or ramps shall be lighted for
the safe passage of pedestrians. The use of lighted bollards or other low level fixtures is
strongly encouraged to identify pedestrian walkways.
  E.
    Landscape Lighting: Landscape lighting which enhances and complements the landscape
materials is permitted. Where landscape lighting is used, fixtures shall be concealed where
possible ( i. e., in trees, behind    rocks   or    shrubs) to   control glare. ( Ord. 25- 02)

13. 44. 110: OTHER DEVELOPMENT                  STANDARDS:

 A. The minimum side-yard setback for single family detached homes shall be five feet( 5'),
resulting in a minimum         of ten feet ( 10') between such homes. Window wells for basements

are not considered part of the homes for purposes of calculating side- yard setbacks. The
minimum front setback for single family detached homes shall be as follows: 10 feet to the
front porch; 15 feet to the living area; and 18 feet to the garage. The minimum rear setback for
single family detached lots shall be fifteen feet ( 15').

 B. All Driveways shall be a minimum                of twenty- two feet ( 22')   in length to provide adequate
space for parking vehicles.

 C. The private roads and amenities within the development shall be maintained in good
condition and repair by a management company or homeowners association.
 D. All       sidewalks   and pathways     within   the   development    shall be at least five feet( 5')   wide.



 E. New landscaped park strips ( 5 feet wide) and new sidewalks ( 6 feet wide) shall be
installed for those portions of 6200 South; Fairwind Drive; and 3975 West that border the
development. The landscape plan and associated park strip plantings prepared by PKJ Design
Group and approved by the City ( on file with the City' s planning department) shall be
followed.




                                                            9
 F. All single- family attached units that border 6200 South and Fairwind Drive shall be rear-
loaded with the front facades facing said public roads.

 G. The development governed by this SSD- R- Taylor Villas Zoning District shall also be
subject to a Development Agreement for Taylor Villas, which shall be approved by the City
and recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorder' s Office against the subject real property.
The Development Agreement shall include, without limitation, those owner occupancy
requirements, rental restrictions, and other provisions approved by the City.

 H. Open space amenities with a playground and two ( 2) covered pavilion seating areas shall
be provided in the   area           8, which shall be maintained by a management company
                            south of Lot#
or homeowners association, consistent with the images shown in section 13. 44. 120, figure 5,
SSD- R- Taylor Villas Playground Amenities,"   of this   chapter. (   Ord. 25- 02)


Unless otherwise specified within the SSD- R- Taylor Villas District, all current development
standards shall   apply. ( Ord. 25- 02)




                                                  10
    13. 44. 120: FIGURES:

     FIGURE 1


     SSD- R- TAYLOR VILLAS ZONING DISTRICT

                                                                                                       1               I&
                                s' z,-'   aE•
                                                                     r
                                                                               s.   a«*:.       w'''
                                                                                                           r, .,
                                                                                                                            s_..

                                                                                                                                                       ems.
                                                                 y                                     N




r



               n.

                        t




                                                                                                                                                       7
                                                                                                                                           w
                        I440



                                                                                                             Iv                    .

3
          v.
                                                                                                                   2                   4
                                                                                                                                       F
                                                                                                                                               „,
                                                                                                                                               4i .


                                                             i                                                                                    w'
                                                x       P.               4


                    p




                                                                         irm
                                                                                                           7CI ' . .,                                  2/




                                                                                            r

      H
                            x
                                                    m




     Site Aerial                                                                                                            North()


The aerial image above depicts the subject parcels, presently identified as Salt Lake County
Tax Parcel Nos.: 21- 19- 200- 052 and 21- 19- 200 027.




                                                                         11
FIGURE    2A


 SSD—R—TAYLOR VILLAS ARCHITECTURAL                                                    DESIGN

         REAR—LOADED TOWNHOMES:




                                                                                                                                a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              s`




                                                                                                                                                   eill74:
                                                                                                                                                         i                         '. ,-
                               fi                  a       --;.:-.
                                                                1‘..         L--.-.
                                                                                                                   iTr..,
                                                                                                                     . -,:                       kii,:,--
                                                                                                                                                                                                   N,           .,.
                                                                                                                                                           43-:',--
                                                                                                                                                                 7,- ",",,,,,-:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                          4--:-:§
                                                                                                                                                                                                              1*- 1.4i-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t




                                                                             w:




                                                                                                                                                                        x,




                                                                                                                                      r                                                  k'              to

                                                                                                                                ram                                                                4,-
                                                                                                                                                                                                          z@'



                                                                                                                           1,.'-',7,,,,,, : . ...:,.....„...:--
                                                   4'..:
                                                      Q:,.:,'           :;:,:;',.     L.-



                                                                                            2.:   S.; .,...‘
               4:11;**   ti-
                           L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A
                                    T'l
                                          1
                                                                                                                                                                                    4-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                fihi


                                              II               II-                                                                                                                 i..,,:,
                                                                                                                                                                                    r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S




                         aq
                               a
                                                       1::-'                 i
                                                                             t,.:jj-:':               2; -     ;
                                                                                                                   I" ',
                                                                                                                            r
                                                                                                                                               11' '''''
                                                                                                                                                 '''':
                                                                                                                                                                                              g;    /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P!,,,
                                                                     tea..




                                                                                                                    ki '
                                                                                                                                          i'




                                                                                                                   w.




                                                                                                    12
                                                                                                                              Caroline Townhome
                                                                                                                                                                        Front Elevation -                                                                              4 Plex



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BF




                                                                                                                                                                       I r                                                                             Putait.    0    CAMS%
                                                                                                                                                                           7               --,                    ,--                                                                                                                                                                                    N%                                                                   W.
                 4, z,                                  CP*        1;                                       5141.    1195.    0       .
                                                                                                                                                               1                                                                                          004/    101. 45   504.      5                                              Ur ' !-''..

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               r   1bl

                                                                                                                f3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5141./.        00   44I0                          t •      STUCCO


                                                                                                                t                                                                                                                                                eel START            OW

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             315015.                50/ 06 \ ,                              35- 1 ....

                 syuccosysme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           i>,..,\,.-',                                                                                                                                                                       _        -
                                                1                         1          1 « ,. . -, _-                                                                                      31444*.              305G5/ 1     1---                                                                                    O =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I.-        ..-


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MI —            4     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7..


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1,
                                                                                                 L                    '.--


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ill /
                                                I                                                                                                 1 t it:2-                                                                                                                                                                       t...
                                                                          I
                                                                                                           ET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1                                                                                                 1
1
                                                                                                                                              I




                                                                                                           in                     '                                                                                        1L- 7-_,
                                                1                                                                                                                          i                       ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1_         I

                                                                                                                                                   t               -                               tt                      I.

                                                1.. ,                            i                         I f- 1                                                                                                                                                                                  1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        i a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.--                                         bia.,                                                                                                                                                    E                    —

                                                                                                                                                                                                        il
       i-,
                                                I                                                             1...... 1       ,_,
                                                                                i                          1_ _____,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        is         a                                                                                                                                                         IN ,„ i .,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  gip..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 si
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             II'... ri,    ett
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         br:;!.............
             T1rjEJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       U -
                                                                                                                                                   i.....:.--__ ..-_-_..                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             illi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Adhliiii __.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                     4                           4                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I


                                                                                                                                                                                 t‘-....           4.......      t:               ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         t4,, t‘..........:-.                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I'
                                                                                                                                                                                 t             ;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1--




                   Total..- 2 008




                                                                                                                              Chantelle Townhome
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Front Elevation



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   irrilb

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              li                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4 .-. -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1=-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     41tIra                                                1;   1,   1.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          414'.."''''''''.               3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              414—                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ii
                                                                                                      L__            _                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1' 711
    Maill 1 '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           11111111, - fr211.111;„
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7:±




                                                                I —
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7-;;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                al                                1




                                                ffiiiiiii
                                                                                                      p...--„,
                                                                                                      r-
                                                                                                           07, ,     - , +
                                                                                                                              = ,
                                                                                                                                  ,       '
                                                                                                                                                   linnLi "1 ,,,„,
                                                                                                                                                          1,
                                                                                                                                                                   t — ---,
                                                                                                                                                                     1


                                                                                                                                                                        i ::, „
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Li 524.

                                                                                                                                                                                                              ni , , . ...,„ . _ ,,... .._ .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4:-...:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1::- w


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              m11..----.-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7,......-                                              tgltr-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                F-          1:- E- --




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             imisil-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  pz-',,...,-;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E--...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7,           ,                 :--
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              12ll        air ----

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   i



                                           J"                 111111111

                                                                                                                                                  a,„ -----,,--                                                                                                                                        ..,,,,..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
         ig--.. iii.                                                          1!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           la..:,
    p Ai       1 --1 0„,„:.-.
                        1                                                     1 ,,                          El                                                                                                                                                                                                            i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1-                       si_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3_,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0,_,                                    .                                          F             ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          s                        =,

    olilliliiill11411
                              ..:...:„.:_-.
                               g===. 1.1 1              IIIHIll ,                                     1.
                                                                                                                                                   7!--
                                                                                                                                          7,1.4-t,z,-
                                                                                                                             flik.arertitc-
                                                                                                                                                                                              7_:-....-,,,-.:„.,. ..,, ,.. „_-_.: ‘,,,,,.-.
                                                                                                                                                                                                              7-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       11,   5?"--
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7--------'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1---
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4"          3-°::::::

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Lr-m.4-c-_-_-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      tr-*.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 45.5=.    47-_-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           - 774; 1. t-i,. 41....„
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  41-15......._.......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Iiiii,...!_....                  .             "--'

                               MB,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4--: . -,...,-




                                                                                                      Immoll          4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            um.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  it                                             in444755....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I #                          4


                                                                                                                                                                             1                                       I




             8=d=Stone Sq= are Footage= 840
              Hub°, 5..., 14, Fog..,.I 405
                               F. 8=88= 0
                         Tefal=   1, 945
                     Stucco%=        0%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               13
                                                                                                                                                         Caroline Townhome
                                                                                                                                                                                    Front Elevation- 5 Plex


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4                                                                   5                                              6
f1                                                                                     2)                                                                                               3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             i                               t-`
                                                                                                                                        f                                                                                                                                                                                                        v.                     W
                                                                                                          row WAG               /                                                                         crwar                                                 w, rw                 vrx+ z*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MOW

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  a                                                                  vim.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   sty
                                                                                                                                        n                                                                                f                                                                                          tea,
                     slwmsmd-
                          I. j                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1 : I—Hj: - '
                                                                                                                                                                                                              EL : B____
                                                                                                                                                 mw




                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       f
                                                                      K

                                                                                                              u



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       jg               ia
                                                                                                          E}fit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1=+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                t„


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       icr :.
                                                                                                                                                                 a,       /   ,
                                                                                                1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Willlll

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1tll :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            t
                                                                                                                                                     19w                                                      1.         pS .                                               3   IOW .'                                                   Wx+ M
                                                                                                                                                                 3




                                           110„   msq„ aw,,. 2..,
                                              Node.., e FarY.,,,  18J..«:U-. S

                                                            Taal      a 2. 483




                                                                                                                                                             Chantelle Townhome
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Front             Elevation
                                                                                          2)                                                                                            3                                                                 4}                                                                     5                                          6)
t1 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I    ar rau.,;oiy


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   to

                                                                                                                                                                                         1. 4
                                                                                                                                                                                         t




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      al
                                                                                           It
                                                                                                                                                                                                          r




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     z




                                                                                                                                    likai
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       i                ii i


                 iI1I____
                      iIi IflhIiuJ                                                                                                                       M                one           ,:-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I       viz"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 i--        _-


                                                                                                                                            1.   11r,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                l
                                                             f.w..               aa

                                                                                                                                    t:,'-
                                                                                                                                      l''-  11rrl0
                                                                                           11r:i
      W.
       m-
                                                                                                                                          i,. a-                                                                                l,.,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          F;..;,.;-
          jlMIIa.                      i-


                                                                                                                                    Di- lIaMTg„tB. Mi, al1
                                                  a"                                  i'
                                                                                                     I'
                     id,                                                                                                                                                                                                 I.-I,,,
                                                                                                                  l'.                                                                                                        I,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I.,.-.-



                                                                                                                   1Mi t1 '.
       1'                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I .-,-,
                                   sb1—O ktr.• L1l 0
                                                                                                1,
                          I iI1I                       1I                                       N                                   R   I,,"
                                                                                                                                         N E—              Er.
       l--'
        iiiii
        rift
                11   1.

                91tlllii
                                   4       i
                                           h„ ,              3.., .              21
                                                                                                g                       111
                                                                                                                        flt '                                                     s ,
                                                                                                                                                                                        31   _'" `_   .                                        or..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1'       3r a: '                                          11.111'•                                           a_




                                   a'   rlir                                                        IIIIIIY   rr1..„_
                                                                                                              Y
                                                                                                                                        u




      11111111
          1-                               1- 1'1
                                          A....,"';.'-..'
                                         h-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E11                     -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           vt_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3'
                                                                                                                                                 1                                                                 1
  1                                                                                                                                                                   i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1Y                                              IS,
                                                                                                                                                 1                                                                                                                                                                               I-.._

                                                  stiAvw w1.           1, 10110 11= 513 2515
                                                  Nagleam                  '%17%
                                                           swim, romp a. tna•
                                                   Ilmomv.   Swum kw .#- ea
                                                               TOM.        231.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                14
Upgraded Exterior Elements of End Units ( Outer Units)



                                                                                                                               w
                       s
            Syr
                                                                                                                           k




                                                                 vm
                                                                                            4v




                                                                      f

                              a




                                                         w   a




                                                                                        R                        H^ n...
                                                                                                            v$
                                                                                                 ems°•"+'                      4



                                                 Y   $


                                  s'„   ui" e                         fro ., -.-   v`




                                                15
FIGURE 2B

     SSD- R- TAYLOR VILLAS ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN

                 PERIMETER FENCE




                                                                                                                    P @    a                  t7, f°' 8

 A       a
                                           4,
                                                                                s

                                                                                          1-       y -,,,        may.,.,       i...                                   4   -'




                                                                       t   :,   .,                 1,
                                                                                                                                                                               k_-:-..'
     7-cr,'-*- -'                               i..--   ---   '                     i-,    1 .-,            l' ",- '           L.--,          :.&..::.
                                                                                                                                                        Ls ---




                                                                                                                 ix,
The Rhinorock fence comes in a natural concrete gray, but can be stained on site to compliment
your home or commercial project. The stain is a penetrating stain that is designed for concrete
and does          not require any maintenance.                     The color stain will also aid in the removal of graffiti.
Visit RhinoRock. com and see available                            colors on the concrete                colors page.




                                                                                                                                          3


                                                                                                                                                Et2„




                                                                                                                                      f            fit;..   ...                0
     a       -    Z.,;..
         ems,                  r ',                                                                                                               r*              "   „




                                      4-




                               Itii-,
                           s   j..




The image above shows the " Basket Weave" product from Olympus Precast fencing

                                                                                          16
                                                                                                       Maria. -".&

                                                                                                                           itttV:iIafllttfityi'
                                                                                                                                  t'
                                                                                                                                             d

                                                                                                                                                 4!•;',Aitll-
                                                                                                                                                         tzz',•:
                                                                                                                                                          ij5:--'--•: •'"


                                    h                                                                                                    a3
              4w.. i1:   a
                                                         a
                                                                       teak-.,                   g"
                                                                                                                                                          t
                                                                                ti^    v+

                                                                                            aP   Y.
                                                                                                  4.




                             a      a,
                                          fta
                                                                                 F'.,' t,»,  e


                                                                                                                     gN              S

                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                         9




                                 i.i. j•-•"   E'.- .: •.'-.: . :.•,.




                                                                       el• :-.' .:•'. •.',-.'-.:-' ' . "' . . ,.' ,.„,:.                                                         f.




                                                                                                                                                                            xn




The image above shows the " Standard Shiplap" product from Olympus Precast fencing




                                                                                                                                         17
SSD- R- TAYLOR VILLAS ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN

                   FRONT- YARD FENCING




                                            F




                                                                                                                                                               iiii; 1
                                                                                                                                                                                          t'^      P
                                                                                                                                                                                                tii
                                                                                                                                      I                                                           i




                                                x   ..
       w                     1                                    r.    wrl              1                                                                              a   r

                                                                                                                                                                                    4 i



                                                                                                                                                                     air.       -

                                                                   t-




                                                                                                                  xww




           1111111111111111111111




                                                                                                           J-                                            K.! c,..,



                                                                                                                                                                4                   Al
4,,,




it.--:'
           ill                        k,A
                                                     wa ...
                                                                                 .   4
                                                                                     i       :        i aid 1 :         1
                                                                                                                                                     t, ,1 .



                                                                                                                                                            l.1                     ip -i
                                 a'
                                                              a
                                                                                                 1c   .,        err. '.     M.   1M       s



                                                                                                                                              awswasat




                                                                              ate.




                                                                                                       18
FIGURE 2C


 SSD- R- TAYLOR VILLAS ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN

     SINGLE FAMILY DETACHED HOMES




SingIeFarn •                                            Lots__.
                                                                             1111,
                                       4




                                    7,;-,                       misdigator

                                    v1

                                                                       r"

                                                                711




         Mil   a

                   r
                                           sidis
                                                   r   a rat,



                                                                                         4
                                                                                     t




                                       19
k.




     FIGURE 3A

      SSD- R- TAYLOR VILLAS SITE PLAN




                                                                                                                                                                                     30a
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Q          o   ,           SO




                                                                                                                                                                                                      Scab I- soft



                                                                                                                                                 6200        SOUTH


                                                                                                                                                                                           T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tr


                                                                                                                                                                                      eic- 1-
                                                                                                                                                                                                           fr'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      El)
                                        t




                                                                            UII i_.:                                                                                                                  Ltr
                                                         1



                                                                                                                                                                        cL
                                                                                                                            4_                                                                  121I-
                      IIT-   f
                                            b'



                                 It,                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1




                                                                        I I                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                t

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1'                                   1,
                                   II            I




                        o
                                                                                 II
                                                                                                   r




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      r--     Ai..:     a]   zz. 9z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               s

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   F




                        I                                                                                                                                       1...

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      b.-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Lot a ] fi

                                                                                                                                              I.• I

                                             L                     wif—                                                               1


                                                                                                                                                                                          i1,          L




                                                                                                                                              MI•.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                95                     1




                                                                            A1 ii1I1V_
                                                     1
                                                         t
                                             8
                                                             r
                                                                                                                i
                                                         i                                                Ard




                                                                                                                                              l,
                                                     1

                                                             in


                                                             1.
                                                                                  i


                                                                                       E.                                                     I,V                                                                             Os                       1




     NHAM   WAY
                  i                                  1




                                  VIbedd
                                  nF/

                                        I'.              MLott
                                                             oo:    5196.   a]        or"
                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                6653.]]             Area•
                                                                                                                            L•    3
                                                                                                                                 a856.    9       R   nt.,
                                                                                                                                                                       k1w
                                                                                                                                                                             4666.   61         Ana   667595




                                                                                                                                                      20
                  FIGURE 3A

                    SSD- R- TAYLUR V1LLAS St                                                                                                     LAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            t                                                                                      IN                        '°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Bede*-   808
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WILD                                                            N G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ENGINEERING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6200 SOUTH                                                                                                                                                                                          WWW.         xN.      13. I14011N1111111N111.                011N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         INTERSECTIONS         wTN


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         pa.;LDGARDEEb
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AT N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ro
                                                                                                           TMlt                                                           T   ...       7'   711""
                                                                                                                                                                                                     a"—

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L:.., ;:..... r—                r"" ---          r-'"           r '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           a:-...   c+.     ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IS.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ice
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           15'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REAR


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TO     PORCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TO FRONT          USING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         s""r"roTMELL FOLLOW.,. .:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AREA




                  8200      8 AND FAHWlD                      FflONfAGE                    I.FROYH. B7fff
                                                                                                                                                                                             1. —.         y,       J•-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1' ',—-,^   ',--

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4y_  r—
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  T'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I                                                                     ALONG rwxw c wax uo MO scum.                                       x INSTALLED

                                                                                                                                                    j     I                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I       \ '   1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                    C
                                                                                                                                                          1                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ic'\

                                      r.
                                                        A     RG     Y-   48        UBR      MAX   R.)         ASPHALT
                                                                                                                                                    1[
                    sR                 4 ABR                                                        B


                                                                                                   sm                                                                                                                                                                                                                               wale

                                               z,•          CUTER
                                                                                                                               II   I `
I.   BENNO    WRB
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Rwss
                                                                                                                                                                                                                D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RwwNIB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RNIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N
                                   44' RNA1                         81f?            f
                                                                                                                                            W




                                      r                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I                                           1
                                                NUARc               se-   v         psx      MAXR.)            ASPHALT
                                      B-        uTBc


                                           ss•          mwur                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C



                           Er.                                                                                                  1           EC


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     il
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    r.




                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       e
                                                               EXTEND          G.       BEYOND     EDGES
                                                                                                                                            LL
     EXTEND   f   BEHIND     WRB
                                                                    srnffr



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       F.

                                      e- uRc
                                                                    se-   m(        Isx...         R.    R>.    ErNur



                                                                                                                                                                      t                                                                                                                                             1               r


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                i
                                      B:


                                          a ww-
                                           R                                               I—                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          b           1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       i

     ExTEND       BENwD     WRB
                                               2. 1."       GUTTER

                                                                                                                               1iw                                I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                     PFtlVp                                                                                         11
                                                                   BREEf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       k

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1                                                                                                            g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ROB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BMA.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NMI.                                                                         BD.   wx
                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                    CHELTONHAM                                           WAY                 9
                                                                                                                                                 R rs I   I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      D6wYONI                 nR




                                                                                                                                                                                    7RR                                                                                                                         s   RAM


                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TAYLOR                            VILLAS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0. BIRa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          r                      1   r            r                  r                                                                  A>       H



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MASTER                  SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                II                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TAYLORSVILLE,                             UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ANION                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DRAWN                                                         Ba




                                                                                                                                        j                 IL
                                                                                                                                                           J i1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TGK                     GcG DW.                             24253_.__
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I                                                          a<




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1/ 15/ 25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NEE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1°=              30'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I                                                                                                                                                                                                               MT


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DINENs.                w.
FIGURE 3C

 SSD- R- TAYLOR VILLAS                               SITE PLAN -                         PRODUCT                LOCATION




                                                             1
                                                                                                                  6200 SOUTH
       N




       r='`   =
                         SINGLE   FAMILY                                                        r   r                       1   t                r




                  1=     CAROLINETOWNHOME
                  J
                                                                        uii• 11m                        III!
                         CHANTELtE    TOWNHOME
                                                       I!
                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                   Q




                                                                                            4                                         iioi
   IMPROVED       SIDE   ELEVATION   TOWNHOME    K                                                                                                                     9



                                                 Z                 E
                                                                                 M, a`                               i
                                                                                                                                                                           Ff




                                                                   r                                                 I


                                                            Yam,
                                                                                                                                             r                     `
                                                                                                                         1.

                                                                                                                                                     Av—




                         CHELTONHAM WAY




                                                                 X ,:    61.,,                          sue.,             N1br ...,
                                                                                                                           j
                                                                                                                                                           1




                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                               I




                                                                                                    21
FIGURE    4


 SSD- R- TAYLOR VILLAS LANDSCAPE PLAN


                                                                                                  6200$ QUTH
                         5w                        i1C   ;                            ma'   s „      v
                                                                                                                       t'                                fi                    r . .             s              4
                                                                        x   •                                                          f




                                                                        m                                 s    ®                       e



                                         6     •                        a       a                                  a   ®                                                   O           a         o




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t
              re
          Wit:     ..,        a..                                                                                             GO:          t..
                                                                                                                                            3J
                                                             o              i        MNeu                                                                          c     e000b




                                                             G7Nje                   N•..                                                  Po
                                                                                                                                                                         ooeso             ` /




                                                                                                                                  a•
                                                                                                                                                                   GA®®


 Q

                                                                                                                              g d̀JES
                 fix,

                                                                                                                            f_7
          s

                                                                                                                                                                         a®®®!                              n       _,„
                                                              c                      err-...                                                                       r--                                 i7                            ar




                                                                                                                            ci    fxr                                                                                                            4




                                                     a                                            t ;.'••. "                                                4-.'
                                                                                                                                                        t"...-
                   rv                                             p
                                                                                                                                                                       v
                                    r,   s '       sew+., .       f='
                                                                                                                                                 ta;•              A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          s



                                                                                                                                                                                                            71
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.- 4"1,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Hite72; 1:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              l:4:
                                                                                                                                                                                                 6   ' '    ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1:14 :,:_,:

     44



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          c`

     S                                                                                                                                                                                                      b             o® os°®
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          si .



                                                                                    The Plant Legend is shown below)




                                                                                                                        22
           SITE          MATERIALS                        LEGEND -                 r
 SYMBOL              COf) F                                                                                                                            SYMBOI              L.QpE               Qly     BOTANICALICOMMON                                                                 NAME CONT
                                PFSCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                      DECIDUOUSTREES
 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Aril pi. nUM de' Crimsonsmd




     LANDSCAPE8
                                                                                                                                                                           A'CS                          Crimson Solt) NON: I' hkpk                                                                     B& B          2 Cd!
                                 SODDED        LIJt       A: E;.                                                                          2- s`
                                                                                                                                                                                                          100( k.. n;               3rr run x                      1         idc. der 74
                                 L,hrN AREAS SJHI. J. UESOD. NEW IeRFAREA; TO UR SODDED\ Hill
                                 DROUGHT JDLEIL`ST KENJIJCKI' BLUE GRASS Oil APPROI' EDEQUAL SEE
                                 SOi! LINDSCI! PE NC'. 5= 0RFURTHER l>" FORM,                     I' nON.- SHEET J2> 101.                                                                                Aea: oe;. mdo'                          Seri" so• o
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sent         on        Malice                         M2fXe                                     BRA           I' C. r
                 rn. [   !"        jUNU III CRUSHEDROCK                                                                                   24, 8; Lr                                                      ir-      oas: muu: 14

                                 SLJBJITS IIIIE-SEOR LVIIISOPE. IR!. HJTE(; r AND OWNER APPRO.', J
                                 PROI DE}       DEPTII OFROCK MULCH TOP               DRESSIK(  1. SE£ INORGANIC                                                                                        Celli occide uT                                  I,        SUP'
                                    ICJ[    IJ!! DSCAPE        NO" JI: S FOR ADDJ' JION. J. INFORFA' JION. SBECT LP 101.

                                                                                                                                                      O                    CPS        .        17
                                                                                                                                                                                                        PrPrairiec nni 9 bckbury                                                                        B& B     !'    Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Lo-    a,   i. 1     or.    5                 tlztr. n repart Irk; 24;
                         QUI     I') TNUS     GREYCRCSJJEDROCJ:.                                                                          I7S, f                                                         s! ifIbrw                  I mio, l? 1m
                                 S UB, irl' SA- I11' I  FOR L  DSC'. LI'[         ARCIIt1 ECJi..".'   D Ohi' NER   IL' PRObAf.
                                 t RO. IDE}        DEPTH  OrROCK MUU:             I I TOP   DRESSIKC.     ILE INORG.      INIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Calf
                                                                                                                                                                                                         dli         Nat- Mans                    Prairie Fr                  z
                                    CI C!    Lk ncC   1   PE   NO' JtSFOR     ADDI` 110N\   L INrDR     itA' 110N. 51IE. 1T LP- JCL                                     COT                                                                                                                             B& B          2" ul
                                                                                                                                                                                                                iri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  pn ' dclbckla rr}-

                                      BRO       CRUSHED             ROCK                                                                  3. 47kst
t ,„`,. `' '!•                   SUB,! lrSA n FOR L,'c1DSCAP ARC! IITEC" J' A. DOILNER APPROVAL.
                                 PRO!'! DE•• DEf('H OF ROCK MULCH TOPDRE                         U.: G. SEE INORGANIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Cdn;'\               bgruba'
                                    C'LCH IA'! I) SCAPENOlts               FOR ADDITION.! I. INrDRAIATION.              fl1± Tfl'- JOL                                  CX' M                                                                                                                           B& B
                                                                                                                                                                                                        II1, C,'               P, ui, bmv                                                                             2" C' al



2HARnSCAPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                        M71uc' I' r.airicRe ti
                                    DEEPSTEELFJJG!'                O- INSTPd. LPER     LVIJEACIURERSI'[       C' IHC.. T! O..             765''                         M' PR                           Prairie RoaeC                     haunt                                                        11& B !'        Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Lmi. ISsun; z- I;. Utih I akr" It,                                              role- ram



                                                                                                                                                                                                        Qoer( USto'' iixalb, JFS- K' IQX TI


                                                                                                                                                      0                 QR', t                          SlrtttSjffloChi
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Td4; 45. x14;:



                                                                                                                                                                                                        Plaint       sFrontier
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V 176: su l 1;,                4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       B& B           t'C' al




           SHEET INDEX
                                                                                                                                                       Q3               UA, F              25
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Fron6nElm

                                                                                                                                                                                                        Td2: hilt: A\ f 4. sun: z4; Laah bk
                                                                                                                                                                                                           I. terwfm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      B&     B        Z'C' i




                                                                                                                                                      SYMBOL           CODE , Q;[ Y                  BOTANICAL/ COMMON NAME CONT
                               SHEET
                               LP   102
                                                                                                                                                      SHRUBS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            riaea' KelsriF

                                                                                                                                                             1"-   i
                                                                                                                                                                       CS' I,;            78              el, e
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Kcd, oy, Dsn                      RedT,                ig Dog- oan                            SDI



                                                                                                                                                      DECIDUOUSSHRUBS
                               SUF,ot
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ikrbctis        Umbel                l 0' A) iii urde"
                               LP 103
                                                                                                                                                                                                       CommrkJai                     mit" IlcBubt.                     Tt}
                                                                                                                                                        1(    Ji        SIC               40                                                                                                         SRJ
                                                                                                                                                              i                                        Sd3; ZI: 2; AV llisun to pm sun: r-4; Utah-
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Lakewatcrtolcranr

                                                                                                                                                                                                       Eulklymu: i_ hhus soalp:.imus•

                                                                                                                                                         O             E C                             C' ompacr        So          min;              lamb

                                                                                                                                                                                                       nt., a, urre lug!, h.!! R; s. un to7JII:;. un;.:4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sg. i

                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ril.: ceeimreun

                                                                                                                                                                                                       Golden Curran
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sg. 1
                                                                                                                                                                       RAG                44           Sd • h; 4: AY' 12. 5; sun la pm oh, I, J;.. i1;
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Lnih     Labe         o: m. T mlt"' rant

                                                                                                                                                                                                       Rhaanrc fowl gutl' RAT Hails, Ft                                                        Ea
                                                                                                                                                                                                         inc- line B( b.Aoni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SO
                                                                                                                                                                                                        modr nie NS fall ID                                     il, l. n: r. 2: 1. heah L Ir.
                                                                                                                                                      0                RFR                72
                                                                                                                                                                                                     iltttrole- r.nor
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sphoc, beoolifirlia                             Ta. Gold' TM
                                                                                                                                                                       SB' G              SO           GhmGrl81.                    rchlnfSpirra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sg, l
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ockr. or; 3— In 3- 4; a, re par! SLJn; 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ibumunilpul-                       r;;        N: muni

                                                                                                                                                                                                       DwMf          European                     U' IJlhcnybu h

                                                                                                                                                      0                VOX        ,        r

                                                                                                                                                                                                       moo,, ur: 2x.} sun n, p.in chide; z3; ILllr
                                                                                                                                                                                                       L. aim- atenokranl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sg, l



                                                                                                                                                      EVERGREEN         SHRUBS
                                                                                                                                                                                                        KITTm:                 per.; l" t' m' fondhnm                             Stied
                                                                                                                                                                                                      1' Goulbl 1ns41rct
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 s'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I lirf Bo u-
                                                                                                                                                       0               ASW
                                                                                                                                                                                                       modcrne.
                                                                                                                                                                                                       I' uliuke.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I- 2r 1- 2;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        w: iton,                  nont
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        mn tom sb. ldt. f5;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    qg,. 1

                                                                                                                                                                                                      Jump             5; ibina.' Monrd TM

                                                                                                                                                        0              JS' 0              20           Moor          KRlaJunipct

                                                                                                                                                                                                        A_: 116 sun:: 2J: Lit!                                    e ._
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sg, J



                                                                                                                                                      GRASSFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Cal: umgrestis                     nacutitlora'                  Km      Incnor
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Fc: alhcrRa:                  dG I:&               Ss

                                                                                                                                                       O               CAl                rf1
                                                                                                                                                                                                      To-2: 4ti;
                                                                                                                                                                                                      rolenm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            P:\-     7 sun:             l-04;      Ulan       Loh    a:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    JPi


                                                                                                                                                                                                       P21i1Curn             nr rum'                  Shenandoah
                                                                                                                                                        F                                             Shcmndlflh    St- itchGms
                                                                                                                                                                           re             35                                                                                                        I g( .
                                                                                                                                                        l                  „                          Tw2: 4a2- I;` A 3; mnz4. t:ab 11,                                                 1, 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                      tokr. m,




                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ro) ai• Rndko'

                                                                                                                                                                                                      Double Knock Out Rose
                                                                                                                                                                       R
                                                                                                                                                                                                      modnne; 3- 4x3- 4; mu: i-.5: Umh I a!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5b. 1




                                                                                                                                         23
                                                                                                                           620040S1TH




                                                                                                                                               a `              a
                                                                                                                                                                                                            8                                  s              o '•



                                                                            I' A.




                                                                                                                                                                        I                                                                                              y




                                                         I         D
                                                                   0
                                                                                  I                     0

                                                                                                        o
                                                                                                            +.   (   hIo            p)
                                                                                                                                          II


                                                                                                                                           r                                                       iii                                             0                                                 ctlik
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        c}




         I                                                             fl   1 7                                        h
                                                                                                                                   LJ
                                                                                                                           f
                                        O     •,
                                                                                                                               r   ••
                                                                                                                                         i ebn                                       H00               Y1
                                                                                                                                                                                               r
                      i

                                                              GN
                                                                                                                                                                            a




                                                                                                                                                                    J

                                                                       0000e6                                    00000.:                                                                                         c::::   noeeoG   ``/                             WC           u:       J
         4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Z J1Hi1111111               111111

                          d   r6
                                                                                                                                                        C: Cin              dXJ

W                              a"'                                                                                                                      r
                                                                                                                                                                                     @ 9   Y
                               o
                                                                                                                                                            I

                                                                       7eeee110                                  00000p
f   '.


                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V




                                                                                                                                                                                                   x
                                                                                                                                                                                                       s„   l'




                                                                                                                               mom




                                                                       cx, i<i .,                                FreeOor
                                                                                                                                                                n                                                L000ae




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0000b          , '~                               r



                                                                                                                                                                                y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  e              a

                                                                       Ce00b                                     OPOi10C3                                                                                        t_:iu000d                                                              i_   ,
                          r                                                                                                                             mltul
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             s




                                                                       oe000b                                    eeeoeQ                         i.. r                       Cep,;:                               ooeoe6
                          a   tac                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            i
                                                                                                                                                                            JA7rm1
             6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    y,



                                                                                           wt.      A                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                            cur


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             rs




                                                                                                                                                                                    2.                                                                               Lc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             o
                                                                                             ro,


                                                                                                                                                                                                   w
                                                                                                   A,




             ip
                                   10441,         Hil.   01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0,
                                                                            s,>       r.   u                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                           YA'. F, AhvlP c4t[.• M. Yiti bxWEemc. r. c"


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       cta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Q;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             e




                 co




                                                                                                                                                 24
FIGURE 5


SSD—R—TAYLOR VILLAS PLAYGROUND AMENITIES



      ram,         s   °"'   3a5




                                                                                                                                                                                  y            4




                                                                                                         w




                                                                                                                                                                                                    U




                                                                      v

m.

                                                                            T'   r




                                                                                                                                      ran




                                                                                                                                                                                                   K' R.




                                                                  t



                                            em
                                                                           r4
                                   t,-.:,                                                                                                     1 ,.         e. yMYY
                                            in'"^
                                               a




                                                       I.
                                      t)"

                                                                           4 —              3_....   f
                                                    Y. Aa."   f                  1   :.,.                                                                            s.       }
                                                                                                                                                                                           q
                                                                                                             b!
                                                                      w:                                          i   i
                                                                                                                                        i-'          {+-             beat
                                                                                                                          u.. -. °'           Y.                                      w4
                                                                                                                                                                 f
                                                                                                                                                                          i
                                                                                                                                                                          A-




                                            V Zr:',
                                                 t;,-
                                                   ZiAt-tiMit''—

     104 !-:".-.,
             gym




                                                                                            25
