                                        TAYLORSVILLE,           UTAH
                                         ORDINANCE NO. 26- 06


   AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF TAYLORSVILLE APPROVING A ZONING
 TEXT AMENDMENT TO TITLE 13 OF THE TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE,
   AMENDING SECTION 13. 44. 040 RELATING TO THE MANNER OF HEIGHT
  MEASUREMENT FOR SINGLE- FAMILY ATTACHED BUILDINGS WITHIN THE
                         SSD- R TAYLOR            VILLAS ZONING DISTRICT




                WHEREAS, the Taylorsville            City Council (" Council") is the governing body of
the City of Taylorsville and is authorized to enact and amend land use ordinances pursuant to Utah
Code Annotated §      10- 9a- 101 et seq. and the Taylorsville Municipal Code; and

                WHEREAS, Chapter 13. 44 of the Taylorsville Municipal Code establishes the Site
Specific   Development —      Residential — Taylor Villas ( SSD-R Taylor Villas) Zoning District to
govern development standards for the Taylor Villas subdivision located at approximately 4002 W.
Festivus Ln.; and


                WHEREAS, Section 13. 44. 040 of the Taylorsville Municipal Code currently
provides that building height for all buildings in the district is measured from average finished
grade to the highest point of the roof; and

                WHEREAS, during building permit review and construction of single-family
attached townhouse buildings in the Taylor Villas subdivision, it was determined that the current
height measurement method, when applied to varying site grades, results in certain townhouse
buildings exceeding the maximum          permitted height of thirty- five feet( 35');   and


                WHEREAS,          requiring structural modifications or roof redesigns to achieve
compliance with the current measurement method would impose significant unnecessary costs on
the developer and delay completion of the project for no tangible benefit; and

               WHEREAS, the proposed amendment would modify the method of measuring
building height for single- family attached townhouse buildings only within the SSD- R Taylor
Villas Zoning District to align with the measurement method contained in the 2021 International
Residential   Code,   while   leaving the general      height   measurement     provisions      of §   13. 36. 030

unchanged for all other buildings and districts; and


               WHEREAS, the Taylorsville Planning Commission held a properly noticed public
hearing on the proposed zoning text amendment on April 28, 2026, at which no public comments
in opposition were received, and the Planning Commission voted 6- 0 to recommend approval of
the amendment; and


                WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the recommendation of the Planning
Commission,     the   staff   report,   Exhibit   A ( Proposed    Amendment),       and   all    other   relevant




                                                       4
information, and finds that the proposed amendment is consistent with the General Plan and is in
the best interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the residents of Taylorsville; and

               WHEREAS, the Council desires to approve the zoning text amendment as set forth
in Exhibit A, attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference.

                   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Taylorsville City Council as
follows:


                Section 1. Approval of Zoning Text Amendment. The zoning text amendment to
Title 13 of the Taylorsville Municipal Code, specifically amending Section 13. 44. 040 as set forth
in Exhibit A attached hereto, is hereby approved.

                   Section 2. Severability. If any provision of this Ordinance or its application to any
person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the Ordinance or the application of the
provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected.

               Section 3. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon
passage, approval by the Mayor, and publication or posting as required by law.

                                                                         L.
ADOPTED        by the Taylorsville City Council this                          day of     I'               2026.
                                                                                              ktuj    ,
        PASSED       AND APPROVED                   by the City Council of Taylorsville,             Utah, this    p`"
                                                                                                                     day of
                                          2026.
           frkft
                                                             TAYLORSVILLE                CITY COUNCIL




                                0
              VP0A' is%
     r v=
                                l    0,                      B       Knudse ,    Council         •

              SEAL
SE    ` (,,    ^      r'   '.
                                    1-1             VOTING:


                                                    Anna Barbieri                        Yea                 Nay
                                                    Ernest Burgess                 C     Yea                 Nay
                                                    Curt Cochran                  X.     Yea                 Nay
                                                    Meredith Harker               X      Yea                 Nay
                                                    Bob Knudsen                   X      Yea                 Nay


        PRESENTED               to the Mayor      of the   City of Taylorsville        for approval this     b ' day
     M.                                     2026.
       t


                                                                 5
      APPROVED      this   6,4' day of                              2026.
                                         Mixsii
                                                                         1C32
ATTEST:                                      Mayor Kristie S. Overson




Ja   Brooks, City Recorder

     DEPOSITED in the office of the      City Recorder   this   day of          2026.


     RECORDED       this    7   day of                              2026.




                                                  6
                                    EXHIBITA
                     Proposed Zoning TextAmendment to §13.44.040


13.44.040: ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN:
  A. Purpose AndIntent: Architectural design seekstoaddtocommunity character while
providing flexibility toavoidrigiduniformity ofdesign. Allelements including thescaleand
massofbuildings, materials, color, roofstyles, doorandwindow openings, anddetails should be
responsive tofunctional architectural design andpromote acohesive design statement. Building

height andprovide visualinterestatthestreetandsidewalk level.
   B. Single-Family Attached (townhomes): Architectural design, building massing, roofforms,
color, materials, orientation, andfenestration forsingle-familyattached dwellings (townhomes)
shallbeconsistent withorreasonably similar tothedesigns andfeatures shown inSection
                              R-
                                                                          R-Taylor Villas Site
Plan -                           schapter, theexterior elements onthesidesofthosesingle-
family attached units (calculated foreachbuilding façade) shallbecomprised ofnomore than
fiftypercent (50%)stucco finish, andshallhaveatleasttwenty percent (20%)brick/stone
coverage andatleastthirtypercent (30%)Hardie (orsimilar product) coverage. Developer
reserves therighttodetermine, onalotbylotbasis, whether toinclude abasement withthe
dwelling constructed oneachlot.
     1. Maximum Building Height: Thirty-Fivefeet (35'),measured fromaverage finished
        gradetotheaverage height ofthehighest roofsurface.
  C. Single-Family Detached: Architectural design, building massing, roofforms, color,
materials, orientation, andfenestration forsingle-family detached dwellings shall beconsistent
withorreasonably similar tothedesigns andfeatures shown inSection13.44.120, figure2C,
      R-Taylor VillasArchitectural Design -
Nosinglefamily detached homeshallhavethesame elevation styleasanyother homeonthe
samerow (blockface) ofsinglefamily detached homes. Developer reserves therightto
determine, onalotbylotbasis, whether toinclude abasement withthedwelling constructed on
eachlot.
     1.      D. Maximum Building Height: Thirty-Fivefeet (35'),measured fromaverage
          finished gradetothehighest pointoftheroof.
  E. Mechanical Units: Roof-mounted mechanical units (including evaporative coolers, HVAC
units, vents, etc.) shallbelocated orscreened sotheyarenotvisible from adjacent public and/or
private streets aswellasfromadjacent properties.
  F. Solar: Buildings maybedesigned andsitedtomaximize theuseofsolargainforenergy
savings, andshallrespect thesolar access requirements ofadjacent (existing andproposed)
buildings. Solarequipment ispermitted subject tothestandards setforthinsection 13.11.200of
thistitle. (Ord. 25-02,1-22-2025)


                                              7
