                                 TAYLORSVILLE,          UTAH
                                  ORDINANCE NO. 26- 04


      AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF TAYLORSVILLE AMENDING
     TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE TITLE 17. 02: FLOOD DAMAGE
                                      REGULATIONS


       WHEREAS, the Taylorsville City Council ( the " Council") met in regular session
on April 15, 2026, to discuss, among other things, updating Title 17. 02 Flood Damage
Prevention Regulations; and


       WHEREAS, The Utah State Legislature has delegated the responsibility to local
governments to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses.; and

       WHEREAS, the City of Taylorsville maintains flood damage prevention
regulations to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize
public and private losses due to flood conditions in specific areas, consistent with the
National Flood Insurance Program and applicable federal and state requirements; and


       WHEREAS, the existing regulations in Title 17. 02 were last substantially
amended by Ordinance No. 21- 01 on January 6, 2021, and the City has determined that
targeted updates are necessary to reflect current best practices, clarify certain provisions,
ensure continued compliance with FEMA standards, and address minor administrative
and technical revisions; and


       WHEREAS, the proposed amendments to Title 17. 02 are set forth in the
document titled " Title 17. 02 Flood Damage Prevention Regulations" a copy of which is
attached hereto as Exhibit " A" and incorporated herein by this reference; and

        WHEREAS, the effective management and updating of flood damage prevention
regulations is essential for protecting life, property, and the community' s tax base while
maintaining eligibility for federal flood insurance; and

        WHEREAS, after due consideration and public input, the Council has determined
that it is in the best interest of the general health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of
Taylorsville to approve the proposed amendments to Title 17. 02.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Taylorsville City Council that the
proposed amendments to Title 17. 02 Flood Damage Prevention Regulations of the
Taylorsville City Code, as set forth in Exhibit " A" attached hereto, are hereby approved.


        This Ordinance, assigned Ordinance No. 26- 04, shall take effect upon passage and
approval.
       PASSED AND APPROVED by the Taylorsville City Council this 15th day of
April 2026.




                                                  TAYLORSVILLE         CITY COUNCIL




                                         By: .&
                                                  BA Knudsen, Council Chair


SEAL                                      VOTING:


                                          Meredith Harker        Yea _)   Nay
                                          Ernest Burgess         Yea      Nay
                                          Anna Barbieri          Yea      Nay
                                          Curt Cochran           Yea      Nay
                                          Bob Knudsen            Yea      Nay

       PRESENTED to the Mayor of the City of Taylorsville for approval this 15t`
day of April 2026.


       APPROVED this 15th day of April 2026.


                                         By:
                                                   Mayor Kristie S. Overson
ATTEST:




          v
Betsy Valora, Deputy City Recorder



       DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 16th day of April 2026.

       RECORDED this 16th day of April 2026.




                                                                   Of
                  IMMI-
                      11


Title 17. 02 Flood Damage Prevention Regulations
CHAPTER 17. 02
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION REGULATIONS

SECTION:

17. 02. 010: Findings

17. 02. 020: Statement Of Purpose


17. 02. 030: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
17. 02. 040: Definitions


17. 02. 050: General Provisions

17. 02. 060: Administration


17. 02. 070: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction

17. 02. 080: Penalties   For Noncompliance




17. 02. 010: FINDINGS:


 A. The flood hazard areas are subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life
and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, and extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which
adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
 B.  These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains
which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by the occupancy of flood
hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous to other lands because they are
inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise protected from flood damage. ( Ord. 09-
31, 9- 16- 2009; amd. Ord. 21- 01, 1- 6- 2021)


C. The Utah State Legislature has delegated the responsibility to local governments to
adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses.

17. 02. 020: STATEMENT        OF PURPOSE:


It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare
and to minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by
provisions designed to:
 A.   Protect human life and health;

 B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
 C. Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with flooding and generally
undertaken at the expense of the general public;
  D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
  E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and gas mains; electric,
telephone, and sewer lines; streets and bridges located in floodplains;

  F. Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and development of
flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood blight areas; and
  G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood area. ( Ord. 09- 31,
9- 16- 2009; amd. Ord. 21- 01, 1- 6- 2021)




17. 02. 030: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:


In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following methods:
 A.    Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, or property in times of
flood, or cause excessive increases   in flood heights or velocities;

  B. Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which serve such uses, be
protected against flood damage at the time of initial construction;
  C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural protective
barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of floodwaters;

 D.    Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may increase flood
damage;

  E.
     Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will unnaturally divert
floodwaters, or which may increase flood hazards to other lands. ( Ord. 09- 31, 9- 16- 2009;
amd. Ord. 21- 01, 1- 6- 2021)




I WKIYA1111 DIN RIN 11021 IN 1M


Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall be
interpreted to give them the meanings they have in common usage and to give this chapter
its most reasonable application:


ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or similar
landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high velocity flows; active
processes of erosion, sediment transport, and deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.

APEX: A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow path of the major
stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan flooding can occur.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO, AH, or VO zone on a community' s flood
insurance rate map ( FIRM) with a one percent ( 1%) chance or greater annual chance of
flooding to an average depth of one to three feet ( T) where a clearly defined channel does
not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be
evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.

AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community subject
to a one percent ( 1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may be
designated as Zone A on the flood hazard boundary map ( FHBM). After detailed ratemaking
has been completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone A usually is refined
into zones A, AE, AH, AO, Al- 99, VO, V1- 30, VE or V.


BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent ( 1%)         chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.


BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade ( below ground level) on any
side.



CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood protection system,
without which the flood protection provided by the entire system would be compromised.

DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change in improved and unimproved real estate, including,
but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving,
excavation, or drilling operations or storage of equipment or materials.

ELEVATED BUILDING: A non -basement building: a) built, in the case of a building in zones
Al- 30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, to have the top of the elevated floor, or in the case
of a building in zones V1- 30, VE, or V, to have the bottom of the lowest horizontal structure
member of the elevated floor elevated above the ground level by means of pilings, columns
 posts and piers), or shear walls parallel to the floor of the water, and b) adequately
anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a flood of up to
the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of zones Al- 30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and
D, " elevated building" also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid foundation
perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of
floodwaters.


In the case of zones V1- 30, VE, or V, "elevated building" also includes a building otherwise
meeting the definition of "elevated building", even though the lower area is enclosed by
means of breakaway walls if the breakaway walls met the standards of section 60.3 ( e) ( 5)
of the national flood insurance program regulations.

EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining rates, structures for which the
 start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January
1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. " Existing construction" may also be referred
to as " existing structures".

EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the
manufactured homes are to be affixed ( including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities,
the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed ( including the installation of utilities, the
construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP ( FIRM): An official  map of a community, on which the
federal emergency management agency has delineated both the areas of special flood
hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community and all subsequent
amendments and revisions thereto.


FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal emergency
management agency. The report contains flood profiles, water surface elevation of the base
flood, as well as the flood boundary- floodway map.

FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
 A.    The overflow of inland or tidal waters.

  B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds have been
authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed specifically to
modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas within a community subject to a
 special flood hazard" and the extent of the depths of associated flooding. Such a system
typically includes hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These
specialized flood modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound
engineering   standards.


FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to, emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management regulations,

FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances ( such as a floodplain
ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control ordinance) and other applications of
police power. The term describes such state or local regulations, in any combination
thereof, which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.




FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source ( see definition of Flood or Flooding).
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions, changes, or
adjustments    to structures   which reduce or eliminate   flood damage to real estate or
improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY ( REGULATORY FLOODWAY): The channel of a river or other watercourse and
the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated height.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only
docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, and shipbuilding and ship repair facilities, but does not include long term
storage or related manufacturing facilities.

HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to
construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.

HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:

 A. Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places ( a listing maintained by
the department of interior) or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as
meeting the requirements for individual listing on the national register;
  B.  Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as contributing
to the historical significance of a registered historic district or a district preliminarily
determined by the secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
  C.        Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with historic
preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary of the interior; or
 D.  Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in communities with historic
preservation programs that have been certified either:
       1.    By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the interior, or
       2.    Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved programs.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and constructed
in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control, or divert the flow of
water to provide protection from temporary flooding.

LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or levees, and
associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are constructed and

operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.

LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area ( including basement). An
unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building
access, or storage in an area other than a basement area is not considered a building' s
lowest floor; provided, that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in
violation       of the applicable   non - elevation design requirement   of section 60. 3 of the national

flood insurance program regulations.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, which is built

on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent foundation
when connected to the required utilities. The term " manufactured             home" does not include a
 recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel ( or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two ( 2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.

MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the national
geodetic vertical datum ( NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base flood elevations
shown on a community's flood insurance rate map are referenced.

NEW CONSTRUCTION: For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures for
which the " start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date of an initial
FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures. For floodplain management purposes, " new
construction" means structures for which the " start of construction" commenced on or
after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and
includes any subsequent improvements          to such structures,

NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the
manufactured homes are to be affixed ( including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities,
the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community.

RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:

 A.   Built on a single chassis;

 B.   Four hundred ( 400) square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections;

 C.   Designed to be self- propelled or permanently towable by alight duty truck; and
 D.
      Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.

START OF CONSTRUCTION: For other than new construction or substantial improvements
under the coastal barrier resources act ( Pub. L. 97- 348), includes substantial improvement
and means the date the building permit was issued, provided, the actual start of
construction,   repair, reconstruction,   rehabilitation,   addition, placement, or other
improvement was within one hundred eighty ( 180) days of the permit date. The " actual
start" means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns,
or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/ or walkways; nor does
it include excavation for basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory
buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the " actual start of construction" means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, regardless of
whether the alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.

STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is
principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.

SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of
restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed fifty percent
 50%) of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.

SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent ( 50%) of the
market value of the structure before " start of construction" of the improvement. This
includes structures which have incurred " substantial damage", regardless of the actual

repair work performed. The term does not, however, include either:

 A. Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of state or
local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the local
code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary conditions, or
 B.   Any alteration of a " historic structure", provided, that the alteration will not preclude
the structure' s continued designation as a " historic structure".


VARIANCE: A grant of relief to a person from the requirement of this chapter when specific
enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance, therefore, permits
construction or development in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter. (For full
requirements see section 60. 6 of the national flood insurance program regulations.)

VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the
community' s floodplain management regulations. A structure or other development
without the elevation certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance
required in section 603( b)( 5), ( c)( 4), ( c)( 10), ( d)( 3), ( e)( 2), ( e)( 4), or ( e)( 5) of the national

flood insurance program regulations is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.

WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the national geodetic vertical
datum ( NGVD) of 1929 ( or other datum, where specified), of floods of various magnitudes
and frequencies     in the floodplains    of coastal or riverine areas. ( Ord. 09- 31, 9- 16- 2009; amd.
Ord. 21- 01, 1- 6- 2021)




17. 02. 050: GENERAL PROVISIONS:

 A.   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the jurisdiction of
the city.

 B.   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal emergency management
agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled, "The Flood Insurance Study For The
City Of Taylorsville", dated September 25, 2009, and all subsequent amendments and/ or
revisions thereto, with accompanying flood insurance rate maps and flood boundary-
floodway maps ( FIRM and FBFM) and any revisions thereto are hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.

  C. A flood plain encroachment permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
provisions of this chapter.
  D.        No structure   or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use changed
without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.

  E.
            This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements,
covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and another ordinance,
easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail,

  F. In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall be:
       1.    Considered as minimum requirements;

       2.    Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
       3.    Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state statutes.
 G.         The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable for
regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering considerations. On rare
occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood heights maybe increased by
manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of
special flood hazard or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood
damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the community or any official
or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder. ( Ord. 09- 31, 9- 16- 2009; amd. Ord. 2 1-
01, 1- 6- 2021)


H. This ordinance is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements,
covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this ordinance and other ordinance,
easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.

I. If any section, provision, or portion of this ordinance is adjudged unconstitutional or
invalid by a court, the remainder of the ordinance shall not be affected.



 A. The City Engineer or designee is hereby appointed the floodplain administrator to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate sections of
44 CFR ( national flood insurance program regulations) pertaining to floodplain
management.


 B.         Duties and responsibilities of the floodplain administrator shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
   1.    Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to the provisions
of this chapter.

   2.  Review permit applications to determine whether proposed building site, including
the placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe from flooding.
   3.    Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits required by
adoption of this chapter.

   4.    Review permits for proposed flood plain encroachment to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental agencies
 including section 404 of the federal water pollution control act amendments of 1972, 33
USC 1334) from which prior approval is required.
   S.    Where interpretation   is needed as to the exact location of the boundaries     of the
areas of special flood hazard ( for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a
mapped boundary and actual field conditions),      the floodplain administrator shall make the

necessary interpretation.
   6.    Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state coordinating
agency that is the NFIP coordinator, prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse,
and submit evidence of such notification to the federal emergency management agency.

   7. Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated portion of any
watercourse is maintained.

   8.    When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance with subsection
17. 02. 05013 of this chapter, the floodplain administrator   shall obtain, review and

reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available from a federal,
state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of this section.
   9.    When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the floodplain administrator
must require that no new construction,     substantial   improvements,   or other development

 including fill) shall be permitted within zones Al- 30 and AE on the community's FIRM,
unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water
surface elevation of the base flood at any point within the community.

   10.    Under the provisions of 44 CFR chapter 1, section 65. 12, of the national flood
insurance program regulations, a community may, but is not obligated to, approve certain
development in zones Al- 30, AE, AH, on the community' s FIRM which increases the water
surface elevation of the base flood by more than one foot ( 1'), provided, that the
community first applies for a conditional FIRM revision through FEMA ( conditional letter
of map revision).

 C. Application for a flood plain encroachment permit shall be presented to the floodplain
administrator on forms furnished by him/ her and may include, but not be limited to, plans
in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and elevation of proposed
landscape alterations, existing and proposed structures, including the placement of
manufactured homes, and the location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood
hazard. Additionally, the following information is required:
      1.
            Elevation ( in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all new and substantially improved structures;
      2.    Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential structure shall be
floodproofed;

      3.    A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect that the
nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing criteria of subsection
17. 02. 070B of this chapter;

      4.    Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural drainage will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development;
      5.    Maintain a record of all such information   in accordance   with subsection   B of this
section.



 D.        A flood plain encroachment permit by the floodplain administrator maybe denied
based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the following relevant factors:
      1.    The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      2.    The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood damage and the
effect of such damage on the individual owner;

      3.    The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of others;
      4.    The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated development;
      5.    The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and emergency
vehicles;



      6.    The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood conditions
including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems;
      7.    The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment transport of the
floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable, expected at the site;

      8.    The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where applicable;
      9.
            The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding or erosion damage,
for the proposed use;
      10.    The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for that area.

11. The Base Flood Elevation will be increased at any location within the community.
 E.        1. The appeal authority shall hear and render judgment on requests for variances from
the requirements of this chapter.
   2.  The appeal authority shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when it is
alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination made by the
floodplain administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.

   3.    Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the appeal authority may appeal
such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   4. The floodplain administrator shall maintain a record of all actions involving an
appeal and shall report variances to the federal emergency management agency upon
request.


   S.  Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or restoration of
structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or the State Inventory of
Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   6.    Variances maybe issued for new construction and substantial improvements to be
erected on a lot of one- half ( 1/2) acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots
with existing structures constructed below the base flood level, providing the relevant
factors in this section have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-
half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.

   7.    Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this chapter, the
appeal authority may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems
necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this chapter.
   8.  Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   9. Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure' s
continued designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to
preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   10.     Prerequisites for granting variances:

        a. Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance is the
minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.

        b. Variances shall only be issued upon:
           1)   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
          2)
           A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional
hardship to the applicant; and
          3)
           A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood
heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create nuisances,
cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or
ordinances.
        Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice that the
            c.


structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor elevation below the base flood
elevation, and that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased
risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor elevation,
       11.        Variances maybe issued by       community for new construction and substantial
improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of a functionally
dependent use provided that:

            a.    The criteria outlined in subsections   El through E9 of this section are met, and

            b.    The structure or other development is protected by methods that minimize flood
damages during the base flood and create no additional threats to public safety. (Ord. 09-
31, 9- 16- 2009; amd. Ord. 21- 01, 1- 6- 2021)




17. 02. 070: PROVISIONS            FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:

  A.        New Construction and Substantial Improvements: In all areas of special flood hazard,
the following provisions are required for all new construction and substantial
improvements:


       1.        All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed ( or modified)
and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
       2.        All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed by methods
and practices that minimize flood damage;
       3.        All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed with
materials resistant to flood damage;

       4.        All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed with
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other service
facilities that are designed and/ or located to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of flooding with a minimum elevation of one foot
 1')    above the base flood elevation;

       5.        All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;

       6.        New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration          of floodwaters   into the system and discharge from the systems into
floodwaters; and

       7.        On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding,
  B. Floodproofing Requirements: In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood
elevation data has been provided as set forth in: 1) subsection 17. 02. 05013 of this chapter,
2) subsection 17. 02. 060138 of this chapter, or 3) subsection C3 of this section, the following
provisions are required:
   1.  Residential Construction: New construction and substantial improvement of any
residential structure shall have the lowest floor ( including basement) elevated to or above
the base flood elevation plus one foot (1'). A registered professional engineer, architect, or
land surveyor shall submit a certification to the floodplain administrator      that the standard
of this subsection as proposed in subsection 17. 02. 060C of this chapter is satisfied.
   2.        Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial improvements of any
commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest floor
  including basement) elevated to or above the base flood elevation plus one foot ( V) or
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so that below the base
flood level the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water and with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or
architect shall develop and/ or review structural design, specifications, and plans for the
construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of construction are in
accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined in this subsection. A record of
such certification which includes the specific elevation ( in relation to mean sea level) to
which such structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the floodplain
administrator.



   3.  Enclosures: New construction and substantial improvements, with fully enclosed
areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access
or storage in an area other than a basement and which are subject to flooding shall be
designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum         criteria:



     a. A minimum of two ( 2) openings having a total net area of not less than one square
inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided.
        b.    The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot ( V) above grade.

        c.    Openings maybe equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other coverings or
devices, provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
   4.        Manufactured Homes:


         Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a community' s
        a.


FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices which minimize flood
damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and
anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may
include, but are not limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This
requirement is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for
resisting wind forces.
           b.
       Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved within
zones Al- 30, AH, and AE on the community' s FIRM on sites: 1) outside of a manufactured
home park or subdivision, 2) in a new manufactured home park or subdivision, 3) in an
expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision, or 4) in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision on which a manufactured home has incurred
substantial damage" as a result of a flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such
that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated to or above the base flood
elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.

           c.
                 Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially improved on sites in
an existing manufactured home park or subdivision with zones Al- 30, AH and AE on the
community' s FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of this subsection B4 be elevated
so that either:


                 1)   The lowest floor of the manufactured        home is at or above the base flood
elevation,            or



                 2)
          The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than thirty six inches
 36")           in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored
foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.

      S.        Recreational Vehicles: Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites within
zones Al- 30, AH, and AE on the community' s FIRM either:
           a.
                 Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty ( 180) consecutive days,
           b.     Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or
        Meet the permit requirements of subsection 17. 02. 060C of this chapter, and the
           c.


elevation and anchoring requirements for "manufactured homes" in subsection B4 of this
section. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking
system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices
and has no permanently attached additions.
 C.        Subdivisions:


      1.        All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home parks and
subdivisions               shall be consistent with subsections   A and B of this section.

      2.
      All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the placement of
manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet flood plain encroachment permit
requirements of subsections 17.02.050C and 17.02. 060C of this chapter; and the provisions
of this section.

      3.
      Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals and other
proposed development, including the placement of manufactured home parks and
subdivisions which is greater than fifty ( 50) lots or five ( 5) acres, whichever is lesser, if not
otherwise provided pursuant to subsection 17. 02. 06013 of this chapter or subsection B of
this        section.



   4. All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
       5.
      All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.


  D. Areas of Shallow Flooding: Located within the areas of special flood hazard
established in subsection 17. 02. 05013 of this chapter are areas designated as shallow
flooding. These areas have special flood hazard associated with base flood depths of one to
three feet ( 3')
               where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of
flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following provisions apply:
       1.     All new construction and substantial improvements of residential structures have
the lowest floor ( including basement) elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least as
high as the depth number specified in feet on the community' s FIRM ( at least 2 feet if no
depth number is specified).

      1       All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential structures:


    a. Have the lowest floor ( including basement) elevated above the highest adjacent
grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet on the community' s FIRM ( at
least 2 feet if no depth number is specified);     or



    b. Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be designed so that below the
base flood level the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads or effects of buoyancy.
      3.
       A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a certification to the
floodplain administrator that the standards of this section, as proposed in subsection
17. 02. 060C of this chapter, are satisfied.

      4.
       Require within zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around structures on
slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
 E.         Floodways: Located within areas of special flood hazard established in subsection
17. 02. 050E of this chapter, are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an
extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which carry debris, potential
projectiles, and erosion potential, the following provisions shall apply:
      1.
      Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory floodway unless it
has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in
accordance with standard engineering practice that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in flood levels within the community during the occurrence of the
base flood discharge.

    2.   If subsection   El of this section is satisfied, all new construction   and substantial
improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this
section.



    3. Under the provisions of 44 CFR chapter 1, section 65. 12, of the national flood
insurance regulations, a community may permit encroachments within the adopted
regulatory floodway that would result in an increase in base flood elevations, provided,
that the community first applies for a conditional FIRM and floodway revision through
FEMA. ( Ord. 09- 31, 9- 16- 2009; amd. Ord. 21- 01,, 1- 6- 2021)




i


No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed,        located, extended, converted, or altered
without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
Violation of the provisions of this chapter by failure to comply with any of its requirements
 including violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with
conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not more than
one thousand dollars ($ 1, 000. 00) or imprisoned for not more than six ( 6) months, or both,
for each violation, and in addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. ( Ord, 09- 31, 9- 16- 2009; amd. Ord, 2 1- 01, 1-
6- 2021)
