St. George, UT - Arts and Culture
Government
City Council Meetings
Agendas and Minutes
Public Comments
Public Notices
City Codes and Ordinances
Code Enforcement
City Hall at Town Square
Slide St. George
City News
Inside St. George
Inside St. George Newsletter
Online Articles
Calendars and Events
Press Releases
Opt-In For City Alerts
Parks and Community Services Newsletter
St. George Museum of Art Newsletter
Contact the City
City Directory
Facility Directory
Report an Issue or Outage
Records Request | GRAMA
Mayor and Council Members
Mayor Jimmie Hughes
City Council Members
Election Information
Mission | Vision | Values
About St. George
State of the City
Other Boards and Commissions
Agendas and Minutes
Youth City Council
Departments
Budget and Finance
Bid Opportunities
City Budget
Financial Reporting
Purchasing and Procurement
City Attorney's Office
City Codes and Ordinances
Traffic School
City Manager's Office
City Manager John Willis
City Recorder's Office
Government Affairs
Business Plan Dashboard
Special Event/Film Permit Application
Community Development
Building Department
Business Licensing
Planning and Zoning
Code Enforcement
Economic Development
Communications & Marketing
Coming Soon to St. George
2040 Downtown Plan
Energy Services
Fire Department
Burn Permit Information
Fireworks Information
Human Resources
Career Opportunities
Employee Benefits
Operations
Maps | GIS Division
Police Department
#IamSGPD
File a Police Report
Animal Services | Shelter
Community Focus Teams
Parks and Community Services
Park Planning
Trails, Parks & Recreation G.O.  Bond
Newsletter
Public Works
Engineering
Streets Division
Stormwater
Utilities
Pay My Utility Bill
Apply for Utility Service
Disconnect Utility Service
Report an Issue or Outage
Water Services
Services
How do I...
Pay My Utility Bill
Apply for Utility Service
Disconnect Utility Services
Report an Issue or Outage
Apply for or Renew a Business License
Contact Code Enforcement
Submit Information Requests
St. George Regional Airport (SGU)
Flight Schedules
Ground Transportation
Parking
Hangar Opportunities
Cemeteries
St. George City Cemetery
Tonaquint Cemetery
Tonaquint Cremation Garden
City Business Center
Bid Opportunities
Business Licensing
CitizenServe Portal
Suntran Bus System
Suntran Utah App
Routes | Schedules (PDF)
Fares and Passes
Advertising Information
Garbage and Recycling
BluCan Recycling Program
Curbside Pickup Schedule
Report an Issue
Reuse Center
County Landfill Info
Events
Featured Events
Dixie Days Celebration
In The Parks Series
Parks and Recreation Month
St. George Marathon
St. George Art Festival
Races
More City Events...
Active Transportation
Community Bike Ride
Roll with Patrol
Event Calendars
City Event Calendar
GreaterZion.com
Community Event Calendar
SGR Races
Race Calendar
Tourism Information
GreaterZion.com
Rec | Arts | Parks
Parks | Trails
View Parks
Parks Map
Trail Explorer Map
Bike Routes
Reserve a Park Amenity
Thunder Junction All Abilities Park
City Cemeteries
Golf
Book a Tee Time
City Golf Courses
Sports | Recreation
2026 Summer Guide
Recreation Facilities
SGR Races
Sports | Programs
Pickleball
Tennis
Arts | Culture
St. George Art Festival
Museum of Art
Arts Facilities
City Hall Mural
Search Results
Forms
All of St. George
Forms
Related Pages
General Plan Home
Mayor's Message
Lifestyle
Responsible Growth
Economic Vitality
Transportation
Connection to Nature
Arts and Culture
Thriving Downtown
Land Use Map
Home
Departments
Community Development
General Plan
St. George General Plan
Arts and Culture
Arts and Culture
St. George has a wealth of history, from the unparalleled geological splendor that surrounds the city to our Native American and Utah Pioneer heritage. Ever since pioneers founded the city in 1861, world-class artists have chosen to make St. George their home, capturing the beauty and culture of our city in every artistic medium. Today, a robust number of artrelated programs support our artistic community. While the abundance of opportunities to integrate, express, and interact with art and culture within the city should be celebrated, these opportunities should be expanded.
CELEBRATE THE HISTORY OF BOTH THE SOUTHERN UTAH PIONEER AND NATIVE AMERICAN HERITAGE OF ST. GEORGE
a. Highlight the Pioneer heritage through the preservation of historic pioneer buildings.
i. Support and incentivize historic preservation within St. George.
ii. Highlight historic buildings through branding, wayfinding, and signage.
b. Preserve and protect archaeological features for future generations.
i. Create a Cultural Resource Interpretive Plan and Policy to guide protection of current and future cultural resources and archaeological sites.
ii. iii. iv. v. Identify sensitive archaeological sites that are publicly known and create a strategy to support the preservation and protection of these sites and elements. Integrate these sites into a Cultural Resource Interpretive Plan as noted. Create a mechanism for protecting cultural sites that are not publicly known, without introducing them to the public to support their preservation. Consider strategies to cluster development to support the preservation of these sites for future generations. Consult with local archaeologists on how to best protect and preserve archaeological features.
c. Use park and trail network improvements to provide connections to the Native American and geological heritage of St. George.
i. ii. Create an archeology exhibit at Confluence Park. Use the Cultural Resource Interpretive Plan to guide improvements and access to unique cultural sites within St. George. Use this plan to guide the location of markers, telescope locations, and interpretive signage within the City and along trail networks to identify known and visible archaeological sites.
PRESERVE LANDMARK HISTORIC BUILDINGS
a. Continue to provide local incentives to encourage owners to maintain or pursue local landmark status. These incentives promote the preservation of historic buildings by expanding the potential use of historic homes, such as converting to commercial services and improving structures as necessary to ensure protection.
b. Encourage new development in historic character areas to complement, not replicate, historic features. c. Create a downtown national historic district to increase awareness and interest in our historic past.
PROMOTE OPPORTUNITIES FOR ART INTEGRATION THROUGHOUT THE CITY
a. Continue and expand art collaborations and programs such as the Art Around the Corner program with artwork integration, live performances, and interpretive signage in public spaces.
b. Promote art integration throughout the city by integrating art onto and within city infrastructure.
i. Electrical boxes, bridges, underpasses, walls, etc., are excellent opportunities for art integration into public infrastructure: promote these opportunities to local and regional artists, and encourage them to submit proposals for the transformation of city property via artwork.
ii. iii. iv. Ensure that the new City Hall building will include artwork of various mediums, creating an “arts destination” in the heart of the Arts District. Encourage community involvement through “hands-on” contributions to artwork (such as murals, mosaics, handprints similar to those at All-Abilities Park, etc.) to be integrated onto city properties. Identify new opportunities to install art (sculptures, 3D artwork, etc.) along trails and in city parks through continued utilization of the Art Around the Corner program.
c. Allow property owners to activate blank, non-historic building surfaces with murals and other art forms.
i. Murals can connect art and history and facilitate public engagement in a vibrant and accessible way.
ii. Partner with arts organizations (i.e., Art Around the Corner, Arts Commission, etc.) to offer awards/citations to property owners who best exemplify a commitment to community engagement through the addition of exterior art.
d. Support the Arts District as the public and performing arts center within St. George.
i. Consider expanding Concert in the Park and Movie in the Park schedules to offer at least one movie and one concert monthly at indoor or outdoor venues.
ii. iii. Provide increased opportunities within the Arts District for local performers to showcase their talents. Utilize sites at the new City Hall at Town Square (indoor civic space, outdoor plaza) as performance venues, art reception areas, etc.
e. Implement the vision for Arts and Culture within the Downtown. Align with goals identified in the Downtown Area Plan.
i. ii. iii. Expand offerings and programs at the Museum Arts Campus on N. Main Street to extend the downtown arts footprint. Utilize Social Hall and Opera House as premiere locations for arts activities including community events (potential remodel/repurpose of the Opera House and Social Hall to serve the community and dynamic events). In conjunction with the Trails, Parks & Recreation Bond, the construction of two new outdoor performance stages at Vernon Worthen Park and the historic Town Square will enhance this footprint. The outdoor stages can be utilized for city events like movies and concerts in the park, as well as enhance opportunities for local artists and performances. Improve facilities and equipment in the Electric Theater center to help promote this venue as a world-class destination for film and theater presentations in a historic theater.
Share this page
Share this page
×
Copy and paste this code into your website.
<a href="http://sgcityutah.gov/departments/community_development/st._george_general_plan/arts_and_culture.php">Your Link Name</a>
Share this page on your favorite Social network
Facebook
Twitter
Reddit
Close
City Hall Hours
Monday - Friday | 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
Employee eNet Login
Privacy Notice
Contact Us | Report Issue
Translate
English
Afrikaans
Albanian
Arabic
Armenian
Azerbaijani
Basque
Belarusian
Bengali
Bosnian
Bulgarian
Catalan
Cebuano
Chinese (Simplified)
Chinese (Traditional)
Croatian
Czech
Danish
Dutch
Esperanto
Estonian
Filipino
Finnish
French
Galician
Georgian
German
Greek
Gujarati
Haitian Creole
Hausa
Hebrew
Hindi
Hmong
Hungarian
Icelandic
Igbo
Indonesian
Irish
Italian
Japanese
Javanese
Kannada
Khmer
Korean
Lao
Latin
Latvian
Lithuanian
Macedonian
Malay
Maltese
Maori
Marathi
Mongolian
Nepali
Norwegian
Persian
Polish
Portuguese
Punjabi
Romanian
Russian
Serbian
Slovak
Slovenian
Somali
Spanish
Swahili
Swedish
Tamil
Telugu
Thai
Turkish
Ukrainian
Urdu
Vietnamese
Welsh
Yiddish
Yoruba
Zulu
City Directory
61 S. Main St.
St. George, UT 84770
P: 435-627-4000
Powered by
revize.,
the Government Website Experts
Login
Close Button
SECTION CONTENT GOES HERE
Close
Read More
