St. George, UT - Responsible Growth
Government
City Council Meetings
Agendas and Minutes
Public Comments
Public Notices
City Codes and Ordinances
Code Enforcement
City Hall at Town Square
Slide St. George
City News
Inside St. George
Inside St. George Newsletter
Online Articles
Calendars and Events
Press Releases
Opt-In For City Alerts
Parks and Community Services Newsletter
St. George Museum of Art Newsletter
Contact the City
City Directory
Facility Directory
Report an Issue or Outage
Records Request | GRAMA
Mayor and Council Members
Mayor Jimmie Hughes
City Council Members
Election Information
Mission | Vision | Values
About St. George
State of the City
Other Boards and Commissions
Agendas and Minutes
Youth City Council
Departments
Budget and Finance
Bid Opportunities
City Budget
Financial Reporting
Purchasing and Procurement
City Attorney's Office
City Codes and Ordinances
Traffic School
City Manager's Office
City Manager John Willis
City Recorder's Office
Government Affairs
Business Plan Dashboard
Special Event/Film Permit Application
Community Development
Building Department
Business Licensing
Planning and Zoning
Code Enforcement
Economic Development
Communications & Marketing
Coming Soon to St. George
2040 Downtown Plan
Energy Services
Fire Department
Burn Permit Information
Fireworks Information
Human Resources
Career Opportunities
Employee Benefits
Operations
Maps | GIS Division
Police Department
#IamSGPD
File a Police Report
Animal Services | Shelter
Community Focus Teams
Parks and Community Services
Park Planning
Trails, Parks & Recreation G.O.  Bond
Newsletter
Public Works
Engineering
Streets Division
Stormwater
Utilities
Pay My Utility Bill
Apply for Utility Service
Disconnect Utility Service
Report an Issue or Outage
Water Services
Services
How do I...
Pay My Utility Bill
Apply for Utility Service
Disconnect Utility Services
Report an Issue or Outage
Apply for or Renew a Business License
Contact Code Enforcement
Submit Information Requests
St. George Regional Airport (SGU)
Flight Schedules
Ground Transportation
Parking
Hangar Opportunities
Cemeteries
St. George City Cemetery
Tonaquint Cemetery
Tonaquint Cremation Garden
City Business Center
Bid Opportunities
Business Licensing
CitizenServe Portal
Suntran Bus System
Suntran Utah App
Routes | Schedules (PDF)
Fares and Passes
Advertising Information
Garbage and Recycling
BluCan Recycling Program
Curbside Pickup Schedule
Report an Issue
Reuse Center
County Landfill Info
Events
Featured Events
Dixie Days Celebration
In The Parks Series
Parks and Recreation Month
St. George Marathon
St. George Art Festival
Races
More City Events...
Active Transportation
Community Bike Ride
Roll with Patrol
Event Calendars
City Event Calendar
GreaterZion.com
Community Event Calendar
SGR Races
Race Calendar
Tourism Information
GreaterZion.com
Rec | Arts | Parks
Parks | Trails
View Parks
Parks Map
Trail Explorer Map
Bike Routes
Reserve a Park Amenity
Thunder Junction All Abilities Park
City Cemeteries
Golf
Book a Tee Time
City Golf Courses
Sports | Recreation
2026 Summer Guide
Recreation Facilities
SGR Races
Sports | Programs
Pickleball
Tennis
Arts | Culture
St. George Art Festival
Museum of Art
Arts Facilities
City Hall Mural
Search Results
Forms
All of St. George
Forms
Related Pages
General Plan Home
Mayor's Message
Lifestyle
Responsible Growth
Economic Vitality
Transportation
Connection to Nature
Arts and Culture
Thriving Downtown
Land Use Map
Home
Departments
Community Development
General Plan
St. George General Plan
Responsible Growth
Responsible Growth
St. George has the space and capacity to grow. Through effective planning, St. George will ensure growth occurs responsibly.
To ensure responsible growth into the future, St. George will:
2.1 STRENGTHEN AND BROADEN WATER CONSERVATION EFFORTS
a. Continue to support water conservation policies and standards for efficiency in new development and improvements across the city. These will be consistent with and updated in alignment with the Washington County Water Conservancy District (WCWCD).
i. ii. iii. iv. Continue to support a tiered fee structure to encourage conservation. These rate structures encourage efficiency, while ensuring the affordability of water for essential uses. Develop tools and incentives that invite and encourage the community to participate in water conservation programs.  Provide educational opportunities designed to invite acceptance and compliance from the community while helping residents understand that responsible water use is a critical choice when living in a desert environment. New developments that enact additional water conservation efforts and demonstrate alignment with community goals will be prioritized.
b. Support water conservation by collaborating with WCWCD and/or providing incentives for water use reduction improvements and retrofits for existing properties.
i. Renovations and retrofits on existing structures will trigger compliance with new construction policies.
c. Set a water conservation target (per capita) and track utilization to support and guide water conservation efforts within the city.
d. Collaborate with the WCWCD to develop and implement a region-wide water reuse plan. The plan consists of:
i. The expansion of a pressurized secondary irrigation system for properties within St. George per the City’s Secondary irrigation Master Plan.
ii. iii. iv. The expansion of the St. George Regional Water Reclamation Facility (SGRWRF) Type I Reuse Facility and the construction of reuse reservoirs with a goal of reuse production optimization. Replacement of agricultural irrigation water with Type I reuse water. Development of an indirect potable reuse plan.
e. Provide clear and effective information to the community to expand knowledge of water conservation programs, incentives, goals, and needs.
f. Continue to work collaboratively with the Washington County Water Conservancy District and surrounding communities to support water conservation efforts.
g. Collaborate with the WCWCD in the development, updates, adoption, and implementation of:
i. WCWCD 20-Year Plan Water Supply Plan
ii. iii. iv. WCWCD Water Conservation Plan WCWCD Regional Water Master Plan WCWCD Regional Reuse Plan
2.2 INCREASE ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND PROMOTE RENEWABLE ENERGY IN NEW DEVELOPMENT AND  STANDALONE PROJECTS
a. Adopt energy conservation policies to set a standard for efficiency in new development and improvements across the city.
b. Support energy efficiency by adopting best practice standards for new buildings and providing incentives for existing properties.
c. Support renewable energy and energy diversification projects to minimize risks for St. George per the St. George Power 10-Year Master Plan.
i. ii. iii. Support infill development to limit land use impacts of growth. Support sensitive land preservation by allowing the transference of density rights to developed areas of the city. Support reinvestment in existing residential areas by allowing gentle increases in density within existing neighborhoods.
2.3 INCREASE AND DIVERSIFY HOUSING SUPPLY ACROSS THE CITY
a. Ensure Neighborhood Areas integrate a variety of housing sizes and options through code amendments and aligning with the Moderate Income Housing Plan.
b. Consider updating zoning code to increase options for the development of mixed density developments.
i. Continue to allow accessory dwelling units by-right across appropriate residential zone districts.
ii. Consider expanding opportunities for additional accessory dwelling units in certain areas of the city.
b. Support reinvestment in existing residential areas with the Residential Plus land use designation by allowing increased density or a mix of uses to support reinvestment and promote attainable housing.
c. Allow for more density by-right in appropriate areas.
i. Consider allowing mixed-use by-right in commercial zone districts with commercial or active use requirements at the ground floor.
2.4 PROMOTE CONVENIENT COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT THROUGHOUT THE CITY
a. Ensure the land use plan and Neighborhood Area Plans promote neighborhood commercial centers that support daily services. Align with goals identified in Lifestyle.
b. Support a mix of commercial and residential uses with an appropriate scale within neighborhood commercial centers.
i. Consider live/work and diverse and vibrant horizontal and vertical mixed-use opportunities.
2.5 DEVELOP PEOPLE-ORIENTED NEIGHBORHOOD CENTERS THAT ARE ACCESSIBLE, COMFORTABLE, AND SAFE
a. Integrate a requirement for usable open space into neighborhood-oriented commercial areas.
i. Encourage pocket parks, trail connections, and outdoor dining areas within the neighborhood-oriented commercial areas.
b. Connect transit services to neighborhood centers.
c. Update zoning code to prioritize pedestrian access and visibility.
d. Update zoning code to encourage street-facing development and minimize surface parking fronting the street.
2.6 ALIGN GROWTH WITH INFRASTRUCTURE
a. Prioritize infrastructure improvements in areas that are envisioned to have more compact development and provide a mix of housing options.
i. ii. Support infill development to limit land use impacts of growth. Support sensitive land preservation by allowing clustering of density on nonsensitive land in all sensitive land areas of the city.
b. Support Washington County School District as they seek to secure adequate space for education facility siting.
c. Ensure St. George City can provide adequate utility infrastructure as growth occurs within the city. i. Complete an assessment of existing infrastructure and identify areas with sufficient infrastructure for growth, and areas to invest in.
ii. Plan new infrastructure for future land use and compact development.
d. Support opportunities for low-impact local food production.
i. Adopt policies to support urban agriculture, aquaculture, vertical gardens, and other efficient food production infrastructure in strategic zone districts.
e. Expand transportation infrastructure, including trails and active transportation systems with growth. Align with goals identified in Accessible City.
2.7 LAND USE PLAN
The Land Use Plan has been updated to reflect the current vision for growth for St. George City as well as the recent planned developments that exist within the City. This plan is a living document that can and should be updated as the vision for growth in St. George evolves.
The Land Use Plan indicates general density ranges and indicates how development is to be located on the land, with special regard to reserving special natural features. The Zones in the Zoning Map are legal designations that assign a specific overall density to a specific tract of land. In most cases, the zoning is uniformly applied to a whole parcel of land. By contrast, the Land Use Plan follows landforms, floodplains and road patterns (rather than ownership boundaries) it indicates more generally how land uses should be arranged on the land.
The following land uses have been identified for the city.
Share this page
Share this page
×
Copy and paste this code into your website.
<a href="http://sgcityutah.gov/departments/community_development/st._george_general_plan/responsible_growth.php">Your Link Name</a>
Share this page on your favorite Social network
Facebook
Twitter
Reddit
Close
City Hall Hours
Monday - Friday | 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
Employee eNet Login
Privacy Notice
Contact Us | Report Issue
Translate
English
Afrikaans
Albanian
Arabic
Armenian
Azerbaijani
Basque
Belarusian
Bengali
Bosnian
Bulgarian
Catalan
Cebuano
Chinese (Simplified)
Chinese (Traditional)
Croatian
Czech
Danish
Dutch
Esperanto
Estonian
Filipino
Finnish
French
Galician
Georgian
German
Greek
Gujarati
Haitian Creole
Hausa
Hebrew
Hindi
Hmong
Hungarian
Icelandic
Igbo
Indonesian
Irish
Italian
Japanese
Javanese
Kannada
Khmer
Korean
Lao
Latin
Latvian
Lithuanian
Macedonian
Malay
Maltese
Maori
Marathi
Mongolian
Nepali
Norwegian
Persian
Polish
Portuguese
Punjabi
Romanian
Russian
Serbian
Slovak
Slovenian
Somali
Spanish
Swahili
Swedish
Tamil
Telugu
Thai
Turkish
Ukrainian
Urdu
Vietnamese
Welsh
Yiddish
Yoruba
Zulu
City Directory
61 S. Main St.
St. George, UT 84770
P: 435-627-4000
Powered by
revize.,
the Government Website Experts
Login
Close Button
SECTION CONTENT GOES HERE
Close
Read More
